ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance. I give the floor to Mrs Leijten as the first speaker on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. The world of taxation is extremely complicated. If you have money, like a multinational, you can hire or hire the most expensive advisors to pay as little tax as possible. That goes like this: through all kinds of accounting tricks with companies and subsidiaries, you pretend the profit you make is much smaller than it is. The Dutch tax system offers many ways; the trickbox is very extensive. And as a company you always have the certainty that if a particular trick is not allowed anymore, a new construction will be created. Internationally we are tapped on the fingers, the construction is cut off the head and then three more come back for it. This trickbox of load can dodge and dodge, is renewed time and time again. Smart tax advisors lobby at the ministry or even advise the ministry. There is the lobby of companies and there is a government that has deliberately made fiscal attractiveness at the heart of its policy. Because companies can pretend to make less profits, they actually pay only 5% or 7%, while 25% applies. The consequences are great, because the fact that companies are lured to pay as little tax as possible leads to 4,500 billion going through our country every year. This is done by companies that have no other purpose than to avoid tax. The Netherlands is under attack for this. The Secretary of State gets angry at the Commissioner who said: The Netherlands is a fiscal black hole. But the fact is that since the outbreak of the crisis in 2008, the money that sucks through the Netherlands has increased by 75%. Other countries growl to the Netherlands, because because of the constructions in the Netherlands, no tax is paid there. The Netherlands is being attacked, but we must not know. The IKEA construction is no good. We can read that in the paper. The European Commission has examined it, but we are not even getting a technical briefing. Trying to pay less taxes isn't something to be proud of. Does the Secretary of State agree? Should we want the Tax Administration to help them to pay less tax? Then the Secretary of State says that there are some of those tax deals that they call rulings...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But when one of them goes public, there's always shit on the marble. It's always not true. When a WOB request is made by a professor or a journalist, it is always wrong and the Ministry is always aware that the practice is wrong, wrong and goes beyond the bounds of international agreements and therefore there is no evasion anymore but evasion. And now the Secretary of State says, "I want to do something about it." I would like to believe the Secretary of State, but that's quite difficult if you see the list of all those WOB reports and all those tax deals that are going to be public and when you look at how we're under international fire. So I'd actually like to ask this Secretary of State a sign of goodwill. Is he prepared to publish, although anonymously, the tax arrangements that are being made? Other countries are already doing that, so we can do it. Is the Secretary of State also prepared to allow Members of Parliament, perhaps in the form of a special committee on this matter, to have access to these tax arrangements? I am not thinking of a so-called independent research group or a so-called independent government research service, but of MPs, so that we can see it. Furthermore, is the Secretary of State prepared to stop all this lobbying, all these agreements and all those coffees and lunches with tax advice and business from the Ministry, as is the case with the tobacco sector that is not allowed to lobby in ministries? It would actually be very good if the tax advisory practice were to be banned from the ministries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mrs Leijten rightly calls for attention to be paid to the fact that, when considering the rule-making policy, this is also done independently. There are now enough independent experts at the request of the Court of Auditors, but the Court of Auditors has also carried out and is going to do so. So does she agree with me that, fortunately, the Court of Auditors is a completely independent authority that is already investigating the ruling policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u4	Sure, but it's always kicked. I would actually be very happy if this Secretary of State would say that he really wants to put an end to... I call the tax supervision, which is another term. It was an introduction that wasn't allowed. We introduce tax supervision and it is said at the Ministry: it is not really possible, we do not like to report it to the European Commission. In this way, we are once again allowing an enormous amount of tax to be evaded, because that is what it really is. I would very much like us to be able to see that for ourselves. For example, I was pleased with the examination of the 4,000 rulings. And what did the investigation end up being? Purely formalistic. Did two sets of eyes even look at it? Are there any autographs? I'm looking for something more. In the previous period, the Chamber stated that it would investigate tax arrangements. At that time the multinationals were not allowed to join, but now even the government says that this policy was not really so good in the past and that it wants to change it. Then I say, "Let's watch as a room and see if we're going the right way."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Tax avoidance and evasion must be tackled hard. In his letter to the Chamber, the Secretary of State makes a number of proposals to make tax avoidance more difficult and they have the full support of the PvdA Group. These are good proposals and they are also very much needed, because the Netherlands is a tax hub for multinationals, for companies that try to minimise tax payments through the Netherlands and often limit them to almost zero. That really has to end. I appreciate that very much, but that does not alter the fact that I still have five questions and concerns. First of all, the ruling practice. However, letters are increasingly revealing the picture, and not only the picture, but also the practice that a virtually effective rate of between 5% and 7% could be agreed. Is that right? That was never reported to the Chamber, was it? And two: why does the Chamber keep getting information, piece by piece, in response to WOB requests from professors, scientists, individuals? And why isn't that information given to the Chamber itself? We've asked about that enough times, haven't we? How is that even possible? Mr. Chairman. The second point. The PvdA Group is deeply concerned about the impact of these tax avoidance measures on housing corporations. It is intended that you do not fill your entire company with debts and that makes it more unattractive, but housing corporations have a very special balance sheet. They serve a social good in society and they get 300 or 400 million to choose. That can never be the intention. These are not tax evaders, far from that; they serve a social purpose. That and how it is handled are not mentioned in this letter. I have already devoted many debates to this issue with the Minister for Home Affairs and Home Affairs, but it is also about living. He says: I will consult with the Secretary of State on this. But we're speaking to the Secretary of State now. Is this gonna be resolved, or are they just gonna get the 300, 400 million? That would really be a goddess, Mr. Chairman. They have nothing to do with tax avoidance and that ends up with the tenants. Mr. Chairman. The third point concerns the digital economy. I have drawn attention to this before and the Secretary of State says: yes, I will come back to that. That's good. But it is not yet the beginning of an answer to that. And these are, of course, the Facebooks, the Googles, the Apples, the big companies that still pay very little, who should, and who play an increasingly important role in our economy. What kind of answer can we expect? And does the Secretary of State also believe that that tax on Google, Apple, Facebook is what was it again in letters? Indeed, GAFA; Amazon also needs to be introduced and that is also done at European level? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the point of the race to the bottom. I've had an exchange of views with the Cabinet on that before. The PvdA has the analysis and I think that is the right one, because the OECD shares it, like the IMF and the CPB, that people have to pay more and more taxes and companies do less and less, internationally but also in the Netherlands. That is, of course, partly because of the tax avoidance that has been taking place all the time, and that means that companies are actually under burden, especially the multinationals. You gotta straighten that out. That is what is happening now, and these proposals are being taken out of court. That is a good thing, but if you return that right back to tax reduction, to lower VPB rates, to abolish the dividend tax, then you will continue on the race to the bottom that is going on in Europe. And that's a really bad choice. Why does the cabinet choose to do that? You shouldn't do that, should you? The VVD always likes load lighting, often called D66, but just give it to people instead of back to those companies and by taking the lead again in Europe with that race to the bottom. Mr. Chairman. That was my fourth point, but I see my time is up. I will see to it that, in an interruption, I can also make my fifth point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u7	Well, that's not what interruptions are for!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u8	In the cabinet, it is, Mr. Chairman. I can ask a question later in the debate, may I hope?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u9	I'm glad you shared that with me. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u10	Yeah, that's very wise. You're right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u11	Mr. Snels. Oh, Mrs. Leijten...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u12	Last Tuesday De Nederlandsche Bank came up with new figures which flashes through the Netherlands. 4,500 billion a year, rising by 75% since the crisis. A rising line, also under Minister Dijsselbloem. What exactly did the Labour Party do to reverse this trend?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u13	A lot. The savings secret in Switzerland has been lifted. On the exchange of tax information about what is being collected in which country between tax authorities have been made, so that you can see where that money comes from. Trust sector legislation has been strengthened but needs to go much further. We'll talk about that another time. We were on the interrogation committee together about that. We have all or perhaps you can find one, almost all of the motions that have been tabled in recent years and which want to address this, as a PvdA Group supported. During the previous cabinet period there was very often no majority in favour of this, but we have always taken the lead in this, together with your former spokesperson Merkies. Mr. Klaver was there for GroenLinks. But I agree directly with Mrs Leijten that much more needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u14	It is true that, in the international trend, we have taken note of the need to make more public and to see what is happening. What struck me so much in those DNB figures is that there is no flattening of that money that sucks through the Netherlands. Apparently, the measures taken at that time were necessary, but they were not the most effective means. How exactly does Mr Nijboer evaluate that? We have seen a good article by SOMO today, and I suspect that everyone got it this morning in which you see that rising line. How are we gonna get that rising line to continue? It is precisely in crisis time that the Netherlands has been much more of that fiscal gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u15	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u16	Apparently, the measures taken are not panacea. How does Mr Nijboer evaluate this, even for the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u17	Steps have been taken, but much more needs to be done. I am in favour of more real taxes being paid. That was just my argument. If you reward it again with a lower Vpb rate or with the abolition of the dividend tax, you close it on the one hand and pull it back in on the other. That is not the right path. I very much agree with Mrs Leijten that we are not yet here. Steps have been taken, but much more is needed. I hope to achieve much with the SP. It has to be with more parties, of course, because it's just the two of us. With a majority in the Chamber, I hope to force more for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u18	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I now give the floor to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u19	Mr. Chairman. We are experiencing a turning point in recent Dutch political history. The approach to tax avoidance will be a spearhead of government policy, at least in word. So far it has always been the same: our tax policy has nothing to do with tax avoidance, but it is simply good for our competitiveness. I notice that mainly tax consultants are critical in the media. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that they are mainly concerned about their own employment? The tone has changed, and that's good. In fact, the Secretary of State admits that the tax policy of the past is bad for tax morals, bad for our international standing and bad for the investment climate. Moreover, it is unfair for companies to be able to postpone or avoid taxes altogether, while citizens and other companies simply pay. I also very much appreciate this recognition. But, Mr President, all proceeds go back to a lower Vpb and abolish the dividend tax. Mr Nijboer has already spoken about it. Why is that? As the Secretary of State himself wrote in his letter, it is about justice. I read the letter as an acknowledgement that companies have paid too little in the past. Then it doesn't make sense for them to be rewarded with a lower income tax. If we tackle welfare fraud, the proceeds will not go to higher benefits either. If we hand out traffic tickets, the money doesn't go to lower car taxes either. This is how we continue to stimulate the race to the bottom. This is the point where the Netherlands is still a bit in denial. And that's too bad. Can I ask the Secretary of State whether the Netherlands will also participate fully in the European discussions on the harmonisation of the tax base and a minimum rate for the Vpb? Mr. Chairman. Good policy starts with good intentions, but it comes down to implementation and legislation. We will often have debates on this. Now I'm sure you'll find some examples. An important measure is the withholding tax on dividends, interest and royalties. It's conditional. What conditions apply? What's the fare? What are low-tax jurisdictions? What happens to tax treaties with countries such as Barbados and the United Arab Emirates, which have a low rate or even zero rate? This measure is necessary to make the Netherlands less attractive as a transit country of profits. We support that, of course. But by abolishing the dividend tax, are we not introducing a new incentive for companies to channel profits through the Netherlands, a new incentive for tax avoidance? In the CFC measure to avoid profit shifting to low-tax countries, the substance requirements come back around the corner, as is often the case in this file. A paycheck and an office, that's enough. For multinationals, that's a joke. These substance requirements continue to make constructions possible. I'd like a response. This brings me to the statement made by the Secretary of State, who regularly points out in his letter that the Netherlands goes beyond the minimum. But is that right? The question is what other countries actually do. Are we not simply implementing the directives as other countries do? Can the Secretary of State give an overview of how other countries implement ATAD 1 and 2 and where the differences are? Mr. Chairman. The examination of the rulings was mainly about the procedures followed, but it does not yet provide an insight into their content. There is a further need for external research and the Court of Auditors' investigation. That's fine, but I want to make a general point. Does the Secretary of State recognise that the ruling practice of the past facilitated tax avoidance, has actually been the flywheel for tax constructions and tax avoidance over the past 15 years? What does this mean for the future? I agree with the Secretary of State that giving security can be useful in advance and it is good that he is going to keep the practice under review. But as long as rulings are not transparent and cannot be controlled, we will have discussions about what happens in the black box. Not only about the past, but perhaps also about the future. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that transparency is necessary and should be a spearhead? I would prefer to see a public register, but what possibilities does the Secretary of State see?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u20	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "The recent letter from Secretary of State Quickly to counter tax avoidance sounds like music to my ears. That really is a fundamental change in relation to the past." Those aren't my words. These are the words of the OECD Tax Policy Director in Trouw last Thursday, but they could have been mine. At the same time, this OECD director indicated that this change could indeed have been done a lot earlier. I think he's right about that too. But it is clear that my group considers this Secretary of State's approach to be ambitious and a change of direction. Tax avoidance is now being tackled more firmly than ever before. Let me give you a few examples. I apologize in advance for the jargon. A tightening-up and renewal of the ruling practice. Stricter rules for trust agencies, which we have been waiting for for years. Tax advisors are required to share information about aggressive tax structures. The Innovation Box is being restricted. Qualification differences between tax treaties are avoided. Tax avoidance through controlled foreign companies is addressed. The Netherlands goes beyond the European minimum standard. If other countries do the same, I am only pleased with that, I will also say to Mr Snels. The Netherlands is introducing strict interest rate restrictions, even more far-reaching than the European requirements of the Directive, which also make own funds more attractive to debt. There will be a withholding tax on dividends, outgoing, on interest rates and on royalties. That is a measure which I expect extremely much from me, precisely to do something about the flow that Mrs Leijten was talking about. We are going to implement the multilateral agreement ambitiously and we are going to have to wait a little longer to give the Tax Administration more information and more detection capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u22	When you look at the practice of tax deals with multinationals, you see that it is not nice. There are a lot of constructions offered in the past that weren't supposed to. This was not to facilitate tax avoidance, but to facilitate tax evasion. That's what D66 actually says with so many being. What guarantee does D66 have that this will actually be something new and that we will not, as I said in my term, cut off one head and come back three new ones?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u23	Mrs Leijten said that I said something I did not think I said. I do agree with her that there have been real mistakes, not only procedural ones, about signatures in the ruling practice, but also about the group financing. In my opinion, the Secretary of State simply concludes that things have happened that should not have happened. I am therefore very pleased, for example, that we are also allowing the Court of Auditors to re-examine the rule-making practices. But apart from the rule, I have, I believe, mentioned nine other examples, from withholding taxes to interest relief restrictions to addressing trust agencies, all of which are very ambitious. But I would like to make a point to Mrs Leijten: paper is patient. It is now important to bring that from paper to practice. I have every confidence in this Secretary of State in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u24	My main concern is the ways within our tax system that are on or over the edge to narrow your profits so that you can pretend to make less profit and therefore effectively pay significantly less tax. There's really not a lot to be done about that. I like the proposals, but I think they can be sharper. It is precisely to the trickbox that companies can apply with knowledge and approval of the Tax Administration that little is done. What guarantees does D66 have that this will really be dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u25	The proof of the pudding is always in the eating, but I think Mrs Leijten is really gloomy now. The ruling practice should be based on the use of standing policies. That has gone wrong a few times in the past, by the way. That's quite obvious. I fully agree with you on that. I even share the indignation with you. But when I just see what we're gonna do, I think a withholding tax like this is really gonna put an end to all this transit. It just doesn't get that interesting anymore. I find it difficult to see Mrs Leijten looking, but I think this is a small revolution. With her I hope that it will have the desired effect and with her I will keep the cabinet keen that these measures will have the desired effect. I see a cabinet finally picking up that glove.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u26	Mrs. Leijten never looks difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u27	Well, chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u28	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u29	Shortly after the substance requirements for the adaptation of which D66 has also worked in the past. Does Mr Van Weyenberg really feel that this $100,000 wage bill and these two-year leases are going to scare off companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u30	I will come back to that myself with a question. When it comes specifically to giving the guarantee in advance, the rulings, I see that one of the concerns that many colleagues of the Chamber had in the previous consultation with the Secretary of State was that you should actually be based here and that it can not only be a paper-based mailbox on the Amsterdam Zuidas. I think that the demands make a difference there. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether the demands are high enough to really separate the chaff from the chaff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u31	Clear. But how do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u32	First of all, I think it is extremely good that these rulings are finally subject to real substance requirements. It never was. That means for an office on the Zuidas that you just have to have a long period of activity there. I think that is a great step forward. One of the things I want to monitor is that I am asking this question now whether we can also see that there is indeed a sufficient threshold between what we both do not want, namely rulings with companies in the Netherlands that are not actually active in the Netherlands at all. I think this is a big step forward. Is it enough? I have faith in it. The Secretary of State has faith in it. Let him, above all, explain again why this is so. If it's not enough, we're gonna look at it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u33	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am therefore also pleased that the Court of Auditors, in line with Mr Schouten's and myself's motion, now intends to carry out a follow-up investigation into the rulings in 2019. As pleased as I am that the independent experts are now looking into the internal committee, I think it is good that the Court of Auditors is completely independent, regular, precisely because it is taking place in private. Then you should also have it examined independently once in a while. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a few specific questions. The withholding tax on interest and royalties is a measure that is as effective as possible as it does not generate any money because the flow just stops. That's crazy, but if this doesn't pay off, the measure seems effective. I hope, therefore, that this measure will not generate money, but will really stop this empty flow through the Netherlands. This tax must be so high and substantial that it actually has the desired effect. When is the Secretary of State gonna tell us how he's gonna fill this out? Mr Snels also asked a few questions about this. Then there's the CFC measure. The Secretary of State has opted for the more ambitious model A. I wholeheartedly support that. The question is whether here the pay sum of €100,000 and the demand for office space available for two years in other countries too, I say to Mr Azarkan, so not within the Netherlands but in other countries too, are sufficiently effective to work in this way. Could the Secretary of State indicate why he expects this to be a sufficient threshold? Is he willing to monitor this properly when it's done? I read, among other things, in the letter from Tax Justice some concerns about this. The Secretary of State has faith in it. I'd like to hear why and how he's gonna monitor this. Then there's the blacklist. There are only eight European countries on it, because many countries have promised to improve. But the proof of the pudding is also here in the eating. Would the Secretary of State be prepared to inform the Chamber before the summer recess whether the countries that have promised to improve have actually delivered, and to work in Europe to ensure full transparency about that review process in the Code of Conduct Group, so that we can follow it properly? Because if you promise to get better and you don't, then of course you just have to get back on that blacklist as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. Then the country-by-country reporting. That was a bit quiet because of the German elections. Is that going to work again? If not, can the Secretary of State in Brussels argue in favour of this? Mr. Chairman. A business case has been requested, including by colleague Nijboer. I've asked once or twice. That's still work in progress. Can the Secretary of State indicate when he thinks he can report something? The same applies to the stricter rules governing the supervision of highly wealthy persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u35	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u36	And again there was fake news, as so often in recent years. And again, the nonsense of the NIS came, as usual in recent years. Mr. Chairman. The answer given by the Secretary of State in his letter of 12 December shows that the reports that the Netherlands is obstructing the approach to tax avoidance are not correct. Step by step, the Secretary of State shows what really happens and what the Netherlands really does. In this letter there is nothing left of the coverage of the NOS or of the brutal words of Pierre Moscovici. Case closed, it seemed. But on March 7 Moscovici came again with allegations. Once again, the Netherlands gets kicked. The Netherlands would undermine justice and, quite funnyly, the Netherlands "enhanced the burden on European taxpayers." But once again, the Secretary of State denies everything. In a meeting on 5 March, Moscovici would have appointed and, above all, meant very different matters with the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Now the PVV knows that Moscovici can't really be called reliable. This guy's got some weird ideas, some really weird ideas. He has been a member of the Revolutionary Communist League, a Trotskyist Communist Club. And such a figure is therefore working to influence the image of the Netherlands negatively. You can say "well, what difference does it make" but this gentleman probably does so well that the Secretary of State now feels called upon to do his best. So suddenly we have a government that comes up with plans that go far beyond what is necessary and which, if we are not careful, are going to price the Netherlands out of the market. Is it true that this ex-communist has given a misrepresentation of things? Is this gentleman lying? Is he spreading fake news? I'd like a clear answer. Mr. Chairman. Everyone has to pay their fair share of taxes, so tax evasion needs to be tackled hard. After all, they break the law. It is crazy and unacceptable that there are multinationals that pay only 5% or 10% effectively, certainly compared to the practice in the Netherlands that ordinary citizens have to pay up to 52%. Unrighteous tax avoidance and dubious tax constructions sharpen the tax morale. The PVV therefore supports the commitment to a global approach to countering undue tax avoidance, but let us make a clear distinction between what should and should not be done. Because tax avoidance, as we know it now, is still legal. Many companies or citizens prefer to pay less taxes than more. I don't know them who would like to pay more. That's why we need to look closely at the rules. And we need to see how high the bar is. Because should we condemn citizens who are going to pay taxes across borders in order to avoid a high VAT rate in the Netherlands? And how wrong are institutions that suddenly become an anbi because they then have to pay less energy tax? And what do we think of donors of a cultural anbi who suddenly have extra donations and thus pay less tax? All concrete examples, all legal, but tax avoidance is taking place. So let us be clear and transparent about what should and should not be. I see time goes very fast. Let me say that we should never, ever, ever have European taxes. The EU always makes something worse out of something bad. And yes, Internet platforms also have to pay taxes, but not via Europe, never. I'll close with two questions. Will the government stick to its previous position that there will be no EU taxes and no EU Minister for Finance? To make the latter even clearer, I would ask the Secretary of State: will the government do everything in its power to ensure that Mr Hoekstra is not the last Dutch Minister for Finance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u37	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u38	Mr. Chairman. The members of the 50PLUS Group are pleased to learn that the society-destructive phenomenon of international tax avoidance is finally being seriously addressed by this cabinet. Secretary of State Snel bases the fight against tax avoidance and tax evasion on two pillars. On the one hand, he wants to protect the tax base better. On the other hand, he takes measures in the area of transparency and integrity. Now that some of the leading foreign experts, the OECD and, allegedly, the European Commission, also regard the Dutch Government's line as a trend break with the past, we can no longer ignore the fact that the country seems to have turned the ship. Vague commitments and intentions have become concrete. In particular, I would like to mention the leading role that the cabinet seems to want to play in implementing the anti-abuse provisions in the tax treaties, the first and second European directive to combat tax avoidance ATAD 1 and 2, and the withholding tax on outgoing interest and royalty flows, already referred to as low-tax jurisdictions. There are very firm measures on the table and there are still more firm measures in the pipeline. We will support them, especially those we already know. Mandatory disclosure and country-by-country reporting, for example, are still on the way. From an international perspective, these are enormous changes. That is important, but as far as 50PLUS is concerned it should have been and should have been much sooner. Because of the international component of this dilemma, there is a real understanding in the Netherlands of the fact that on this dossier we cannot change the world alone and in one time everyone has to move.But it is also high time for the Netherlands to set an example. The Netherlands has something to prove and perhaps even something to make up for. Messages like the Dutch government would still be known as a notorious obstructor within the EU in the field of tax avoidance, nourishing our concerns. I do not mention names here; they have been mentioned before, in singular. We don't want that. The Secretary of State's letters have reassured us for the time being. Mr Van Weyenberg already referred to the praises of the Director of the OECD, Pascal Saint-Amans. Mr. Chairman. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, the approach to options and constructions that encourage or provoke tax avoidance is only one side of the coin. On the other hand, companies' share of total tax revenue has been falling for more than 20 years, while citizens have started to pay more and more. On balance, the government's approach to tax avoidance in any event, according to the figures in the government agreement, does not contribute to the social desire to allow companies, especially large companies, to contribute relatively more to the overall tax revenue. On the contrary, the full revenue from the significantly improved approach to tax avoidance, as quantified in the government agreement, flows completely away through lower corporate tax rates and the abolition of dividend tax. In fact, this cabinet is even doing a very nice gift of 1 billion structuralally. The fair share of business does not go up but down, and that is where much of the social indignation comes from. All countries lose in a race to the bottom. I have already said that we also want a minimum corporate tax rate to be taken into account, in addition to the debate on the basis. In our view, reducing the age of AOW, strengthening purchasing power and targeted investments in the public sector are much more logical alternatives. After all, that's where the money was removed. Making companies pay their fair share is the key to reversing a persistent and depressing social trend. Public poverty and private wealth: we do not want that. This could have been the turning point. 50PLUS therefore wants nothing more than for the cabinet to remove the proposed abolition of the dividend tax and again to look very critically at the huge reduction in the rate of profit tax. Only then will the proposed approach to tax avoidance lead to a sustainable recovery of the tax balance between citizens and businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u39	I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u40	Mr. Chairman. Tax avoidance is one of the most difficult international problems. But for a number of years, something's happened. At European and OECD level, we see new directives, new agreements being implemented, and I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg's ambitious government agreement. Today's OECD peer review is on the agenda. The results were not really surprising, but I had a bit of a laugh at the tweet of my colleagues Asscher and Nijboer, who thought it was a review of Rutte III. But they couldn't have read the entire report in three minutes. If they could have read it, they would have seen that the Netherlands under the cabinet they were in didn't even come off so badly. A point of interest was the exchange of rulings. That seems to be going a lot faster now. Is that impression correct, or are there any old rulings that need to be exchanged or found somewhere? The challenge now is to get to work on the exchanged rulings. Maybe the Secretary of State can take us a little along with his strategy. For it is not very stormy with the request of exchanged rulings. Both that the Netherlands doesn't really ask them if other countries don't really do this. Why is that? I will stick to those rulings, because there is also an investigation on the agenda about the accuracy of rulings issued. It's good that research is being done. So far we've had to believe the Secretary of State and his predecessors on their blue eyes, now we're finally seeing research. But there's one thing I'm surprised about. The Secretary of State concludes that there are hardly any errors in APA/ATR practice and more errors in the other rulings. But, yeah, what do you get when you just check if there's two signatures underneath? Mr Leijten has already pointed that out. If my tax return is only checked for whether there's a signature underneath it, it'll be true. However, it must of course be considered whether it was correct in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u41	I'm a little challenged by a tweet, which I don't remember when it was sent. I don't remember exactly what it said, what it was about. But apparently this had to be made a point. I would like to point out, however, that in recent years there have been quite a lot of proposals in this House and many motions have been tabled, with the CDA always voting on the side of PVV and VVD. Proposals that went beyond government policy, and which supported PvdA, the SP and GroenLinks, were always denied a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u42	I refer to a concrete tweet. I do not hear Mr Nijboer mention any specific proposals, so I am not going to make a general statement. This is a tweet from the moment it came out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u43	What year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u44	That was this year. That was about the letter we're talking about here. I am not like Mr Van der Veer, that I also remember what I did in 2010. We have an ambitious coalition agreement here, and I expect full support from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u45	Well, full support is too much to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u46	That's right. I must admit that I wouldn't have done that myself if it had looked exactly like this and I had been in the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u47	On tax avoidance, I have just made my contribution and I believe that I fully... Well, completely... I supported the core effort, but I do not support the choices to spend the money that it brings at a lower rate of profit and the abolition of dividend tax. I have also mentioned a number of other points. You speak to the PvdA yourself, otherwise I would have left this, but the main point I want to make is this. Over and over again, we have made proposals, including in the cabinet. At that time, the VVD was not very clear for all these measures, fortunately, and the Chamber was not in favour of moving forward. The CDA has taken care of that majority. The PvdA has always voted for the right side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u48	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u49	Well, Mr President, perhaps I could give you another response or would Mrs Leijten do that for me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u50	That could be surprising!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u51	Good cooperation! You may respond, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u52	In other cases, this cooperation sometimes succeeds more easily than in this case, Mr President. Mr Nijboer spoke about the proposals we have made here. I myself have been rapporteur on the agreement between the Council of Europe and the OECD on automatic and spontaneous data exchange. That was already in 2007 and 2008. That was the first treaty that didn't exactly tell you what you were looking for, because the problem with this whole thing is that you never know what you're looking for, but where things were automatically exchanged. From that moment on, we have consistently made concrete proposals. Mr Nijboer knows that too. They were not always exactly the same proposals as Mr Nijboer's.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u53	Good. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u54	Something has changed internationally in recent years, following the Panama Papers and the Paradise Papers. It has been said that countries are simply disadvantaged if too little tax is paid, and multinationals can use all kinds of structures and countries to pay as little tax as possible, and so we are going to work together. The Netherlands has contributed reasonably to this. This Secretary of State is about to do more than that. That is good, but the question is: is he also doing what actually stops the situation of the Netherlands as a tax avoidance country? Does Mr Omtzigt have the idea that the angel is really being addressed or that it is actually a bit of cosmetic adjustment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u55	I'm not much of a cosmetic adjuster. I think that this coalition agreement and also these policy letters are the most ambitious ones. Mr Van Weyenberg has already made a clear statement about it in order to ensure that the number of streamers will fall very sharply. I think that is actually the most important point. In all honesty, it remains quite difficult to cut precisely what are streamers and what are real companies when the concrete measure is being drawn up. There's a gray zone over there. I'd like to have that discussion over the next few years. Let me make a comment on this. Let me give you the example of the minimum substance requirements. I understand these minimum substance requirements, but on that I have a question for the Secretary of State: is it logical to make them the same for small and very large companies? Would he care to see if those substance requirements could be slightly larger for a large company? Such a company may have been here for years, makes a billion-dollar turnover and only has to be here with a few houseplants and two men of staff, while for small start-ups that is a fine substance requirement. You will continue to hear such proposals from me. In three years' time, you'll be able to take care of us, or they'll be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u56	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u57	I believe that it will be very difficult to deal with multinationals using an e.g. structure that is not recognizable as a letterbox or a house plant, for example in a trust office. This is even more difficult to tackle than the trust sector itself. That's gonna be complicated. But my question is actually the following. It is true what Mr Nijboer said, in the past there has been quite a brake. Mr Omtzigt says that there is now an ambitious package and that we will be able to pay him in three years' time. If Mr Omtzigt asks for confidence in this package, for example, would the first step not be to respond to a clear wish that the opposition has long had and which is also part of the international agreements, namely: simply publish those rulings, although made anonymous? In the written questions, the Secretary of State replied that this can be done. Shouldn't we just do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u58	I'd like to take a quiet look at the pros and cons of that. As long as this is happening at European level in the countries around us, I think that is a good measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u59	Please continue. No, Mr Snels has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u60	Mr Omtzigt was just talking about the previous cabinet period and Mr Dijsselbloem. In my own speech I said: we are dealing with a turning point. The Secretary of State's letter recognizes that the tax policy of recent years, let us say twenty years, has been bad for tax morality, bad for our prestige and bad for the climate of establishment. I think that's a turning point, that recognition. This also means recognition that the tax policy of Secretary of State Wijn or Minister of Finance Jan Kees de Jager, for example, has not been good for Dutch tax policy. Does Mr Vertzig share this recognition?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u61	Mr Snels is home with great strides. That policy has not been bad for the Dutch climate of establishment, as he said. If that's what it says, I don't share it. I think attempts have been made. In hindsight, you might say that you thought they were too favorable, but they didn't exactly chase companies away, I'm just saying for the record. They fit into a time frame. Not only the Netherlands did that, it was done massively. The first bad horde around 2007/2008 is banking secrecy in the Alpine countries but also in Belgium. The next hurdles that are being destroyed together are therefore that BEPS pathway there is also a joint action. I do not want to create the illusion that the Netherlands did a number of things that a number of countries around us did not do. That's the hard part. That is why I continue to urge more than a number of other colleagues to do this together and to lead the way. For all I care, you organize an extra conference if there's another problem, but make sure you don't just carry the problems as the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u62	The Secretary of State's letter: "Charious for tax morale, detrimental to the international standing of the Netherlands and thus to the investment climate." This interruption is only provoked because you are only looking at the previous cabinet. I want the recognition that CDA executives have also contributed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u63	I hear all the time that we have to do it together. Now the PVV has nothing to do with Brussels, but you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u64	The OECD is in Paris, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u65	Yes, but it is now about the measures that are being announced and which go beyond what Brussels wants. So nice for Paris, but we were talking about Brussels. We don't have anything to do with that, you do. How do you think we are going to proceed now and take measures that will put a Dutch face on top of Brussels' demands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u66	That's exactly the challenge I'm setting out here. I think it's fine that we're ambitious in this. I also hope that the cabinet's commitment will be that we are more ambitious in this because we are seeing new avoidance routes emerging. The Secretary of State does not only do this in Dutch law. He will also do his best to do so jointly with other countries in Europe. I do see a problem. I am crazy enough between you and Mr Snels, not only physically but also politically, I hear. There's been a problem in the past. That is a problem in many countries. So that's what you're gonna do together. The Netherlands has not operated so much differently than other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u67	I can go a long way with you, but I don't understand why you're not taking that last step. Proposals are now being made which go further. I hear you say 'no, I want to do it together with other countries', but on the basis of a certain image that we would have gotten somewhere, there are now plans that have to make up for that and so we are running a little faster than we need to. Do I have you by my side, does the PVV have you by her side when she says, "You don't have to?"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u68	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u69	No, if it is necessary, for example, to deal with the flow that is not really very helpful, because it is not possible internationally, then I am prepared to go beyond the international agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u70	I heard Mr Omtzigt say: we have taken a number of measures and we were not the only ones; they did so in the neighbouring countries. However, I would like to know from Mr Omtzigt to what extent he can defend ethically that we are raising EUR 1 billion here, with some EUR 4 500 billion to EUR 12,000 billion, according to DNB, flowing through our country, which means that we may be stealing EUR 100 billion from other countries. How do you feel about that ethically?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u71	You use words that I'll leave on your account. I have just told you that what is at the top of my list and what we can be reckoned with is that these transits do not always have anything to do with real economic activities. Perhaps the Secretary of State can tell us to what extent that can be reduced. If these flows are not related to real activities, I simply do not think they are desirable either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u72	Do you think that these substance requirements of €100,000 and a two-year lease contribute sufficiently to removing ethical concerns? Do they sufficiently subscribe to tax morals in the Netherlands? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u73	Perhaps I can give a partial answer to Mr Nijboer. I have just said that I might want to have the minimum substance requirements even higher when it comes to a large company that only comes here for the flow. I want to see what the possibilities are. So there's really something to talk about, because I understand that point is there. Since Mr Nijboer was still looking for some examples that didn't immediately come to his mind at the time, I was the one who first asked Parliamentary questions and asked a debate about the fact that the Dutch government at the time held road shows in Ukraine and Thailand with all kinds of trust offices to bring companies here. I was kind of the first to get support for that; so this is not a reproach to others that they didn't do it................................................................................................................................................................................... It stopped after that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u74	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u75	So that's the part I don't want to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u76	Very briefly, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u77	I'm glad there's room. I intend to table a motion to look at the possibility of stagnant or relative durability requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u78	I think I want to wait and see what proposals the government itself can come up with on these matters, as I say to Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u79	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u80	'Cause what I'm saying here is pretty complicated. Mr. Chairman. I was working on those rulings. There may be two signatures, but of course I find it much more interesting what mistakes were made. For example, has there been any action in accordance with the Tax Administrative Law Decision? Why wasn't that investigated? Why do we pretend that the APA/ATR team did well by definition when they signed two signatures? That's not what an investigation is for. In the other rulings, I do want to know what it means when that decision has not been complied with, and what has been done when rulings are probably not found correct on the content. What kind of inaccuracies were found in that? Mr. Chairman. There is now a solid committee with two independent scientists looking at the rulings issued in 2017. Can the Secretary of State indicate when that committee has started, when we get the initial results, and how many rulings are reviewed annually by that committee? Why don't we also look at the rulings before 2017? I find it unacceptable that they should not be taken. Is the Secretary of State prepared to have the somewhat older rulings examined as well? And the committee can only take a sample. Is the Secretary of State prepared to give the Committee the freedom to select and propose some rulings in addition to that sample in order to have a closer look? We may not be looking at certain rulings, but I would appreciate it from that committee. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has previously indicated that rulings are issued to companies and highly wealthy persons. Can the Secretary of State also indicate how it is possible for an ordinary taxpayer, say one-man business or an SME, to obtain a national or international ruling without an advisor? To give just one example: the rules on mortgage interest deduction in divorce are impossible. A number of people would simply like legal certainty and want to know how they are applied. How and where can these people report in? Can they go to the APA/ATR team? Or are we gonna put a team next to it? Mr. Chairman. This week we could also read about tax supervision. This is also a service of the Tax Administration from about 2009. I have no idea what I can imagine. Twenty seconds, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u82	Can the Secretary of State state state since when, and if it still exists? How far did that service go? And in line with that: in the past, the Tax Administration also issued rulings on cases that can be regarded as an advocacy? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u83	Thank you, Mrs Lodders, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u84	Mr. Chairman. In March, most people are often a little more aware of taxes than in the rest of the year. That has everything to do with making the tax return. This year, too, since 1 March, the tax forms have been ready to make a declaration. By making the tax return, we realize again that we have to pay taxes. That's not always fun, but together we pay for good care, new ways and our safety. It is important that everyone, whether they are individuals or companies, pays their taxes, because if that does not happen, then the people who do it properly will pay for it. That can and should not be the intention. Mr. Chairman. Avoiding tax is illegal and punishable. The VVD wants to take that hard. There can be no misunderstanding about that. In the coalition agreement, with the support of the VVD, firm measures are taken. In addition to criminal tax evasion, we also know tax avoidance. It is often not illegal, but the question here is whether anything can be done. There's a big gray area. In a number of situations, tax morals and therefore the support for a favourable tax environment for entrepreneurs are being seriously undermined, and that is bad. For the VVD, an attractive location environment for SMEs and businesses is of great importance, as people depend on it for their jobs and income. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet sent a letter at the end of February with an ambitious package of measures to combat tax evasion and tax avoidance. The VVD supports the line to crack down on this tax evasion. The proposals to combat shady forms of tax avoidance can also count on the support of the VVD. At the same time, I would like to ensure that, in the debate on tax avoidance, we put every entrepreneur away as a potential criminal. My question to the Secretary of State is how he intends to prevent this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u85	You're allowing group financing. That's another construction, and that's not allowed to happen, and you're going to do tax supervision. In 2011 you notice at the Ministry that that thinking is probably not good either, but you're still going through with it. Is it then the public opinion that puts companies away as potential criminals? Or is it the Ministry and the Tax Administration who actually continue to offer an avoidance structure, an illegal construction, and thus turn these companies into avoiders?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u86	In the first part of my speech, I think I have been very clear. So we shouldn't be offering what the rules say we shouldn't. And we need to find a solution to that. The moment it's done, it's not good. Then we have to take care, and that brings me to the last part of the first part that I have just shared, that we are looking at the fiscal entrepreneurial environment. I think that's incredibly important. People depend on that, on their jobs and on their income, so that counts for the VVD. But again, that's no excuse to operate outside the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u87	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u88	In the past, two years ago, the VVD stopped us from investigating tax structures in companies as a parliament. We were allowed to investigate the tax structures of individuals and the use of other countries, but not those of companies. Would that still be the case today? Or does the VVD say: to clean up the rule-making practices, would it be very good if the Chamber did investigate that? Then we really know whether what is now being proposed are real measures rather than some cosmetic adjustments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u89	I think Mrs Leijten is referring to rulings. Ruling, as I say for the sake of clarity, should be no more and no less than a clarification of where and how to tax. And that has to be within the rules that we have with each other. I can be clip-and-ready about that. But that a company or a person is asking for clarity in advance, I think very rightly. In the past period, a number of steps have been taken with regard to the approach to rulings. We have also made a very interesting work visit to "the ruling department" as a permanent committee, and I am trying to avoid abbreviations as much as possible, Mr President. I have just heard a number of questions from both Mrs Leijten and Mr Omtzigt. I await with interest the reaction of the Secretary of State to that, to see if we should take that next step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u90	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u91	The VVD also wants to ensure that the outcome of the debates to combat tax evasion and avoidance degenerate into breaking down our favourable locational environment and increasing taxes, because that does not benefit anyone. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to give an explicit assurance that every measure will take account of the locational climate. Does the Secretary of State agree with the VVD that the measure should always be chosen which tackles the streamers and escapers but avoids the real, beneficial business? I therefore ask the Secretary of State to explain explicitly in every explanatory statement a number of proposals to the Court of Justice, to consider separately how that measure is weighted in relation to the locational climate, whether the measure is proportionate and whether the most balanced variant is chosen. Can the Secretary of State undertake to do this? Mr. Chairman. With regard to the VVD, tackling tax evasion and a favourable locational environment need not be mutually exclusive. In our view, this is not about It is possible to tackle both tax fraudsters and to keep the Netherlands attractive for entrepreneurs and business. That is why my group will look at and assess all measures on these two requirements: ensuring that tax evasion and avoidance are addressed, but certainly not forgetting the preservation and strengthening of our attractive locational environment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u93	I understand. We just disagree about the Vpb. You can find what you want in politics, too. However, I am curious to see how Mrs Lodders maintains the reasoning that the dividend tax is so important for the business environment, especially after Unilever's decision, and certainly towards SMEs, which complains about the cabinet's burden plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u94	The government agreement proposes many measures, not just in the tax domain. Mr Nijboer has undoubtedly read that well. There are also a number of measures in the field of Economic Affairs and Social Affairs, which also benefit SMEs. We can now have a debate on dividend taxation, but we will certainly come back to that at a later date. It is no surprise that the VVD is in favour of this measure and that it will benefit not only large businesses but also SMEs. There are examples of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u95	That's what I'm curious about. We got some information from the Secretary of State. He said that investors abroad deserve it and that governments also have a profit from it. That split-up's a little hard to make. But could Mrs Lodders go into more detail about the benefits that SMEs have through the abolition of the dividend tax? Then where are the benefits? Because they are still completely unclear and unknown to me, and I do not hear them applaudingly call the SME industry organisations happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u96	Maybe I can invite Mr Nijboer to just go back to the country and visit a number of companies with me, including SMEs, who get a lot of jobs, especially from these companies. That's one. The CPB has also indicated that it is impossible to quantify the number of jobs created by the abolition of the dividend tax, but that it is attractive for business. Apart from that, we are not abolishing the dividend tax for those companies that channel money to tax havens. So there is still a distinction to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u97	I refer to Mrs Lodder's argument that all tax measures must be seen in the light and against the background of their contribution to the investment climate or the locational environment. Can I challenge Mrs Lodder to tell me how the abolition of the dividend tax will contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u98	I think I've just gone into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u99	I haven't seen the beginning of an answer. Then can I ask you another way? If I now put forward a motion together with Mrs Lodders to have the CPB investigate it. Would Mrs Lodders then support them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u100	No, because that has already been addressed in the report; I have already indicated that. Apart from that, we are not going to debate the abolition of dividend taxation here. I'm fine with that, but I'd like to have a little more time for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u101	I think you were done with your input, weren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u102	I was done. Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u103	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u104	Thank you, Mr President. "The Netherlands doesn't look good on it internationally." That is a wonderful quote from this Secretary of State in an interview about the fiscal image of the Netherlands. Another quote: "That picture is persistent and it does not do the investment climate well." You ask yourself, how the hell did this happen? The answer is actually very simple: that was policy. The Secretary of State for Finance of the Netherlands has been known for a long time as those who are in charge of a major spin-off of international tax avoidance, by having in the past tax treaties designed to prevent double taxation, but which were used in practice for tax shifting and avoidance. This is also done by means of opaque tax rulings that did not always meet the procedural requirements, and by maintaining a sector of trust offices and letterbox companies. The Dutch treasury earned about 1 billion euros a year for many years and that is a bit lean compared to the 4,500 billion that DNB estimates flowing through these institutions every year. Is it true, I ask the Secretary of State, that this is about EUR 100 billion in unpaid profits and royalties, as was stated in the FD on 24 February? And what amount are other countries short because of our actions? How much is that amount exactly? I referred to that earlier as reverse development aid. The Netherlands still helped and helps to smoke up many billions of tax revenues in other countries. The European Commission therefore calls the Netherlands a fiscal Bermuda triangle. I can imagine that we would all be very angry if other countries were to harm the Netherlands in this way. Fortunately, there is the long-awaited plan of action of 23 February. But is the glass half full or half empty now? Mr. Chairman. My group welcomes the introduction of a withholding tax on royalties and dividends going to low-tax jurisdictions. The dividends will be taxed from 2020 and the withholding tax on royalties will apply from 2021. In the coalition agreement there was 2023, by the way, with an expected return of zero. It is not clear to my group what this arrangement is going to look like. Can the Secretary of State clarify the new withholding tax against tax avoidance? Why will this bill not be further developed until 2019? It is striking that the abolition of the Hills Act in November went on high-speed rail transport. Parliament had about nineteen days to consider it. Increasing VAT on groceries from 6% to 9% is also happening very quickly. The Secretary of State honored his last name. The abolition of the dividend tax and the reduction of the Vpb is also going very quickly; next year already. However, tackling tax avoidance takes a long time. Do I understand that the transfer of profits to Ireland with a profit tax of 12.5% and to Hungary with 9% will not even be covered by the new withholding tax as far as the Secretary of State is concerned? The substance requirement, which has already been mentioned several times, of €100,000 is extremely questionable. If you put a bunch of people together on the Zuidas, then the tax spill industry can just go on. Mr. Chairman. DENK welcomes the mandate disclosure for consultancy firms that allow aggressive tax plans. But why didn't we opt for a ban on aggressive tax planning? Is it true that disclosure in this case only means disclosure to the Tax Office? That's not exactly transparency. That is achieved by making anonymized public. This is already being done in Belgium. Mr President, I will conclude. We have nothing to do with procedural descriptions of how many tax rulings have been dealt with and exchanged with other countries. It's about the content of those tax rulings. So whether the glass is half full or half empty depends above all on the answer of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u105	Thank you. I'll see if the Secretary of State needs a brief suspension. 25 minutes? That's what we negotiate in public. That's transparent. Shall we do 20 minutes? If that's what we need, we'll do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u106	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank everyone for their contributions today, in a debate on a really important subject for me: tax evasion and avoidance. As you all know, I sent two policy letters to your Chamber just over a month ago. It sets out a number of priorities for the coming years. The first is the tax policy letter, in which I say a lot of things about locational conditions, simplification, reduction of burdens and a whole lot of other important things. Today we are talking about something that I think is so important that I have written a special letter about it to you: tackling tax avoidance and evasion and combating the fact that the Netherlands is always seen as a tax turntable. There's a negative reputation to that, which I don't think is justified. As far as that is not clear, I would like to make it clear with a series of measures that we are making this a priority policy commitment. It's not just for me. As has been said before, the coalition agreement already contains extensive sentences and paragraphs. That's one. I would like to thank the Chamber for keeping it relatively understandable. In the case of major policy proposals on taxation, it is always the danger that we are making each other a little crazy with directives, precise abbreviations and article numbers. I hope that this also applies to a neutral listener who has had a good discussion about the substance of what we are talking about today, namely: there is a situation and there are a number of measures that some people think are too far and others do not think are far enough. I thought it was a nice debate to listen to. I thank your room for that. A lot of questions have been asked. They dealt with underlying reports, rulings, measures and cases such as the Paradise Papers and the Panama Papers. I've been trying to make a division into five small cubes, where those questions come in. Some questions were asked directly to me. Some questions came to me loud and clear through an interruption. I'm trying to answer both kinds of questions. I have the next five-parts in mind. First, I will briefly put down the purpose of the letter. Then I will deal with the measures I take to protect the tax base of the Netherlands and other countries, but also with the situations that occur because systems of different countries do not respond to each other, the so-called mismatch. That too is where we are trying to take some measures. I would also like to say a few words about transparency and integrity. They are important in this discussion. We can't underestimate them. A number of things have been said about this by several Members of Parliament. I would also like to say a few words about the Dutch position in this regard. I would like to say a few words about basic harmonisation in Europe. That discussion came to an end. Let me say something about digitisation and tax competition. Finally, I deal with the provision of advance assurance, the so-called ruling practice. Most of the questions have actually been asked about this, also in the light of the letter I sent to your Chamber on 16 February this year. In it are the results of a first, really large-scale investigation that we have done about the procedure and the content of the ruling practice in the Netherlands. Before I start, I'd like to say one more thing. I have already mentioned it in the letter to your Chamber, but it is important to remember that we, as a cabinet, are a little bit obliged to the POFC, i.e. the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Fiscal Constructions. I look around if I see Mr Nijboer, because I wanted to say it mainly to him. The POFC has highlighted a number of elements that have been important in defining our cabinet policy. I would like to thank Mr Nijboer, the chairman, and all the members with him, for the valuable work of this committee. Moreover, I understand that we may once discuss separately the POFC and its results with your Chamber. I hope that someone will give this to Mr Nijboer. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the purpose of the letter. We had two goals with the big letter on tax avoidance and evasion, starting with tax avoidance in general and letterbox companies in particular. The policy for this has already been laid down in the coalition agreement. Often people ask me: what exactly is a letterbox company? I think we all have an idea what that is. But you'll see that if you try to look that up, there's actually no definition of it. There are firms in which there is relatively little substance and which are not necessarily a letterbox company in the sense of fiscal constructions going through. There may also be trade reasons behind it. Questions about how many exactly we have in the Netherlands and where they are, are difficult to answer because we do not have a precise definition of them. Having said that, there is no excuse for companies that are not behind anything at all, but which end up somewhere in a tax haven through the Netherlands, and which I now see as letterbox companies. We're gonna take it down real hard. We're gonna take it down real hard. The second aim of the letter is to tilt the international and national image of the Netherlands. That's what I've said before. There's always the danger that it's not just about the image you're tilting, because apparently there's something else there. It's not meant to be. We are, of course, taking a lot of measures to put real policy into practice, but it is true that, apart from the policies we use, a negative reputation for the Netherlands has long been built up over the years. That's what's bothering us now. In the past, some very good choices have been made to do so, but my observation at the moment is that it was becoming a bit of a liability from an asset. That is one of the reasons why I am carrying out cabinet policy with extra enthusiasm. In short, the number of measures we are proposing is not nothing. I also realize that we are not discussing a bill here. The question of what exactly I'm going to do is what we're going to do in the Chamber. But I am therefore pleased that we are already able to discuss these policy proposals with your Chamber to see if there are any elements that I can take with me when it comes to shaping legislation later this year and also next year. The image that I'm really trying to change is a kind of watershed between what we're doing now and what we've done in the past, despite what's been done in this area by previous Cabinets. I was also pleased with the OECD's recent visit, which has already been mentioned. Pascal Saint-Amans visited a seminar on digital economy. We in the Netherlands also want to know about this. He came to talk about that. During the day he told the outside world, but also us, that he was really impressed with the plans. Of course, the proof of the pudding is in the eating. That's what he'd say: see first, then believe. And in all honesty, I don't think that's an unfair idea when you look at how things have happened in the past, not only in the Netherlands, but also in many other countries. Maybe I can go straight into another discussion that just stopped by. Commissioner Moscovici had said something and I had responded to it. Then I had a conversation with him, among other things about the plans. They fell into goodness with him. He was pretty impressed, too. But for him it was the same as for the OECD: let's see if it is transposed into legislation. That's what I've been working at the IMF myself. It's a logical first reaction from an institution: these are wonderful political plans, but let's see what that gets out of there first. I've never seen that as some kind of ear wash. The report he presented was from before I presented my policy agenda. It would've been weird if he could've taken that with him. In the press conference he explicitly mentioned the conversation I had with him that Monday and that he looked hopefully at the plans that the Netherlands has. I had a feeling I needed to fix that. It is not the case that the Commission does not see what we are doing. The Commission can see that, but rightly says what has also been said in this Chamber today: first see, then believe. It is not just the Commission that is working. I would also like to remind you of what has been mentioned twice: the OECD and the BEPS project. That's an English abbreviation for base erosion and profit shifting. It was actually a project that mainly aimed to prevent an international base erosion, i.e. the erosion of each other's bases and profit shifting, because it is, of course, a part of this process. The OECD was right to say, and that is what this cabinet thinks: no country can solve that alone. This will ultimately require the cooperation of a very large group of countries that share it with each other. I was very pleased that the OECD took this initiative. From the IMF, we also strongly supported this at the time, because it also affects the real economy. For the sake of clarity, the Netherlands has always actively participated in this project, participated in the working group and actively contributed to it, especially when it comes to issues such as transparency issues, but also when it comes to issues such as adapting the multilateral treaty, the MLI. We really think that if you have a lot of tax treaties and you want to apply these new rules, you have to negotiate them bilaterally with each country. It's just a system where everyone can fill out a form. If you tick your own tick and check the other country as well, then it is bilaterally arranged at that time. That makes it a lot easier to make real progress instead of having to deal with 150 tax treaties alone as the Netherlands, where you can see how complicated it is when all countries have to do so. These are exactly the elements I welcome, which this cabinet welcomes and which I myself am now putting in place in my own way. A number of anti-abuse directives have also been mentioned, which we have supported in Europe. This also applies to the fact that the previous cabinet has already started to do so. So it's not entirely new of us; there's really been an active negotiation in previous Cabinets. Transparency is an important element of these directives. I also mention the country-by-country reporting, ensuring that everyone is aware of structures, exchanging rulings, creating joint reporting standards and so on. This cabinet is now going to implement the agreements made by the previous cabinet in Europe. These are the well-known ATAD 1 and ATAD 2 directives. Now what we intended at the time must be given hands and feet. Asked why we do things to a greater extent. This has to do with the fact that, in some of the cases I have just mentioned, we do not decide on the European minimum, but on our own. This does not mean that we are pre-empting all those other European countries on our own, but it is also not the case that we always opt for the pit, the lowest possible level of implementation at every choice. Sometimes there are elements in it, which we really think will help if we all try to get the bottom up a little bit. I have just said something about the image of us. He's often been wrong. Nevertheless, it is up to us to make it clear that this imagery is unjustified and that it is mainly about a Netherlands of a large number of decades ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u108	I have a question about the minimum requirements, which I have also raised in my first term. The Secretary of State says that the Netherlands is doing more than necessary in a number of respects according to the minimum requirements laid down in the directives. Relevant to this is what all other countries do. A minimum requirement can ultimately be a requirement that has been reached in a compromise and may only be applied by the British. So relevant information is: what do other countries do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u109	That's a fair question. The same applies to other countries as to the Netherlands. We have all adopted these directives and we are currently implementing them. So as far as many situations are concerned, we only know what the debates in other countries are about, but there are still few real laws. So here we hear more about intentions than about outcomes, but of course it is also important for our own positioning to know what those other countries are doing. I will come back to this shortly, but I cannot already give an overview of what all the countries are going to do, because that legislation is not yet in place at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u110	Second question, Mr. Quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u111	Can the Secretary of State give me the undertaking that, in all the legislation we are about to see in order to implement the directives, we will get a paragraph each time, stating what other Member States are doing or intending to do in the application of the directives, so that we can really judge whether the Netherlands is taking the lead or doing the same thing as other countries or doing the minimum?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u112	I think that commitment would go a little too far. There are all kinds of questions coming up, even today. So is the question: what are you looking at when we come to legislation? Well, you then look at, for example, its own locational environment and whether a measure is effective. So you look at what happens abroad. In any legislative proposal or measure we come up with to explain what the intentions of other Member States are, I think it goes a little too far, but I understand the question very well. Once again, when we present a law, there is an explanatory statement, in which you generally take these kinds of elements with you. So that's no different than usual. But to say here that from now on there will be a list of 28 intentions from other countries in this area, would be a little too labour-intensive and I do not think what Mr Snels would like to achieve either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u113	Mr. Snels...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u114	Quickly, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u115	Then Mr. Edgar Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it's a little strange. We are only a short while away from answering the question, and I have already heard twice that in Europe, in the world, there is something about us which the Secretary of State does not really believe is true, and yet we are taking measures that go beyond what is necessary. I don't understand the combination. If the Secretary of State really thought we did things wrong, I understand you might overreact. But he's actually saying, like the PVV, that the image doesn't add up. Then why is it necessary to take measures that go beyond what is required of us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u117	I understand the question, but that's a bit of a misunderstanding. Because this is the picture that we are only doing this because we've had on our heads from the evil outside world. Well, that's not how I'm gonna be. I think you should believe intrinsically in what you do. So apart from what that outside world thinks, we have here a number of measures that I present to your Chamber in policy proposals and what we are discussing. I'm not doing this because I've had my head turned on by others. What I do say is that, at the moment we are implementing measures, it is good to know how they are responding, including abroad. So does it help us to do something that everyone sees as a new way of tax avoidance? I don't think so. I think you should really try to show that something is serious. We'll come up with more specific choices later. There will soon be many more specific choices in the legislation, and that is what we will be discussing. I certainly don't think that I'm making up for something with some sense of: ooh, we've been so hard touched by the evil outside world and now we're gonna change our system. My own analysis is that it is beneficial in the end, and that is what I said in the letter to make choices at the moment that may be different from ten years ago, because I think they are helping us and, above all, because I think they are helping our real business. I will come back to that later in reply to Mrs Lodder's questions. This is not meant to bully real business. One of my priorities in my policy letter is that I want to make a very attractive Netherlands for companies. Taxation is an important element in this, but certainly not the only one. There are a lot of other things that count. So that just stays there. In addition, I would like to target this stream, the streamers or those mailboxes that the Netherlands only want to use for tax reasons very precisely. I just want to make that clear. I do not want to miss the opportunity to stop it if I have it within a European directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u118	Second question, Mr. Edgar Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Then I'm stuck with a little problem. I hear the Secretary of State say all the time that an image of the Netherlands has been created. My question is therefore very specific: has there been an image of the Netherlands over the past ten to fifteen years that is not right? Does the Secretary of State think that that image is incorrect or does he think it is correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u120	I just mentioned a Commissioner who found something and who had all kinds of qualifications about it. I said that, in a sense, I thought that was somewhat inappropriate. I used another word, perhaps a little more neat than the word "inappropriate." Why did I find that? Because every time it was about a situation before 2007. Then he took an example somewhere and that was no longer the situation that suited the Netherlands. I get that. In the case of reputations not only in taxation, but probably also for football clubs or for companies which may not be justified at all, it is true that they can last for a very long time. If you don't agree with that reputation and it bothers you, for example because that real business is bothering you to settle here, there comes a time when you not only have to do what you have to do in policy actions, but you also have to do something about reputation issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u121	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u122	Then I come to capital flows. Mrs Leijten and Mr Azarkan asked. That's the cup. The Netherlands has an open economy. We're internationally oriented. For us, the inflow and outflow will always be greater than for a country like America or Germany. That's what we'd like to do. We want our entrepreneurs to be successful, also across borders, and so the Netherlands has an extensive treaty network, for example a participation exemption, so that our companies can compete with foreign competitors in equal terms. A not insignificant element is also giving advance assurance on existing laws and rules and tax implications of proposed legal acts. I don't want to interfere with those three elements either. They are there and they are important for the Dutch location climate, just as they are important for Dutch entrepreneurs across the border. They're standing. But you could say that this international orientation always gives us a higher level of influx and outflow. I agree with the people who say: if you look at the size of the Netherlands now... I still had numbers of 4,000 billion inflow and 5,000 billion outflow here, but apparently today there was an OECD report containing 4,500 billion. Maybe they've taken the average of inflow and outflow, but at least we know that part of it is pure and only flowing, even though it's very difficult to name it exactly. There is little real economy behind that, so our economy is not making much progress. It is the current that I say: yes, it does not benefit us very much, so I want to do something with it. This does not mean that we want to go to some kind of average inflow and outflow of a country such as Germany or France, because they are much less capital intensive in terms of economy than the Netherlands. I think we should also be a little careful not to hang everything on these in- and out-flow rates when it comes to tax competition, because by far the majority of these figures are simply related to real investment flows through the Netherlands. Anyway, the part I just outlined is often used or abused, so to speak, as if these flows were only caused by tax planning. So it's not. Mr. Chairman. Then I've had my first block, I guess, in general. There were a few specific questions that I would like to take with me. The first was Mrs Leijten's and was about that huge FDI outflow that seemed to only grow. What I just said, so that a lot of money goes through the Netherlands, is true, just as it is true that the flows worldwide are always growing. If Mrs Leijten sees that they are growing with us, she should not say that the share of the Netherlands in the international perspective is also increasing, because it is growing everywhere. Capital has little limits and flows faster. So she has to be careful for that too. I do not want to take away the point she wants to make, but she must be careful not to paint the picture that the Netherlands has an increasing share. Moreover, the Netherlands, of course, has many head offices and from headquarters money also has to go to subsidiaries. That has nothing to do with tax evasion or avoidance. Those are very normal, logical currents. For that, too, they are taken into this stream. Maybe I'll explain a little more precisely what I just said. This number says something, but certainly not everything. Mr Azarkan asked whether it was true that 100 billion of untaxed profits flowed through the Netherlands. That would have been reported somewhere. To this he linked the question of what amount other countries would be short by the Dutch tax policy. I don't know exactly how he got these figures, but we can't just calculate or think about what is imbalance or not. We don't have any figures on that. It's also hard to determine. He must also be careful that everything that flows through one country is at the expense of another country or has been stolen from another country. Those were the words, I think. That's not true. For example, bilateral tax treaties divide bases between countries. One country can then raise in the Netherlands and the other can raise another. That's not weird, and it's definitely not cocks. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my second block. This is about protecting the basis, which is clearly an element that has been addressed in both European Directives ATAD 1 and 2. We also intend to introduce withholding tax on dividends, interest and royalties. In this small block, I may first deal in a general sense with a few elements that were discussed in the debate and then more specifically with individual questions. First of all, of course, the cabinet is taking measures to prevent the Dutch tax base from being undermined. I think it's not just this cabinet that does that, but that it always does. We do this in a very specific and complementary way through the implementation of the ATAD 1. Mr Snels asked about that. I'll answer that in a minute. That has a number of elements, but I will try to avoid the technique as much as possible. We have here the Earnings Stripping measure, which is also the result of a European directive. This is, for example, a reduction in interest relief. This is an important element when it comes to companies which are completely full of debt and then have a very large tax deduction. That is where we opt for an implementation that goes a little further, for example, than the European minimum. For example, we do not opt for a group exception, which would be possible but leads to a lot of flows that I do not think we want. We also choose a lower threshold. The minimum rate in Europe is 3 million. We choose one million. So if it's more than a million, you have to do something about it. Mr Nijboer also had a question about this. I'll go into that in a minute. What we are not doing is giving respectful effect to existing loans. With this measure, the cabinet therefore protects the Dutch tax base. The design also leads to a more equal treatment of equity and debt. That too is an explicit wish of this cabinet with regard to Dutch business. We are trying to remove the fiscal incentive that has always been there to advance debt against equity. This is a well-known recommendation from OECD and IMF. For banks and insurers, we also do so through the minimum capital rule, the so-called thin cap. In short, the cabinet thus promotes more equity.... we think that this is important and healthy... and reduces the tax benefits for debt. This also results in more stable companies and healthier economic relations, especially in the event of setbacks. That's what we've seen in the banking world. You want enough buffers, also on own funds, to make sure you can cope with the first setback without this leading to all kinds of capital flows from lenders of debt. The Earnings Stripping measure will be introduced by 2019 and the thin cap by 2020. That is not because we do not want to do so immediately or because we are quietly nesting on it. At least, in that sense, we want to do this carefully. They're pretty complicated measures. Here too, we must also be able to consult with the sector to see if what we are doing is effective. Then we have the Controlled Foreign Companies, the CFC measure. That too is an important measure. There's been a lot of talk about it. Mr Van Weyenberg also had a question about this. In fact, that is what we are trying to do to prevent a company from charging a very large profit to a daughter who does not carry out any real activity in order to close down the profit base in the Netherlands or in the country where it is taking place. This can be done, for example, by shifting mobile assets. In itself, there may be good reasons to do so, but we also often see that this is not the case. We are already trying to deal with such situations by means of transfer pricing rules. What we are doing now in the new proposals goes a step further. We do not just want to apply these transfer pricing rules, but we want to be able to lift them if we see that these structures end up in a tax haven or a blacklisted country. Normally that is not our tax base to do something with, but in this case we think it is important and then we are going to raise. That is the so-called CFC legislation. This has been discussed very long and much in Europe. I'm trying to tell you as simple as I can. It is important to ensure that all kinds of mobile assets cannot be redirected to substanceless entities in paradise. This measure for, say, the empty daughters will also be introduced as of 1 January 2019. That's the fastest possible logical moment we can do that. We just want to make it a bit of a rush. Then very briefly, but I see an action from the audience.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u123	If you'd like to finish this, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u124	I'm having second thoughts. They didn't really ask for it. You know what, this will come later. I'm gonna skip this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u125	Then Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u126	That CFC measure and the fact that it is being implemented ambitiously are very good. My question was about the effect. The Secretary of State adds a substance requirement, a demand that something really happens in another country. The concern and the question is whether this substance requirement is heavy enough to prevent a company that can make a lot of money with such a construction, from deploying such a construction instead of just putting $100,000 two people on the Cayman Islands and renting an office there, while making billions of dollars. My question is whether the Secretary of State will look very closely at this substance requirement in the course of its work in order to ensure that the objective he wants to achieve, and where I support him, is also achieved. If that is the case with the demand he has already announced, top, but I would like to ask you to keep a very close eye on it when it comes to its implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u127	Good. I actually came to the block of individual questions, in which this one was also present. Mr Snels also had a question about the implementation of ATAD 1. So I guess I'll answer that right away. ATAD 1 shall be imported no later than 1-1-2019. We have not been able to check so quickly whether other countries have already implemented concrete legislation. Probably not, because of course it was only recently agreed. As I said, we are going to follow it, but at the moment we do not have an understanding of it. Mr Van Weyenberg was right to ask again: what are these substance requirements? What do they mean? Are they effective? There the story: most countries have no substance requirements at all around CFC. We'll do something now. We are simply raising a threshold here. It may not be possible in all cases to prevent people from saying: we have that to do, we do. But most companies will say: we had put this structure in place mainly to avoid tax. The Netherlands is now going to set a threshold against this. Moreover, this substance must not be just two houseplants. There must be serious knowledge. Something really has to be done to do that, but we also expect a lot of companies to say: if the Netherlands does, we simply don't go through the Netherlands anymore. Through a lot of other countries that do not, they can still do so. Some of you will then say: good riddance. If it is purely and exclusively about tax avoidance, so do we. For most of these structures, this measure will already be quite effective. In fact, with the level of substance, we are somewhat in agreement with a previous draft law on corporations. Ultimately, we say: substance requirements are quite complex in European law. That is why a number of countries do not choose to do so. We'll choose it. We want to tackle the evils here, but we do not want to make it impossible for the good. I believe it was Mrs Lodder who rightly said: we must be careful not to scare people away with it either. Then you end up with an amount, a number and a measure that goes beyond most European countries. In short, the answer is that we think it is effective, I say to Mr Van Weyenberg, but we will certainly continue to follow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u128	If you ultimately want to measure whether what you're doing is really effective, then you need to have clear what the effective tax burden of companies is now. Then you can also see whether results will eventually be achieved. Then you have to agree on the flow. That 4,000 billion is about these special financial institutions, so it is about letterbox constructions. Today I received answers to questions in which the Secretary of State said: we do not really know what the effective tax burden of companies is in the Netherlands. I had asked about the tax burden of citizens and businesses. The answer was: we don't know. When does the Secretary of State think he can have that on paper, so that we can finally measure that what is now being deployed is also effective?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u129	I have to think very hard about how to make the link between this substance and flow issue and the questions I have answered to Mrs Leijten today. I have to be honest: I'm trying very hard, but I can't make the link yet. Otherwise, I would like to see if one of the officials in the benches understands where the link comes from and gives an answer. I will explain this in the second term, but I cannot quite put it together myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u130	Mrs Leijten can explain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u131	I'd like to explain, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has announced cubes and this was the block of base erosion, broadening the base, where you eventually pay profit tax on it. Then, of course, you need to know what the effective pressure is now to see if you are actually broadening that base, so that the avoidance and avoidance take place less. That's where it's coming from. That's what my question was about. That did not go any further on Mr Van Weyenberg's question. It was about establishment requirements. It was about the block you originally came from.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u132	I still find it a little difficult to think what I can say about this. I think we are having a discussion here about the cases where a company tries to channel its money through the Netherlands. That's what we're talking about. We do not want that if there is no real activity behind it. I do not think your question today was about measuring effective pressure in the Netherlands. I think it was about the division between citizens and businesses. What we are talking about here is: if we introduce a substance requirement in the Netherlands and that leads to an effective removal of a structure from the Netherlands, then it no longer pays taxes in the Netherlands. They can also choose to do so. Probably I still don't quite understand the question, but then I suggest that we answer the question in the second term, because then I'm sure I'll answer it better and to more satisfaction. I can't make much of it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u133	About the substance requirements of €100,000 and a small office. The problem is: in case there are two offices and three employees, we do not have a leg to stand on, while there can clearly be abuse or tax avoidance. I always understand from the experts, and that is why the European debate and comparison with European countries is relevant, that other countries do not want to impose such stringent requirements and apply an open standard, precisely in order to avoid this. They therefore leave it to the case-law, to have instruments to intervene in the event of obvious abuse. That is why the European debate is important, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u134	Of course it is important not only to do this in the Netherlands, but also in Europe. Once again, I think that we are going no less far than abroad, but that we want to continue with this. We also want to be able to make really visible, on the basis of laws and regulations and policies, when we find: there is simply no real activity here. I just said about CFC, by the way, that we are also strict here. So we have these two models, model A and model B. B is about transfer pricing I know him but model A simply says: if we see that in such a situation assets flow away to another country, regardless of substance or not, then we're just gonna lift up. I think this is a visible and serious attempt to target what we are talking about. Mr Snels says that you might have to do it with an open standard. I do not have an answer to the question as to whether that might be equally effective. I am pleased that people know what is going on, including legislators and companies, because we state: this is really the minimum and if you are underneath it, you are in principle not really present.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u135	Last question, Mr. Quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u136	The question is not 'far' or 'less far', because I do not think that is the question in this case. The question is: is it effective? I think that with such a very sharp definition, we will ultimately not be effective if it can be used to avoid tax with €150,000 and two small offices. That is why I am asking, based on the European debate, whether there are not more effective ways of doing this, so that we still have tools in our hands if it is obvious that tax avoidance is involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u137	I think the measures we are taking are effective, if only because we make it very clear that you will not get away with this. Most of the structures that aim to use the Netherlands as a streamer do not want to suffer from taxation or from real presence. At the moment we set this threshold, you will see that most companies that abuse the Netherlands will not, so to speak, settle here anymore. So they're leaving. One of the reasons that some of our anti-abuse measures do not produce so much money or even money is that there are companies that did not have the best interests with us, who want to leave the Netherlands. At least, they were never in the Netherlands, but they used the Netherlands as a port in linking up to a tax haven. In these cases, I believe that this measure is very effective. If that turns out to be disappointing and we do not see it happening in practice, then I think it would be a good idea to check whether there are better European methods. But for now, I think what we have in our hands is effective, far-reaching and is going to help us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u138	Mr President, I am going to ask a question without introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u139	Very good! Let's set a good example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u140	How many of the current letterbox companies that could be identified as being here just to avoid tax would be affected by this measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u141	So I can't answer that. I tried to explain at the very beginning that we cannot define the letterboxing very well. We all know about what we're talking about, but we can't define it and we can't name it in numbers at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u142	Then how did you come to this standard with the good-looking heads at the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u143	To this end, we have come together with the Chamber. Among other things, in the context of the corporation bill, we have had a wide-ranging discussion on this issue. We want to take care of the bad guys, so to speak. But there will also be small businesses that, for a very good reason, only have one person or two people sitting around like a trading office or whatever. We have to be careful not to target everyone right away. I believe that Mrs Lodders said that we should be careful not to criminalize everyone, including people who simply do their job. Eventually, we're trying to set a standard. That's what we're gonna look at. In the end, we've set the norm on what it is now. I think, once again, that by far the majority of letterbox companies that only apply to the Netherlands on paper suffer from every threshold. In fact, I think if we let the substance go down a little bit, we'll also have some roads. Anyway, then you get a little bit of "is it enough or not?" We come here, in consultation with your Chamber, I think. We think it's very effective. We also do not mind looking again later, as Mr Snels says. If it turns out that what we're doing now doesn't work at all, I'm the first one to say, shall we come up with something else? Of course, I want it to work, that's my policy commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u144	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u145	Then there was another question that has a bit to do with this, namely the housing corporations: the Earnings Stripping measure. We discussed this during the General Financial Reviews. This measure was not specifically intended for the corporations, but it does affect them. In the end, the cabinet's intention is to reduce the difference between equity and debt, which is why this measure has been taken. By the way, I say that housing corporations that are working on the sustainability of their housing stock will be welcomed by this cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Just now it was mainly about implementation to protect our own foundation. There are, of course, also forms of tax avoidance which do not come from one country, but which have to do with differences in qualifications between the Dutch tax system and the system in another country. A relatively well-known example is the so-called CV/e.g. structure around the Paradise Papers. In some German cartoons that is well explained, I found myself. That's a typical example. We have two tax systems that are not quite the same. In this case it was an entity of which the Netherlands says: it is not part of the Dutch base, so it is up to another country to tax. The other country has the tax duty, but does not use it. The company that acts on it thus ultimately does not suffer from the levy. In the past, we were able to live with the fact that someone else chose not to burden their own bases, but now we think with more and more people in Europe, the OECD, but also in Parliament too, that even if we are part of something that might be on the basis of another country, we will no longer lend ourselves for it, because then there will be the suggestion that we want to take an active role in it, and we do not want to do so. For this we have also agreed a directive in Europe: ATAD 2. I will refrain from any technique, but it deals mainly with combating all mismatches, i.e. cases where the systems are not compatible. That's a whole series. ATAD 2 is going to be implemented and transposed into legislation. That is quite complicated, because you not only have to deal with your own foundation, but also need to know more about the basis of the other country. As a result, we need a little more time for legislation. We expect to be able to implement this only in 2020, which is also the European agreement. Finally, the basic erosion of other countries. The "picking" of foundation could be said, as Mr Azarkan calls it. Again, there are some nuances in that. It is not always cocks, although it is sometimes experienced as such. Sometimes these agreements are very explicit, even in bilateral tax treaties. But we also want to prevent the Netherlands from being part of it. This category of measures includes our withholding taxes. They are called 'conditional' and indeed they are conditional, because not everyone is affected by these withholding taxes. This only affects companies that ultimately transfer profits to countries that are blacklisted, to countries that are zero or almost zero, or to countries that do not want to participate in OECD minimum standards. Those countries are all on a list. We still have to think about how to do that, but we are just laying it down in the legislation. The moment the tax flows to those countries we say: hoho. The Netherlands wants to impose a withholding tax on this. We will do this first for the dividend tax in 2020, at the same time as abolishing the ordinary dividend tax. In 2021, we do that around interest rates and royalties. The Netherlands does not really know the system of withholding tax. It's really new to us. When I talk to my legislators at home about that, we run into a whole bunch of new things, including in our own system. We're just gonna solve it and tackle it, but it's really one of the most complicated legislative processes we're gonna have in the next few years. It is our firm intention to make this a serious chocolate. The most important thing with regard to withholding tax is, I think, not so much when we finally introduce it as if it were the OECD and the Commission agree with me on the annulment effect: the effect of the announcement that structures that apply through the Netherlands to low-tax countries, for example through interest or royalty or dividend flows, are being addressed. You can expect that if tax advisors do their job well, this will no longer be structured through the Netherlands, because a withholding tax will have to be paid. It was asked: what should be the height of that? Before that, we are still working on legislation. This must have a little bit of teeth as we call it. So it should not be too low, because we also want it to be effective. But there are also a number of other elements. For example, you could match it to the amount of deduction you have in the Vpb. You could equate it with a dividend tax. We still have to ask for guidance on this for ourselves, but at least it is not a tax that is nothing. We really want to prevent this. I have already said very briefly that the multilateral treaty is important for this. I will not repeat that, but this too is a very useful way of setting up a number of elements from the OECD advice so that we do not have to do this bilaterally every time, but we can do it at once with a lot of countries at the same time. I think I've had most of the elements of this. It will come back later, but in the fight against tax avoidance and the letterbox companies, I have announced three investigations. They all have to do with this and can work on the different cubes. I am going to investigate whether, in addition to withholding tax or interest and royalties, there is still a need to tighten up the current Corporate Tax Act in order to prevent real interest and royalty flows from settling in the Netherlands. I am going to examine whether the exemption from participation can be modified in such a way that it no longer needs to be applied if the presence of a group in the Netherlands is limited to virtually substanceless intermediaries. That's from the same idea we were just talking about. I am also going to examine, as a third, whether the "at-arm's-lengths" principle, which is used for example for info cap and transfer pricing, needs to be adapted, because we feel that too much is sometimes used to channel the profit base from the Netherlands to a country with a lower tax. We also want to examine this very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u146	The Secretary of State mentions the participation exemption. This is, of course, an essential part of our system of taxation of profits. The Secretary of State made the point that an intermediate holding company, whatever that may be, which has no substance must by definition be Ecarrated. I support that remark, but will the Secretary of State undertake that this is done carefully and that the great good of the exemption in the domestic sense but also in the external relationship is maintained? We can see in the tax unit that, because of the Court of Justice, a fantastic internal arrangement with a foreign element can be put under such pressure that we might throw away the child with the bath water, as someone said this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u147	I cannot rush enough to say that I fully agree with Mr Van Rooijen on this. I have also mentioned this explicitly. I want to do a lot of things, but there are three pillars that I'm not gonna touch. The participation exemption is essential for the Dutch business community in being a successful entrepreneur, even outside our national borders. I am happy to give this to Mr Van Rooijen and all forms of love.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u148	Is it perhaps an idea, in all the discussions you have, to mention, and to have, to point out to the other countries that they are going to make better use of a participation exemption themselves? We look at the Netherlands because we have them, but other countries can have them too. Then the problem is in a completely different perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u149	On that point, too, I fully agree with Mr Van Rooijen. 'Cause you're already seeing it happen a little bit. In the past, a number of countries looked at these types of taxation with very shaky eyes, but they increasingly see the logic of it: if you believe in international trade and you believe that we can do this better than everyone else for themselves, the exemption from participation actually makes perfect sense. So we also see a number of large countries, also on the other side of the ocean, saying more and more: what they're doing in the Netherlands and we've been doing that for a long time, I can say, isn't that crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u150	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u151	Mr. Chairman. It was asked whether the abolition of the dividend tax would make the Netherlands not more attractive for tax avoidance in this block. I have already indicated that there is at the same time a measure whereby dividends to tax havens are taxed at once by a withholding tax with teeth. I do not therefore believe that the abolition of this can bring with it a great many new structures. In fact, I think that a number of structures that existed because of the fact that some countries did and other countries did not have a dividend tax will rather decrease. So I'm not expecting that at all. That power, everything that comes out of it, only makes sense if it goes to the well. We're going to charge a withholding tax on that current.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u152	What is the balance of these two measures for the Treasury?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u153	What two measures does Mr Azarkan mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u154	The one you just mentioned, namely the abolition of the dividend tax and the introduction of that other tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u155	I do not think we need to talk again about the cost of abolishing the dividend tax. We've talked about that a lot in this room. That's all there is to read. I have indicated, again today, that we have nothing in front of these new levies. We assume that the companies that use this as a transit route will then choose a different route. It is good to say the following immediately, because it has been said that all the money that is earned from this anti-abuse clause is all going to be in the Vpb's tariff reduction. This cannot be linked at all, because many of our measures do not produce that much money at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u156	The Secretary of State thinks that I would like to discuss this once again, but that is not true. From the documents I did not understand very well whether there are other revenues in relation to the abolition of the dividend tax, which costs 1.4 billion in total. I had the impression that you were suggesting this when you spoke about these new measures. If it's not, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u157	I certainly didn't suggest that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u158	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u159	One more question from Mr Van Weyenberg, and I also thought of Mr Azarkan when I could inform the Chamber about the choices concerning the new withholding tax. I have just tried to give a first look at what kind of arguments we have. In any case, it is important to point out that this applies to those countries that are blacklisted in the EU or those with a low statutory rate. On what a country with a low statutory rate is, we come up with further judgment. Eventually, that will be included in the bill. With great pleasure, I will discuss this with your Chamber. Mr Azarkan asked why we would not start to come up with the laws on interest and royalties until 2019. I have indicated this with the previous one, I think. We are already working on this, but it will take us another year to draw up the legislation for this. This is really a new, complex issue for our legislators because we do not know this withholding tax system very well in the Netherlands. Of course, we want to do it right at once and make it sustainable. That's why. So it is not a delay, it is just a matter of careful preparation. Mr. Chairman. I will focus on promoting transparency and integrity. A lot has been said about this too. We don't just want to do national real things with that. A comment has already been made on the way in which we look at the role of the advisers in this matter. It is sometimes also about the integrity of the financial markets. Think of the UBO register; think of the trust legislation that we want to tighten up. In short, it is also true that anyone who is involved in these structures must, in a certain sense, offer transparency and be accountable. But it is also about EU transparency. The mandatory disclosure directive was mentioned once today. It is a directive that we recently agreed on in Europe. In fact, it says that advisers who advise on an aggressive structure are, I believe, ten examples that show what an aggressive structure is, and will soon have a duty to report it to all the countries involved. This gives the services and others the opportunity to take account of these kinds of structures. It has had relatively little attention, also in the media, but I really think it is something that is very important. As a result, not only is it a company that is doing this or that is doing it right to make that absolutely clear or not, you can find everything you want to do about it, but also the advisers who are doing it in a way are called to account. I thought that was a very good measure of my own. The same is true in the case of country-by-country reporting, which I will mention in a moment, and the fact that the EU Code of Conduct Group continues to define what harmful and non-harmful tax competition is. One of the most important new steps in this respect is, of course, the EU's blacklist. We have said a great deal about this in the Chamber too. That's a really important step. All over Europe, we have chosen to have a list together and we are all prepared to take countermeasures if countries do not want to comply with it. I shall now turn to some of the questions that have been raised. I will go into that individually. Again, the cabinet commitment is very clear. Taking on base erosion is only effective if we are transparent about it. This must not only be done at national level, but also in line with EU regulations. I hadn't mentioned the disclosure of the criminal fine, but that's one of them. That also matters. If you, as a tax advisor or as a notary, have not complied with the rules and you can get a fine for that, we are going to make that public in the future. Some of these cases were already dealt with in the POFC. Now that Mr Nijboer is back, I will say it again: it is important that it has also been discussed there on the occasion of the Panama Papers. One point that came out of that, by the way, was the business case. Mr Van Weyenberg also asked about this. I'd like to say something about that in a moment. I think all these things are going the same way. We want to be clear about what we're doing. We want to be transparent about how we do this and we want to be transparent about the results of not only the national but also the international proposals on this issue. Mr Snels asked in that respect, I believe, whether all those advisers do not fear for their own jobs. Well, I don't know. I don't think it's up to me to say if anyone's afraid of their own job. I think you should be a little careful thinking that the whole tax advisory practice is just leaning on inventing all kinds of structures. In my opinion, tax advisers generally have a very good eye for this, even in changing circumstances and in terms of social attitudes. So I don't really want to participate in the idea that they're all out of a job because they don't want to go. By far most of them I know as people who just want to go along and match their own tasks to that. Moreover, we are going to be proposing a lot of legislation in the near future. This legislation is not always easy for everyone to understand. So I can imagine that tax advisors are going to do their best to explain our new policy proposals to the sector. So there's some work there too. Then the business case. How's that going? That is a good question, because I promised earlier that I would come up with it in January. I indicated in a letter to the Chamber that I was struggling with it a little bit. When making a business case you can of course make a kind of pure cost-benefit analysis. So what do you put in on tracking capacity and what does that get you? The problem is, however, that it is very difficult to link them precisely to a particular policy, because detection often involves several things at the same time. At the same time, you do want to make some kind of pure comparison. We have been working on it for a number of months now and, in all honesty, I have not become very enthusiastic about what that has achieved. But I still totally agree with the question. If you invest so much in extra tracking capacity and that's money, then you have to do it. That's a kind of peasant logic that I like. It's about the moment when we want to record that in a business case. It's not about an ambitious business case, because in a business case, you just let ambitions, wishes and the like go away. You're just gonna see if you can make, build a case, which you can say is so important that I can finally go to the Minister of Finance with the announcement that I need that money because it's gonna make money. But, of course, I do need a good basis for that. I'm still working on it. Again, we're struggling tremendously to get that done. I'll finally come up with the story to the Chamber, and I'll start very specifically with that Panama case. But if I had sent that to the Chamber before, we would have had something we probably wouldn't have been satisfied with. That's why I'd like to ask the Chamber to give me a little more time to get that business case around properly. Again, I understand the intention very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u160	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u161	Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer is also at the interrupting microphone. I think he would like to ask a question on this particular point. Then I think it would be good for the momentum of the debate that he interrupts first. Then I'll just grab something the Secretary of State said about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u162	You guys talked to each other about that? First, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u163	We're going well, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I held my motion on that. It is rare for such an active motion to take place, so that is a good thing. In my opinion, the letter shows that there is little progress. It was promised in January, and the Secretary of State now says: it is very difficult and difficult. I'd say it's got to be doable anyway. You should be able to estimate how much more it will get if you put 100 inspectors on a particular theme. It's not that complicated and weird, is it? That's what happens when you're abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u164	The fact that I'm not very excited yet has nothing to do with the amount of work we put into running this case. But I also understand that if I come up with the message that the business case is not or hardly running around, Mr Nijboer would say: that is a pity, because I would very much like it to run around. Then I say: be careful that we do not get some kind of wishful thinking, we want it to be true. If, during a budget negotiation, I come to my own Minister of Finance, who then says that it is a little lean, then that is no good to me either. Again, I'm struggling with it, because I don't disagree with the thought at all. In fact, I would like nothing more. But the business case has to be really firm. We're definitely gonna come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u165	The Secretary of State said: we are going to come up with a lot of laws and then we certainly need the tax advisory practice to translate them into the sector. I'm sure they will. They're getting paid to do that. The big problem is that in the process of writing those laws at the ministry, they often flatten the door and advise the ministry. Is the Secretary of State prepared to cut them off in making those laws?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u166	I have an answer to that in another block, but I can give it roughly now. We should be a little careful not to get the idea that someone is advising on legislation. The only advisors I have, they work with me in the Ministry. At the same time, we must not have the image that we are sitting in an ivory tower, that we are keeping our ears closed to reality and that we are going to write fine laws in the hope that it will all work out. Just as it makes sense that when you make laws in healthcare, you ask how that works out in a particular sector, so does we. We can make legislation that the advisers say: what beautiful legislation, but unfortunately it does not work, because in article hopperepup it is just as easy for us to do. Then there's no point. So what we are concerned with is not that we are advised, but there is no point in making legislation with the ears closed to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u167	During the interrogation of the parliamentary interrogation committee, which I happened to be in, it was simply admitted that the tax advisory sector is being used, because it is often too complicated for the Ministry. So they don't just advise their customers afterwards. They can exercise their influence in the public domain, in internet consultation and perhaps even through the Chamber. But they'll just write along. I really want that last one out. That's unhealthy. I want the Secretary of State with the good heads at the Ministry to put down a good bill. If we then have an internet consultation that contains something that is not good, we can all publicly see what advice has been given by who and how they are responding to it. I just want that shady preliminaries out. It seems to me that the Secretary of State wants that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u168	I do not think that consultation on whose sector the legislation is concerned is shady. I am not shy about my agenda, by the way. The suggestion of drinking a cup of coffee and making unhonorable deals is just not one of them. I keep saying what I just said. We want effective legislation. The NOB also writes open letters, not only to me but also to you and other Members of Parliament, which state: these are the proposals and this is what we think of them. I think it is right to look into whether there is something in it that we can use or not. That's how it goes. In my opinion, this is no different in this sector than in other sectors. Here too there is still a bit of the idea that it would all be shadowy, but it is not. On that point, I should like to go with Mrs Lodders. If you are making legislation, I think it would be wise to ask experts who are going to work with it on a daily basis what the impact might be. That's different than they're advising us, because that's what our officials do. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Weyenberg asked about the country-by-country reporting. He asked: that was a bit quiet; is there another shot at that? The Netherlands has been the most active or at least is in the leading group of active countries when it comes to pushing for progress and progress in this process. Moreover, some Member States still have reservations. We won't give up. We indeed hope that a number of election results in Europe will help to move this process forward. Is that a good idea? We hope so. At least we'll keep setting it up. I am also happy to keep the Chamber informed of our position on occasion, because country-by-country reporting is extremely useful and important, and not just in the area of taxation. It also applies to other policy areas. The Minister of JenV, for example, is also very helpful. It is important to ensure that we see what they do and where they do so in large international companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u169	Thank you for that commitment. Can I interpret it in such a way that the Secretary of State or our representatives in Brussels will urge the current Presidency to do so very quickly? Will this also stand up to some who try to delay with complex debates on whether or not unanimity?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u170	I will certainly be happy to do so, because we think this is important. I assume, by the way, that we have already done so. But just so we're clear, if we haven't done this actively enough. This encouragement is helping me a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u171	Then I would indeed like to hear from time to time how things stand with that. I'll get back to you on the blacklist. I don't like separate letters if I don't have to. I can imagine that this can be done on the agenda for the Ecofin Council. That saves us some separate letters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u172	That's a beautiful little bridge to the blacklist. That was the next item on my agenda. We have already discussed this in detail in several AO's. It is not our objective to have a blacklist with as many countries as possible, because that would mean that as many countries as possible would not meet minimum standards. Our real policy commitment is, of course, aimed at ensuring that everyone ultimately meets international standards. In that case, there would be no blacklist. The reality is, of course, that the desire for everyone to comply with our minimum standards is still far away. We currently have a blacklist of nine countries. But even more importantly, 63 countries have rushed to indicate that they do want to comply with the legislation but do not yet do so. This is also being tested in the EU Code of Conduct Group. That's an informal group. It is then established in the EU at Ecofin level. I certainly do not expect these 63 countries to have implemented all the measures that we are looking at, among other things, by next January, and that some of them will be blacklisted. This is very important because we are going to use the blacklist in our own legislation for counter-measures. The point is that it is not just naming-and-shaming, which has already been very helpful, but that we should come up with counter-measures if they ignore naming-and-shaming. They are included in the withholding tax, for example, but also in administrative measures that they should take. Mr Van Weyenberg also asked what is happening and what is happening. Before the summer recess, he asked me if I could indicate how many countries are now out of business. Actually, I'd like to report the progress every day. The point is that we have given these countries until 1 January to amend legislation. I can say that before the summer recess I come up with a story, but it may well be that there is no progress, because countries like us do not legislate until the autumn. I fully agree and would like to continue to talk about this. Perhaps we should continue to do so in AO's, when things happen or when countries say: we do not want to get off the black list at all, we feel at home there. I hope not, I must say. So I would like to keep the Chamber informed, but I do not really think there is a modified list in the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u173	I get that. Many countries have promised to improve and it is important to see if they are actually showing that improvement. I would actually ask the Secretary of State to take care of two things. You can do that with a short note at another time. The first is a very active plea for greater transparency, including on this issue, in the EU Code of Conduct Group, so that we can monitor it ourselves. I'd like to hear back if that worked out. The second is at a number of moments holding a little finger on the wrist. The Ecofin Council will then be able to do so, but it will also be possible to do so separately. I understand that in the second half of the year most of the countries are likely to take action. I would like to have a feeling in September, October, November and December that we are not going to see them all back on 1 January, or that they are trying with all kinds of delay to stay on the grey list when they do not deliver. We don't want that at all. Anyone who hasn't delivered should just be on that blacklist on January 1st.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u174	I fully agree with Mr Van Weyenberg. I've said that a few times. I used the word "rücksichtslos." In the past, we have given a number of countries a little delay, for example those affected by a hurricane and at that time were doing something else. But it has also been said to those countries: in the end there is a trap axe and it goes into effect on 1 January. If you don't meet, it's black and white. Then you go to the blacklist. Or you've satisfied, and then you're not going there. So I totally agree with that. Moreover, I believe that I have already said in a previous Ecofin Council that we strongly support full transparency around this EU Code of Conduct Group. We continue to argue in favour of this and have already put it on the agenda a number of times. We will continue to do so. The good news is we already got some change. For example, around that blacklist we have received all the letters from the EU to the countries on the greylist. That was hard to do, too. So you can also see that "frapper toujours" helps. We will continue to do so, even when it comes to determining the judgements in the EU Code of Conduct Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u175	Really the last question, Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u176	Certainly, Mr. Chairman, the follow-up question. That sounds good to me. I'd appreciate it if we could get an overview sometime in the autumn. I am not going to ask you to report on these countries every month, but I would like to get a bit of a picture in the course of the autumn. Could there be a moment in which we can get an overview of who is at the time and who is not, also to ensure that we do not have to be sherlockholm here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u177	I even want to move on. If I can see any changes to that list before the autumn, any planned legislation or implementation of it, I would like to share this with your Chamber with more than a great deal of love. That's important. I just agree. Once we have useful information, we will share it with the Chamber as soon as possible. Then I have a short block of tax competition. There hasn't been much talk about it today. I think it is important to stress once again that you have tax competition and harmful tax competition. The EU Code of Conduct Group we were just talking about makes a clear difference. It is therefore not the case that a country with a lower rate is, by definition, playing a mean game. They may have dealt with their cases more efficiently. They can have a cheaper government. They may want to pursue a different level of public expenditure. We must therefore be careful not to see any reduction in tariffs immediately as harmful tax competition or a race to the bottom. That's, I think, the most important thing. We've talked about the race to the bottom before. During this cabinet period, the Netherlands will reduce the general Vpb tariff from 25% to 21%. We certainly do not end up in the bottom but more in the middle. We then find ourselves in a category of countries that you should mainly look for in Scandinavia. I would also like to stress once again that the Netherlands and this cabinet not only want to tackle streamers, but also to make the real business here pleasant. Reducing the Vpb is one of the measures that we have proposed as a cabinet and which we are also going to implement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u178	The Secretary of State spoke about reducing corporate tax rates. Does he also wish to take further consideration of the fact that one of the reasons for this race to the bottom was that we allowed Ireland, when that country joined, to enter at a very low rate? It was also agreed that they could keep it. Hasn't so much time passed by now that we need to talk about this for once? Indeed, it has meant that many companies went to Ireland, including real companies with production activities. It's gonna get us all mixed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u179	It is true that at the time Ireland was a country with one of the lowest nominal rates. It was therefore not included in the list of harmful tax competition and this was measured as follows. You have a kind of nominal rate and on top of that you can make some arrangements that allow the effective rate to go down a bit. But if your nominal rate is low for everyone, then that harmfulness element is hard to calculate. Ireland could easily do that because it did not have an economy or barely had an economy. Ireland therefore did not have a large business of its own. If we lower the general Vpb rate, we do not only do it for foreign companies. We also do that, I think rightly, for Dutch companies. It is also what we want, because we do not want to give the benefits only to foreign countries. It was very easy for Ireland and the Netherlands complained some ten or fifteen years ago because our effective rate was well above that of Ireland and we were nevertheless on a number of lists. As you can see, Ireland no longer has the lowest rate, because other countries have overtaken Ireland with lower rates. Hungary was just mentioned. You can assume from me that it is absolutely part of the discussions that we have and will continue to have all these years. We have to be careful that these comparisons are fair, but they may be somewhat separate from the measures taken by the cabinet. We are also not at Ireland's level at all, but, neatly, at a reasonable rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u180	The reason I am asking the question is that over the past fifteen years, even in difficult years for Europe, the Netherlands and for the Dutch economy, many concrete production, trade activities and financial activities have gone from the Netherlands to Ireland. This is therefore an obvious heavy result of tax competition and the European Union's admission of such low rates. You mentioned Hungary and it is getting worse. It is harmful to all countries for their own activities if there is the possibility of a transfer to another country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u181	That discussion is well known. We know them too, and I don't disagree. You should look at more than just the measures taken. In the end, it's about the whole package. At the same time, the Netherlands also considers it important that it remains a national matter of how high we set taxes and how we distribute the burden between companies and citizens. It's still a difficult discussion. We may be very angry at what Ireland and Hungary are doing, but at the same time a number of countries will be angry at us for what we are doing. I think everything we're talking about today is really helping. In a way, we say: everyone has to make their own choices. I fully support this and so we also make our own choices about the dividend tax and the Vpb. At the same time, there are points where we can all act effectively against tax avoidance and evasion. We can attack offensive structures that we no longer want to see, for example mailboxes, but we can also make offensive policies to make the Netherlands an attractive country of residence, not only for tax but also for all kinds of other reasons. That too is what I am and is the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u182	This is your last question, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u183	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues have also mentioned a minimum corporate tax rate. Can the continuation of this discussion not help to change the minds of countries such as Hungary and Ireland, thanks to the annulment effect that might arise?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u184	We have also discussed this before, in my opinion, in the General Financial Reviews. I believe that the whole discussion on whether you can come up with a European basis at all has been going on for two decades. The positions in this area are far apart. In all honesty, the Netherlands is not very much in favour of this dossier, apart from the fact that a lot of problems are not solved at all if you make it optional, as proposed in this proposal. You can then choose both national and EU, but then you still have two foundations. It is not a very pleasant proposal for the Netherlands when it comes to the distribution of all business revenues. We are not in favour of it yet. It is very far from my bed to speculate on minimum rates, while you do not yet know on what basis they are determined. Moreover, there are no proposals from the Commission to which we must respond. I'd like to leave it at that. Nor is it for nothing that I do not go into this issue in detail in my letter. By the way, Mr Nijboer had the question of why the cabinet chose to use the entire refund in the Vpb fare for this race to the bottom. Again, I don't think the cabinet chooses that at all. Broadening the basis is part of the same plans. A part of it he mentioned himself when it comes to earnings stripping. Besides, I still think it's an important graph. I think we have shared this with each other before, or at least the figures out. If you look at the Vpb that we receive as a basis of GDP, you can see that it has increased considerably since mid-2013. You first saw her go down and then you saw her go up. This has more to do with the economic situation than with a Dutch choice for a race to the bottom. On the contrary, the GDP is currently increasing as part of GDP and as a percentage of our total tax revenue. Mr Snels asked whether the Netherlands would join the anonymised basis and a European minimum rate. I think I have just answered his question with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u185	It is rather weedy that the tax on profits is increasing now that the economy is doing so well. That's what the Secretary of State has just indicated. However, it is the long-term trend of taxes on capital, capital and profits. You can see them taking away all over Europe. I have already sent the Secretary of State, I believe, an article in which those analyses were included in the first week. You actually want to turn this trial around. I am, as the Secretary of State knows, very much in favour of broadening the basics, because it generates money. I would say: keep that money and do not reward companies again with lower rates, because then you have actually won nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u186	I understand very well that Mr Nijboer had done this differently from this cabinet. That's fine and his right. I believe that this coalition agreement has been chosen to allow the business community to benefit from the good picture. When it comes to corporate taxes, we have said that we want to broaden our base, which we consider important, while at the same time reducing the general rate. That is indeed a political choice. I think that we are doing the right thing and that this is the time for that. It's not like we're gonna use this as the frame that I'm trying to avoid... taking part in some kind of race to the bottom when we end up at 21%. The bottom really is on very different levels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u187	That too... I am very glad that the Netherlands does not go all the way towards 15% and 12%, that would be quite a bit. Of course, it doesn't help if you say in Europe that you're competing with each other, and then as the Netherlands, you're going to have to make a pretty big profit tax reduction. That's not helping. Other countries then think: maybe we should do it. Then they'll follow. It is like the top rewards of drivers that we had a debate about yesterday. They go in one direction and the Netherlands participates. That's a bad thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u188	This discussion is also beginning to look familiar to me. So we are not just giving this reduction, we are also broadening the basis. That's what we do at the same time. Then I have two more questions from Mrs Lodder. One was mentioned earlier in the debate: how can we prevent entrepreneurs from being dismissed as potential criminals? We really have to do everything we can to prevent this, because this cabinet does not only have citizens, but also business. Not only large businesses, but also SMEs. That's what we were just talking about. Some of these measures not only benefit large businesses. On the contrary, if you look at the CPB calculations, you will see that small and medium-sized enterprises are also benefiting from a number of measures we are taking. Moreover, we are not only trying to make them happy in the field of taxation, but also in a number of other areas. People sometimes ask if we can do more. That is a good question and we will certainly look into it. In any case, it is important to stress once again that business, big and small, is at the heart of our economy and of our prosperity. We give them a warm heart. We think it is important that the burden of this group should not be too high. That is why I would like to repeat a number of measures that are being discussed here today. Today's debate was more about burden avoidance and evasion. I am not trying to say 'but also, by the way' in every reply, but I am going to do that to Mrs Lodder, because otherwise she may feel that I am doing too little in this debate. This debate happens to be about another thing, but I really think it is important to point out that this cabinet is the last one, and I am entirely the last one, who would like to label entrepreneurs as potentially criminal. On the contrary, they are the heart of our economy. Location climate policy is important. It is also an offensive point that I hope we will talk about when I discuss my policy agenda with you. The question was whether we take into account the locational climate in each measure. That is a bit the same thing: let's talk about it first. The locational environment is, of course, an extremely important element in any measure. It's gonna stay that way. That's not new, it was under the previous cabinet. Then they called it "and-and-policy." We have some other terminology for that, but it is the same thing. We think it is important that we are in favour of this, but that is part of what we are talking about today: that we should tackle the streamers and the mailboxes. Mr. Chairman. That was my fourth block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u189	I'll take two questions in one. In particular, I asked how the Secretary of State really wants to prevent potential criminals. We agreed on the measures he mentioned, but I had asked for more vision. Perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to comment on that. My second point is that I asked in my speech to include explicitly and separately in each explanatory statement how the measure is weighted in relation to the locational environment, whether the measure is proportionate and whether the most balanced variant has been chosen. I didn't hear the Secretary of State go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u190	No, Mr. Chairman, that's right, also because I tried to explain that we always do. If we now make laws, we will not ignore the effects of a measure in the explanatory memorandum. A measure can affect the locational environment, the countries around us. Mr Snels asked whether we could also make a separate point about this. I myself think it is very important that you take the administrative burden with you when looking at measures. We used to have extensive Actal tests for that. I think a feasibility test is important. I think a proportionality test is important. Especially when it comes to European measures, we also have BNC sheets, in which we deal with all these elements. Much of the implementation we are doing here comes from Europe. So I totally agree with what is behind it, what Mrs Lodder wants, but I also want to be careful that we do not end up in some kind of official check-the-box, in which we try to indicate every time what a measure is expressed in euros. That can't often be, and in all honesty, given the pace in which we make laws here that can be in a year's time really not all effects are completely clear. But I am also trying to reassure Mrs Lodder here, because she says: 'this Secretary of State does not say yes to what I want, so he does not want it'. No, I want to! What I just don't want is to add a lot of administrative burdens, because every legislative proposal requires seven paragraphs to be ticked off. This means that we should do so for all tax laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u191	Mr. Chairman. You and the Secretary of State also know the VVD as a party that certainly wants to reduce the administrative burden. We must be very keen on that, even for ourselves. I'm trying to figure out how to measure that and how to look back at that trade-off. It is important not only for myself to be able to control the cabinet on this point, but also for business. Do we make the right choice, the right balance? If I don't see enough of that, it'll get complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u192	Once again, I am reassured by the fact that, fortunately, we are also consulting on the Internet when making legislation. We're asking about the effects. In general, business has not fallen apart when it comes to making it clear to us what these measures are all about. I'm all for it. At the same time, I would like to guard against the idea that it adds something if I always include seven paragraphs in an explanatory statement in which these things are measured. These points all come to the fore when it comes to the internet consultation. I hope they will also be reflected in the debate we are having here in the Chamber. If you have the impression that I have not been aware of this or that it is unclear what we have done, then I assume that you are simply asking me to do so. I'll take responsibility for that. My point is that I agree with everything. The feeling is that it's more effective for us to do that in a conversation than for me to become some sort of check-the-box-like accountant trying to uncheck these things. I don't believe in that much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u193	Your last question, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u194	I have a clarifying question. I got a link this afternoon to government.nl. This concerns the report of factual findings agreed specific work on the examination of the issued rulings. On page 13 of the 22 I see that this was not signed by the audit manager Rijk. Why is that? This can also be answered in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u195	Can I answer this question in the second term? I don't have page 13 in front of me. I'm sure there's a good reason. I think that research is simply signed off on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u196	You'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u197	I'll come back to that. Then my last block: the rulings that were the most debated today. I would like to say a few words in advance, and then I will go into the specific questions. First of all, I would like to make it clear that a ruling is not something shady with which you could make a price appointment in a dark room with a cup of coffee. That image came up every once in a while today. I say to everyone in this Chamber that a ruling is nothing but to give advance certainty within the framework of the law, policy and case law about the tax consequences of a particular legal act of a specific taxpayer. No more and no less. It's not a negotiation. It's not a deal. There's exactly the same outcome as a fact complex when you hadn't given any prior certainty. It is a fact that not everyone agrees with our policies, laws and regulations, so with the content of a ruling, but that's okay, that's what we can talk about. But putting it down again and again as if something more were going to happen there than we have agreed with the Chamber and everyone else in law and regulation, I would like to throw that off a little. That's just not the way it happens. Then you can find everything about the content of the rulings. We will certainly talk about this, but this is the instrument as such. It does not therefore lead to a more favourable financial treatment on the left or right than if it had been done afterwards. Therefore, the discussion of the ruling practice is essentially a discussion about the possibilities and inability of a tax law and regulation rather than a discussion about its appearance. A ruling contributes to legal certainty and enables efficient and effective supervision by the Tax Administration. That is also what I tried to indicate in my enforcement letter. You can also not rule and at the end the company can be allowed to apply a certain structure. That has a few drawbacks. 1. It takes a lot of research to see if they have complied with the laws and regulations. 2. The ex ante exchange of information with a foreign service is therefore impossible. So if we could choose whether we would do a particular structure, regardless of the fact that it would be nice for the company to have security in advance, with a ruling or without a ruling, it wouldn't matter for tax purposes. But with a ruling, at least we have the possibility to exchange information about it with the country that is also involved. In the attack on the ruling practice I always try to look back on that balance a little bit. It is also nice to ensure, when tackling tax avoidance and evasion, that we have the opportunity to exchange. Nevertheless, I am not saying that there is nothing wrong with the ruling practice as such, that it is perfect and that there has never been a mistake in that. On the contrary. After it became clear that a procedural error had been made in a particular case, I found a reason to conduct a major investigation, in which it was mainly examined whether the rulings of an international character were issued in accordance with all appropriate procedures. I also extended it when it appeared that procedural errors were made. Procedures often serve to ensure quality. That's about those two signatures. You could say that at the time a signature is missing, the probability is perhaps greater that the four-eye principle has not been applied or that a mistake has been made in the content. That is why I said that, in addition to the further investigation, I would also like to review all rulings on procedures, to see if there is anything to be said about the content. We have chosen a research design for this. We went through it all the way with the Audit Service Empire to see if this was the best way. Then we did so. The Audit Service has now shown that we have measured exactly what we were trying to measure in the investigation. The same investigation also showed that not all procedures were in line with the European guidelines. It also turned out that the number of procedural errors was less when we centralised with the ruling team than if we did outside. For example, it provided some insights not only on process, but also on content that gave us the intention to review the ruling practice. This is to ensure the quality and robustness of the Dutch ruling practice. Again, as far as I am concerned, the ruling practice is not under discussion. The recent developments mentioned above, the process investigation, the guidelines and also the agreements we made in the government agreement gave rise to this review. The revision is actually aimed at a number of issues, both with regard to the process and with regard to the content. More transparency will also be considered. That's like the third of the parts. All these things hopefully lead to a ruling practice in which fewer procedural errors are made, in which the rulings are more transparent for anyone who wants to know about them and in which they are also good in terms of content and testability. I'm not sure I'm going to go on, Mr. Chairman. We have three parts: the process, content and transparency. Maybe I can explain it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u198	Yeah, I'd do that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u199	Shall I do that first? The process is important. We continue, as I said, with a far-reaching centralisation of the issuing of rulings of an international nature. The process is also being adapted so that we comply with all European guidelines for issuing international rulings. Work instructions and policy decisions are also clarified, reducing the risk of procedural errors. In addition, I have a look at the content of the rulings. In my letter of late February, the 23rd was the belief, I have already indicated that, for example, we are also going to look at the substance requirements for advance security. There was no such thing and we say: shouldn't we also look at substance? I would also like to examine whether a further tightening up is desirable when giving advance assurance. I would also like, for example, to have an examination of whether I should give advance assurance for all forms of taxation. The subject I often mention as an example is that you see a structure in which there are a number of elements that all fit within laws and regulations. An sich wouldn't be illegal, but if you see all six side by side in one picture then you think: yes, is that a real image and is something seriously happening here? You can choose for that. So far, that possibility already stood if it was really frontier-exploring. Actually, we say, shall we extend that possibility? This looks so constructed, that we say: you know what, we're not going to give any security in advance. I think that could be an important step forward, especially when it comes to whether or not we are co-architects of a particular structure. We're never co-architects, but it's also about that image. I think it'll help if we take another good look at that. It is clear that we are therefore fully committed to transparency. So did the previous cabinet. There are still questions about this. The Netherlands is already transparent towards foreign tax administrations by complying with all international agreements on the exchange of information on rulings. Policy is published in public policy decisions. In addition, since last year, overviews have been provided with common appearances and exemplary rulings. Furthermore, this year the APA/ATR team has also presented an annual report on these issues. Each year rulings are examined by an independent committee with external independent professors, who also look at their content. I have also asked this committee, I think, to come to a section on which some questions were raised again today, whether we are giving an idea of our APA/ATR practice, which is good enough, with this policy, i.e. the current publication of models and exemplary examples. Or is it still necessary to publish, for example, anonymized all the rulings we have? We await the outcome of that investigation. I hope I get that as soon as possible. It is not true that we would be completely opposed to publishing anonymised rulings in which information has been wiped out. But if you remove business confidential data and the name from a ruling, we think you have exactly those exemplary rulings and those models; nothing more and nothing less. Belgium is often cited as an example. Look at what a Belgian lacquered version literally looks like and look at our models and exemplary rulings. I ask every Member of Parliament to think again about what the most information is. The outcome of my test is that I think that this way we will give more information and be clearer in what we are doing, compared to what we are doing in Belgium. Finally, there are a number of other committees of inquiry. We have the General Court of Auditors. It was mentioned that it will do another study in 2019. We will also share with the Chamber this autumn, or during the next half-yearly report, the results of the research we had this year on our APA/ATR practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u200	The Secretary of State says to me, to the Chamber, you can't say that the ruling practice is shadowy. But there's only one thing that needs to be made public, for example about Starbucks, IKEA, Nike or ICL, and it always turns out that there's always something going on. It's not tax avoidance, it's tax evasion, with an approval stamp from our tax authorities. The Secretary of State was not afraid of a hat for nothing, so he examined the 4,000 rulings on procedure. Now, if you want to keep giving that certainty in advance, you're gonna have to get rid of that shadowiness. You can put down models. I also had this discussion with the previous Secretary of State. The model of a pants doesn't say anything about whether it's winter pants or summer pants or pajama pants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u201	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u202	My question is, why don't you just publish? Wouldn't that just be the very best form? Then you don't have to aggregate anymore, you don't have to make models anymore, because you just publish. Then you say to scientists, journalists, MPs: go ahead and investigate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u203	We have asked this committee to investigate exactly this. If the committee really thinks that this gives more information on all the questions that the Chamber would have on this matter, then we are going to do the same. But that remains the question. We can say: it has to be anonymized publication. But what do you do if that doesn't give us any more information and we don't get anywhere with it, when it takes a lot of time and energy? After all, this is a big decision, and you have to go through the whole complex of facts. If that doesn't have any added value, then it's weird that you, as a driver, say, "Do it"? I think we'll have an issue if there's anything of shadowiness hanging around. That is why I asked this external committee of inquiry once again: give us that answer because we have been debating this for a long time. As we all do, we think that we are clearer than the countries that are often mentioned here in the Chamber. These countries are supposed to be transparent, but they do not publish everything. You can say: do it like this, but there's a lot of work in there and when it's done, someone might say: yes, but we already did. Then you ask yourself, is that wise? I have said: let this question not be answered by me or by you, but by this committee, which is already looking at the ruling practice. They therefore see all those forms of rulings and can say whether it is sufficient or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u204	If anything comes out about a ruling, there's something going on, we're stuck with our feet in shit and then the ruling practice is under pressure. If you make a WOB request, a MP doesn't do that, because they try to do it through parliamentary questions, but professors do................................................................................................................................................... Now an independent committee has to decide whether to publish. I'm sorry, but I'm a politician and I see it's possible in other countries. And I see this Secretary of State doesn't want to get rid of the ruling practice. I can imagine that you will continue to do so, but that you really want to get rid of the idea of just what comes out, is proof that the Tax Administration is rolling out the red carpet for tax avoidance rather than evasion. Both are undesirable. I do not understand why we have to wait another year for an independent committee to publish. Where is this Secretary of State's vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u205	The vision is very clear. When I make policy and as a driver have to make choices where I use capacity, I want to use capacity where it adds value. I did not set up a separate external committee to answer this question for me. There is an external committee at the moment already looking at that I have just indicated to the whole rule practice, including its content. We have asked them: 'Dear Commission, now that you have got such a good idea of the content of ruling practice, can you please help us by saying whether there is anything else we are not sufficiently transparent about?' If a ruling is nothing more than a set of agreements, an interpretation of the tax rules for that company at that fact complex, then we can put a lot of energy into that and then you are all disappointed. I don't think that's useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u206	Thank you. I think you were in the middle of a rounding?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u207	Yeah, well, at least I was around the rulings right about now at my conclusion. There were a number of more specific questions, of which I hope to have had most in this discussion. Mr Snels asked: did the ruling practice of former tax avoidance work in hand? No. Once again, a ruling practice doesn't get in the way. A ruling practice is nothing more than giving advance certainty about a fact complex. If we hadn't given those rulings and those companies had done the same thing, the exact same thing would have happened. So nothing else has happened but otherwise would have happened within the framework of law, policy and case law. Mr Omtzig asked: what about this exchange? Are there any old rulings we're still not exchanging? The answer to that is quite clear: no. We are now basically done exchanging all those old rulings at EU and OECD level. It is true that we were at the OECD a year later than we first hoped. We were certainly not the only country, but we have now said: let us do so on 1 January 2018. We did it. We also met the deadline of 1 January 2018 at EU level. This finally completes the exchange of information on existing rulings for us. Mr Nijboer asked: why does the information come out just a little by little every time we wobble and why doesn't information go to the Chamber itself? I have said, and I hope and think my predecessors too, that if there is any relevant information, we would like to bring it forward. For example, we recently found in a letter information about a group financing scheme, at least on the development that had been there. In a WOB request, such things were once asked for. This was specifically about rulings with the APA/ATR team, which was at the time part of the Tax Ports Coordination Group and Concern Finance. Unfortunately, it hadn't come up by then. That's what I said in the first place. We now come across it in a new WOB request. Later on, I said on my own behalf: let me share that with your Chamber. I see this now, it's important information, you've asked for it before, I think, so I'm going to give it to you. So it's not like something just comes up through wobbly. If we come across information of our own, I would certainly like to share it with your Chamber. I'd like to do that without further ado. Even though sometimes an image comes out that we all are not happy with, it is how I am in it. I would just like to have a complete set of information in the Chamber so that we can have this discussion properly. Mr Omtzig asked what exactly is going on with this group financing regulation. Since when have they been issued, are they still being issued and what is the state of play? The answer is clear. We have stopped doing this since 2007, when the group financing regime was abolished. On request, security has been given in advance. In 2014, the last rulings were extended for a further two years at the request of the taxpayers, as the international discussion had not yet been crystallised at that time. I think that was also in my previous reply. These rulings were in line with the law, policy and case law at the time. These rulings were no longer issued after 2016. That, I think, is the essence of this. Mr Nijboer asked whether it was true that only a rate of between 5% and 7% could be agreed. So the answer is no. Dutch profits are always taxed at the normal rate of 25%. This was a profit that was allocated to abroad and was taxed much lower. That actually concerns the discussion we just had. There were possible structures that could shift the foundations. The Dutch part was simply taxed by 25%, but because part of the profit tax was in a low-rate country, the total effective pressure at that time was much lower. That is true, but it is not true that the Dutch tax base was suddenly 5% or 7% by means of a tariff agreement. By the way, again, this has not been part of what is happening since 2016. Mrs Leijten then asked whether a technical briefing on IKEA would be withheld from the Chamber. Well, fortunately, I would almost say that Mrs Leijten is not right. I promised the Chamber a technical briefing and that promise just stands. I also said that we will do so once the Commission has taken the opening decision on IKEA, because there is no case before that. It wasn't until that moment that they knew that was gonna happen. This week they have announced that it will soon be published in the Official Journal. The offer I made, and it still stands, is that the technical briefing can take place with the Chamber at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u208	I'd like to know how far you're going with the answer, wouldn't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u209	I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u210	Okay, then I'll give you an opportunity to correct something, Mrs. Leijten, because I saw you shake no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u211	I just want to make it right that I didn't say we're not gonna get it. We get the secret, decided, while everything's in the paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u212	That's right. It is actually customary that we do not say anything about individual cases. In this case, as a major exception, we conclude that it is important enough, also because part of the information is public, and that we would like to discuss it with the Chamber to explain what was going on, what the role of the Netherlands was in the whole and how we want to deal with it. Mr. Chairman. Then I guess I've had most of the questions. Let's see. Oh, there was another question about relative substance requirements. Mr Snels had a number of suggestions for this and Mr Omtzigt asked: is it logical to apply or apply the same minimum substance requirements for small and large enterprises? It is true that we know one demand. Furthermore, we think that the suggestion of doing something with this is worth doing. At least we can find out. I am thinking above all of giving advance assurance. It is quite difficult to do this, by the way, because you have to prove an abuse situation. The question is whether you can relate that to the size, but we think it's a nice suggestion and we want to see if we can make some of that. Then to Mr Omtzigt's question: why are there so few underlying rulings requested? That's a good question. Because we've all agreed to exchange these things. Then we're all gonna do that. When you see how many countries ultimately ask for our rulings, there are relatively few. In a way, we ourselves have been somewhat surprised by the lack of interest, you would almost say from other countries about what is happening to us. So we started with a special team within the Tax Administration that analyzes the information about the rulings in other countries itself. This risk analysis also includes the information that the Tax Administration had at its disposal. Fortunately, that was often sufficient. At present, in 17 cases, we have requested the underlying rulings. We also continue to look for the reason why other tax administrations have not yet done so to us. That could be a capacity issue. I think that's an interesting question and we're gonna see if we can come up with more information on that... sorry, I mean, look it up. This wasn't a freudian slip.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u213	Well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u214	I was looking at the next question. It is also Mr Omtzigt's: can a single-man SME be given a ruling? The answer is: yes, anyone can get a ruling. That is, in fact, a guarantee in advance. How's that going? What information do you need? This naturally depends on the tax administration's enforcement strategy. It depends on how or what, but giving certainty in advance is part of the enforcement strategy, not only to large companies, but also to small and to citizens. Then there were a few technical questions, but I'll leave them for the second term. I think I've answered most of the questions. When did the Committee of Inquiry begin, I think Mr Omtzigt asked. What is the status of this Committee of Inquiry with regard to the rulings? Why wasn't the design of the investigation given free rein? The answer to that is as follows. The independent committee was set up at the end of 2017, after we had established this. At least that's when that committee was formed. They started in 2018. The committee is now investigating the year 2017. In our view, this gives a good picture of the existing ruling practice. The years do not differ as much when it comes to the kind of rulings that are established. To do that yourself now might be a little double-up. By the way, there was an internal research group earlier. It's been visualizing 2016 and earlier. The General Court also carried out investigations in 2014. So our feeling was that with the number of investigations into the ruling practice in the past five we have certainly not been economical. We have not only carried out our own investigations, but also bodies such as the Court of Auditors have carried out investigations. By the way, the results of the Committee of Inquiry will be sent to your Chamber with the half-year report which will shortly be sent to you. Why was only a second signature tested, was requested by Mr Omtzigt at least. That's not true, as I've just tried to explain. To begin with, we looked at the second signature. If that is missing, you have to ask yourself whether the four-eyed principle has been applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u215	I think it was a question from Mr Azarkan. Can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u216	Oh, you can do that. But it is not the case that it has remained so. We've been working together on how best to get these 4.462 rulings out of my head. We have made a distinction in what goes to the APA/ATR pathway and what falls outside. Apart from that, we look at the content of 10% of all rulings: are there procedural errors in this? In short, without going through those 4,462 files, we tried to get a representative picture of the ruling practice. We have tested this with the ADR and it has made its findings known. For our opinion, we've done it more extensively than ever. Again, we've come up with some pretty spicy findings. I didn't run away from that either. In fact, I have tried to turn them into actions and commitments that I have just shared with your Chamber. Those were my answers, leaving aside the questions about the digital economy for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u217	I've been counting for a while, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u218	Oh, yeah, that's what you do with financial spokesmen. Last question, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u219	I had asked about the effects on housing corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u220	I think I answered that when Mr Nijboer was not in the Chamber for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u221	That was at the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u222	Yeah, I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u223	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u224	To help Mr Nijboer a little: the answer was not very different from what we discussed earlier during the Financial Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u225	In other words?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u226	So it was conscious government policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u227	Mr. Van Weyenberg, you too...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u228	I had another question about the... this is my last interruption, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u229	No, no, no. Anyway, has there been a question left?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u230	No, I have a question about what was just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u231	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u232	You can't do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u233	No, I'm very sorry. You have a second term. Then you can always...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u234	I haven't had four interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u235	Yes, I do. Really. Everyone's keeping track. Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u236	Mr. Chairman. I didn't hear the Secretary of State show good will. All I hear is "no, no, no," "we've decided, we've decided," and "I leave it in the hands of a committee." Actually, I think it's just a little too skinny. I shall therefore table the following motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that confidence in the ruling policy is decreasing due to the fact that different rulings seem to give advantages to multinationals that do not have other taxpayers;]] [[believes that if there is nothing to hide, full transparency will restore confidence;]] [[calls on the Government to publish all rulings anonymised,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that a request for a WOB has been made that the Ministry of Finance regularly consults with international business representatives and that new policies are even aligned with these clubs;]] [[considers that there are better and more transparent ways of hearing the views of these representatives, such as the public Internet consultations;]] [[calls on the government to stop aligning new policies with VNO-NCW, the Dutch Order of Tax Advisors and the American Chamber of Commerce in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-194]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-195]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u237	Here's what I'm gonna do. I have absolutely no idea what the Secretary of State is actually trying to achieve with all the measures. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that much information on, for example, the effective tax burden of multinationals, financial transit companies (letterboxes, e.g.), is not present;]] [[considers that the measures should be assessed for their effectiveness;]] [[calls on the government to come forward within one month with concrete objectives it intends to achieve with the set of measures it has proposed to combat tax avoidance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-196]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u238	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has taken a historic decision on the extraction of gas in Groningen. That bothers me even more than tax avoidance discussions if possible. That is why I was sometimes doing something different during this debate. Sometimes you do. I'm filing a motion on the housing corporations. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the fight against tax avoidance a generic discount is introduced;]] [[Whereas housing corporations have to pay much more tax through these cabinet plans;]] [[Whereas housing corporations perform an important social function and are not tax evaders;]] [[calls on the Government to exempt housing corporations from the proposed reduction of interest rates,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-197]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u239	We have also discussed the question of what tax revenues it will generate if you include a number of inspectors. There's another motion from me on that. I will continue to hold that motion, because I can see that the Secretary of State is serious about doing so. I hope that will also lead to results. We are already a few months further than January and the answer was not yet that we are almost there. So I'd like to see something come of it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u240	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I started my first term this afternoon with the statement that we are experiencing a turning point in the recent political history of the Netherlands. For the first time, a cabinet recognises that tax policy makes it possible to avoid tax and that this is harmful and unjust. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. It shows, however, that we are going to have a lot of discussions about transparency, effectiveness and what other European countries are doing in terms of implementation and legislation. But I welcome the fact that we are really making a spin in Dutch politics. I'd like to mark this moment with the next motion addressed to the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that it is unfair for companies to be able to postpone or avoid taxes, while citizens and other companies simply pay taxes;]] [[points out that the Dutch tax policy of the past is detrimental to tax morale, harmful to our international standing and harmful to the investment environment;]] [[points out that the approach to tax avoidance should be a spearhead of the Dutch commitment, both nationally and internationally,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-198]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for replying this afternoon, on which, as Mr Nijboer said, a historic decision was also taken on the extraction of gas in Groningen. Mr. Chairman. You can see that this cabinet has really turned the wheel. I'm happy about that. I have asked a lot of questions about the impact. Eventually, these kinds of plans have to go from paper to practice. I am confident that this will be done in a good, ambitious way, with a view, of course, to real companies, which are creating jobs and innovation here, but where we are finally going to take a really firm stand against all tax structures, the flow without anything happening in the Netherlands, etcetera, and where we are finally going to impose good substance requirements at rulings, for example. I had two motions for resolutions on the European commitment, but both have been agreed by the Secretary of State, namely to make real progress on the country-by-country reporting. We know in which countries taxes are paid by large companies. The same applies to the blacklist, so that countries that do not improve their lives as they promised will end up on that blacklist on 1 January. It's almost 70. I look forward to the answer with great interest. I'd almost tell the Secretary of State he's progressing. I assume that we will see that progress in all the legislative proposals that are to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u243	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. Oh, I see Mrs. Leijten. This is a second term, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u244	Sure. Something didn't work out in the Secretary of State's first term. This is not about ambition; you can discuss whether it is enough, but something is being done. It's unclear where we're going and where we can be dealt with. I think it's very good that if you have ambitions, you can indicate what you want to achieve with it. Does D66 agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u245	Yes. I welcome the kind words with which you start your interruption, because I thought your input was still very economical, if I may say so. For me, the core is that the helm is about. There is a very specific element of withholding tax on outgoing interest and royalties. If that works, it's a revolution. With you, I'm going to see if it's a good rate, so it has a real impact. This means that we are going to see over the coming years, I thought that Mr Omtzigt also said well in response to you that the flow through the Netherlands is declining. We will see that we make all these constructs, for example with interest relief, much less attractive. By the way, that also brings a lot of money. We are really going to see that we are going to impose the substance requirements on rulings and that the CFC bill is being implemented more ambitiously than Brussels should. I think that is very concrete measures. That's what I'm gonna take care of the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u246	This is a second deadline and I do not want us to repeat the debate in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u247	I'm trying to answer the question properly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u248	Yes, thank you. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u249	I seemed a little economical. I had a one-minute speaking time of 20 seconds. You know how it is. If you then have three motions, you want to avoid being sent away by a strict chairman without having filed your motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u250	What are you interrupting about? One final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u251	Since D66 is also of the kind to be settled, I would like to know in particular whether D66 supports the motion that we have tabled on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u252	That is a specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u253	Or are you gonna let the Secretary of State come up with that himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u254	What I'm going to charge this Secretary of State for is that the ambitions of the coalition agreement I believe I mentioned at least ten things not only in the coalition agreement are on paper,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u255	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u256	Yes, Mr. Chairman, if I get a question, I have to do it right and answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u257	Yes, but the question was whether you support the motion of the SP. So you can say "yes" or "no" without going into it extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u258	Yes, but, Mr President, we have a debate here, don't we? I think it would be a good idea if we exchanged arguments. "Yes" or "no" I say to populists. I'd just like to give a reasonable answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u259	Come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u260	No, Mr President, you cannot expect me to answer a question in one sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u261	No, no, Mr. Van Weyenberg. Sorry. We've been here since 2:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u262	Yes, Mr President, but then I do wrong to Mrs Leijten's question. I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u263	No, you're not trying at all. I now give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u264	Thank you, Mr President. The Secretary of State called the membership exemption a gem of the Netherlands. That is what other countries are gradually getting. That's right, we got two more. Those are the Treaties network, and we have talked about this and fiscal sovereignty. That is a pity in itself, because I had asked two questions about it. I didn't get an answer. In the light of colleagues in the Chamber, we say this in the second term. The question was: does this government maintain its previous position that there will be no EU tax in any way and that there will be no EU Minister of Finance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u265	Thank you. Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u266	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his first-term response. Following the Rutte II cabinet, this cabinet continues to tackle tax evasion. We're gonna take that hard. That supports the VVD. We are also tackling the issue of transit without a real presence or a real contribution to the economy and abusers. But we're giving a lot of work to the real business community. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are companies and individuals who, through aggressive tax constructions, try to avoid or even try to evade tax through the Netherlands;]] [[noting that this is highly undesirable or even contrary to the law and therefore needs to be effectively combated;]] [[Whereas several measures have been proposed in the coalition agreement to counter this;]] [[Whereas it is not explicitly the intention to deteriorate the position of real business and to lose jobs or to deter new investors from starting work and creating jobs in the Netherlands;]] [[Calls on the Government to explicitly target companies making payments to tax havens in the design of the measures and policies, which are also only in the Netherlands for the main purpose of abusing Dutch tax laws and treaties without a real presence or contribution to the economy;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the effects and consequences of the measures on real business, entrepreneurs and individuals are as minimal as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-199]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u267	It's a very enlightening question. In the situation of Starbucks, Nike and Ikea, something that is now under investigation, there is no low tax jurisdiction, i.e. no tax haven, involved in the whole construction of e.g., which shifts all kinds of orders and loans, but still tax evasion is taking place. How are we going to prevent this if, as you say, we only have to focus on situations where there is a tax haven?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u268	I believe that this is now being investigated. Until this investigation is completed, I cannot go into that because I do not know what the outcome of that investigation is. Once again, if tax evasion is taking place, we are going to take it hard. The motion lays down a number of conditions that apply at the time of circumvention. That is not new, and I indicated this in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u269	It is a pity that such a long motion requires us to think very quickly about what the motion is really about. It seemed to me to be a motion less ambitious than the Secretary of State's letter. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u270	No, definitely not. Why is this motion so important? As I indicated in the first term, we should not put every entrepreneur as a criminal. At the same time, I would like to make it very clear that we must be able to tackle tax evasion, and in particular those entrepreneurs who do not have real activities here. That image, exactly the difference between it, I would like to record with this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u271	Finally, Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u272	It seems to me that your ambition is not as far-reaching as that of the Secretary of State. So I await the Secretary of State's advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u273	That's always wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u274	Mr President, that is indeed wise. I can wholeheartedly support that. There can't be a misunderstanding about it. My first-term contribution has been exactly in line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u275	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. Finally, I will go to Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u276	Mr President, thank you. We're almost at the end of a fascinating debate. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. First of all, I would like to say that my group is extremely pleased that we have a number of hard-working officials who issue tax rulings. That's good for our locational climate. Let that be clear. I hear the Secretary of State say very often: ladies and gentlemen, there is not so much weird going on there. That's right. I would add that as long as we receive reports such as those on Procter & Gamble, where EUR 676 million is being transferred and the Treasury misses EUR 169 million, the Secretary of State must not find it strange that we squeal him in the neck every now and then. That is our task as controlling power. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is possible for companies to obtain advance security on taxation by means of a ruling;]] [[Notes that in particular many foreign companies use rulings;]] [[believes that our SMEs should also be fully eligible for this, and that this is still too little in practice;]] [[calls on the Government to consider the possibility of setting up a low-threshold window for SMEs in order to provide advance certainty to SMEs about the taxation applicable to them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-200]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u277	I'm gonna do my best very quickly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet intends to restrict access to the ruling practice by introducing a substance requirement of a wage bill of €100,000 and an office space of 24 months;]] [[considers that this is a good step forward on the one hand, but on the other hand is a slightly stricter variant of the same ruling practice;]] [[considers that this requirement is the same for all companies, and that no distinction is made between the size and content of the activities carried out worldwide;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider, in the context of the further development of the approach to tax avoidance, whether the substance requirement can be made dependent on the size and content of the company's activities requesting a tax ruling,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-201]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u278	Just to be safe, can I have a five-minute suspension?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u279	Then I shall suspend the sitting until 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u280	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Some motions are quite complicated if you want to read them exactly. Before I reach a verdict, I think it's good to take a few minutes. By the way, it was quite a lot to give a precise judgment. Let me start with some answers I hadn't given yet. Mr Mulder rightly said: I had two questions, but there were no answers. He was right about that. I had those questions in the folder "other" because I could put them more difficult in today's discussion. The questions are nevertheless very good. I'd be happy to answer that. Mr Mulder asked whether I can guarantee that Minister Hoekstra is not the last Minister of Finance of the Netherlands. Despite the fact that I do not have a glass ball and do not like to gamble, I dare say quite frankly: it seems very strong to me that he is our last finance minister. I'd like to give you that guarantee. We will do everything we can to ensure that this does not happen. It is clear that the cabinet is simply not in favour of a European Minister for Finance, as proposed by the Commission. We've said that a few times. Here too, I can repeat that once again. Mr Mulder also asked a question about tax harmonisation in the EU. Where do we stand on that? How's it going? Can we guarantee that nothing will ever be harmonised again? At the heart of an answer is that in the past, we have often been in favour of harmonising EU taxes when they contributed to the internal market. That was good for the Netherlands. A larger internal market leads to more effectiveness for our business, so we were always ahead of it. But this was mainly about elements that could, for example, stop double taxation. Think of the parent-subsidiary directive and the interest and royalty directives. Those are really European directives that we were in favour of, because it was also in favour of the Netherlands itself. There are also proposals on transparency. This concerns, for example, the automatic exchange of rulings and financial data. There is a European directive for this too, which we say is good, because it also helps us with our own agenda. The same is true of ATAD 1 and 2. So the added value of the European approach is obvious. As far as the harmonisation of the basis is concerned, I think that in the first part of the debate I clearly indicated where I was in the CCCTB and CCCB discussions. It should also be made clear that my enthusiasm for this was not very great, for all kinds of reasons that I mentioned earlier. I think those were the two answers that Mr Mulder was right to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u282	Mr Edgar Mulder, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u283	Very briefly. I also meant "what do you call it flat"? The Google tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u284	So it's about digital taxes. The world is changing and the economy is changing. There are relatively more goods sold over the internet than in shops. We used to ring a bell at a company and say: hello, do you do your business here; can we take a look in your greenhouse? Then we could tax it. Now it's getting harder and harder. The basis "where value is created" is very difficult to determine. Each country that is working on this separately will never be able to do so at a large company that is spread internationally everywhere. That is what we must do together. Is that supposed to be a European-style thing? Should it be a European tax? If that is your question, then our answer is: we do not think so. We don't think that's wise. But that does not mean that we think that the whole debate on the digital economy and that we should eventually also adjust our taxation accordingly is also wrong. If we do not think about the future, we will end up lagging behind and then we will have no basis at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u285	Proceed with the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u286	Yes, because otherwise we will have this discussion about the digital economy, which we were trying to avoid. Mr Azarkan had also rightly asked a question about this signature, which I said I will return to in the second term. I told you, it was signed by the manager of Audit Service Empire. However, we have WOB criteria on the basis of which we can anonymize the names and signatures because of a signature you could possibly derive the name of employees. So they need to be anonymized. That is why the names are not mentioned. Otherwise, you could tell me which employee this is about. The same applies to the signature. It is in our copy, but in the public copy the signature is omitted. I didn't know that either. We follow the law with this. Then I'll get to the motions. Eight of them have been filed. I shall begin with the Leijten motion in part No. 194 on the publication of anonymised rulings. I've said a lot about it. We have the idea that what we are doing is already providing all the information and that such publication has no added value. However, we are prepared to at least have reasonable doubts about this and we have now asked an independent committee to give an opinion on it. That is what we are waiting for; that seems to us to be wiser. That is why we would like to discourage this motion. The Leijten motion in part No. 195 is about stopping matching new policies with VNO and other players in the field. I would also like to advise against this motion, for the reason I have already indicated in my first term. On the Leijten motion in part No. 196 we talked a little longer. In fact, Mrs Leijten asks: can you indicate a specific objective for each measure? In itself, I'm not opposed to you designing new policies wanting to know what you want with them. In my opinion, in the letter and in all my interviews around it, I made it very clear what I want, namely to tackle companies that want to use the Netherlands to reduce their tax returns. I have nothing against any other company that sits here in the Netherlands and takes action here, and we are going to make life far from sour, but welcome them warmly. My goals, I think, are clear. I'll explain that in the introduction. If the question were "I want to know exactly what you are going to measure in quantitative terms"..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is a set of measures that we introduce at the same time. Besides, they don't all go in at the same time. We do not yet know how foreign countries react to it. In short, you can try this method, but I don't think you can get anything out of it that you can make soup out of. At the same time, I think that the qualitative weighting in the debate with the Chamber on whether it has made sense what we are doing is important. But that is not what the motion is asking for, and that is why I must discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u287	If you have looked at the motion for a long time, it is a pity that we have not looked at what is meant by it. I'm not saying per measure. I am simply asking what specific objectives the Secretary of State envisages with the whole set of measures. I'll leave it to him to fill it out. The reason I'm asking is the following. The Secretary of State says that there is actually no proper definition of mailboxes. There is actually no proper definition of financial transit institutions. In fact, we do not know what the effective tax burden of multinationals is now. If you say "we're gonna broaden the base and because we're gonna do that, we're gonna compensate for that by lowering the dividend tax," do you really need to know what the effective tax burden is now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u288	It's clear. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u289	If you haven't mapped that out, there's no way you can say in three years that something worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u290	For my part, I do not have much to add to that. I do not think that this adds value to what we have always done. That's why I keep dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u291	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u292	The motion can simply put you to the vote, Mrs Leijten. I don't think your interruption will change the Secretary of State's position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u293	No, but let me make it very concrete. It is now 4,000 billion flying through the Netherlands. These are figures from De Nederlandsche Bank. That just keeps growing. With the tax measures taken at that time, this has not been reduced but increased in recent years. Where does the Secretary of State want to stand in three years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u294	It's exactly these interventions why I'm dissuading the motion. It has to do with the fact that Mrs Leijten seems to be looking for: if that amount does not decrease, the mission has succeeded. I have tried over and over again in the first term to point out that measuring such a specific number alone does not say anything about the effectiveness of the policy. The total capital flow may have increased. You can say 'of course you do' now, and I would very much like to have a debate with you on the effectiveness of the policy. I would very much like to see if we can think of what kind of elements we are going to look at. But it just doesn't seem useful to me to give a quantitative picture of concrete objectives within a few weeks. That's why I'm continuing to dissuade this motion. Then I come to the fourth motion, Mr Nijboer's motion on item No. 197 on interest relief provisions and housing corporations. He won't be surprised that I'm deceiving this motion. This is clearly a measure designed to ensure a greater level playing field between equity and debt. We have made no exception for housing corporations, because we want to achieve the same thing there. The cabinet actually wants all VPB taxpayers to make this assessment. For this reason, I believe that excluding housing corporations within the Vpb is not useful and desirable. That's why we don't recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u295	A brief remark, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u296	The Secretary of State is lucky or unlucky that I am also doing the debate with the Minister for Housing. She never claimed that the government agreement meant that housing corporations would have to pay a few hundred million extra taxes. In fact, she always says that she is talking to the Secretary of State for Finance to look at this problem. Of course, she doesn't say that it's off the table, because that's a bit tricky, but I'd like to encourage her to do so. But I actually hear here: look at it, housing corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u297	No, that's definitely not what I'm saying. Of course, we have had this debate before, and I understand very well that these housing companies find that annoying. I am simply saying that I fully support the measures taken by the cabinet, which aim to change the treatment of equity and debt. Then, of course, you can have an opinion about who is affected and whether they are sufficiently compensated, for example in their landlord's tax. Those are all legitimate questions, and you can ask them. However, it is very clear whether you can say that the housing corporations are not supposed to participate in a VPB measure to treat own funds more tax-friendly than in the past. I'll say, no, that's the real idea. It's also just taken into account in the estimate. And that does not mean anything about whether I stonewall that the problems of housing corporations are not interesting enough to talk about this with the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u298	The Secretary of State also has brief answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u299	In short, I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u300	Then it's in the wording that I want it to be an exception in own funds/foreign assets. If compensation is provided in the landlord's tax or for a different form of compensation, the judgment is therefore more favourable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u301	This motion calls for a proposed reduction in interest relief not to be applied to housing corporations. I do not think we can do that, if only because we believe that European law cannot be tolerated. Mr Nijboer also knows that this is simply seen as state aid, but that does not mean that you should not have to have all the other discussions about housing corporations. But this motion is specifically about the Vpb element in it. I have said that I think there should be no exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u302	No, Mr. Nijboer, unless you hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u303	I amend the motion in the sense that there will be some form of compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u304	And if the motion is modified, then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u305	Then I can't say that, Mr. Chairman. I suppose it will come back to us in another debate and we will talk about it again. The motion I have now seen leads to my judgment "dissuade."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u306	Mr. Nijboer, are you going to hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u307	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I understand that the Secretary of State does not want to respond to this at the moment, but he may be able to respond to it in a letter before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u308	Monday's Easter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u309	Do I understand now, Mr President, that it has been detained for a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u310	I do not know, but Mr Nijboer has until Tuesday to think carefully about whether or not to put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u311	Okay. Then I come to the motion on part No. 198 by Mr Snels van GroenLinks. That reading person is, I think, asking me or the cabinet or no one. So I don't have much to say about that. I'm just gonna leave it like she is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u312	What's your verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u313	I don't think that's what I'm talking about, so I don't have a judgment on that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u314	Oh, to the room. Yeah, I see it. Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u315	Uhmm.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u316	Mrs Lodders has a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u317	Yeah, about this motion. I have been very sparing with interruptions, but I do have a question now. By saying "it is unfair that companies can postpone taxes," we say that we find carry back unfair and that postponing tax payments is unfair. I would like to have an opinion from the Secretary of State on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u318	It's addressed to the Chamber, I understand. Then it is up to you to be for it or against it. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u319	The motion in part No. 199 belongs to the Member Lodders. It was a little long, too. Also, in the few minutes we had, I have looked at this very carefully a few times. I know a lot of things. Also things that I have indicated myself and which are part of my letter: "presses a bit of both sides," "it is not one, but also the other." I agree. If you read her correctly, I had the impression that Mr Snels also referred to it. For that reason, there is nothing left for me to do but dissuade her. I would like to go further in this area and advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u320	Then I would like to hear from the Secretary of State on the basis of which the Secretary of State comes to this conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u321	I just read all these rules and again, I recognize a lot of them, but there are a number of adverbs and phrases where I wonder if they go further or less farther than we want. At first, I thought the motion was just a backup. When we were just discussing her, I got the feeling that she's less far-reaching than we thought. I'm sorry to hear that. The policy we are pursuing is in line with the coalition agreement, and I would like to implement it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u322	Finally, Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u323	I'm having some trouble giving a judgment based on a feeling. I would like to hear concretely on the basis of which the Secretary of State says that this motion goes less far. In my opinion, in the debate, the Secretary of State did indeed respond to this statement, stating that the distinction is explicitly made in the case of avoidance and evasion, but that it is also true in the case of real business with real activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u324	In my view, the greatest pain lies in the second last paragraph: "in the design of the measures and policies, the government requests that companies making payments to tax havens be explicitly targeted and that they are also only in the Netherlands for the main purpose of abusing Dutch tax laws and treaties without real presence or contribution to the economy." For example, this is the next discussion. Suppose you're an incredibly real company. You sell shoes, you do this right and you do this internationally. There's no problem with that. If at the end of that real activity you still put a mailbox on your for example and let all the profits you make through constructions flow down into a tax haven, we want to see as a cabinet whether we think this is reasonable. There is nothing wrong with real activity, but it is the last part of the sentence that says in this case that we do not have to do anything with it. I think we should do something with that. That is why we feel that this motion on parts is doing exactly what we are already saying. At the most, I would like to say that the motion is superfluous. But on this part I also found her less far-reaching. That's why I have to discourage this motion. Then I come to the Azarkan motion in part No. 200 requesting an SME rotation window. It is then one and a half million companies that should do it together with one window. Moreover, this is a matter of international rulings. One could say that it will be a smaller group, but on balance, we do not think that there is currently an obstacle for an SME to find its way when it comes to getting security in advance about an international construction. If we were to get those signals, we would love to speak to these people. But to open a separate window in advance to a problem that we do not yet recognise or recognise, seems to me to be a little far-reaching. The underlying idea that SMEs should also be entitled to a ruling is also true for the citizen. If the citizen calls the Tax Office, he can also get certainty: "If your situation is this way, we will treat it this way."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u325	Your judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u326	My verdict is that I'm deceiving that motion. I don't think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u327	I had that impression, too, but I thought I'd ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u328	Then I come to the last motion, the Azarkan motion in part No. 201. It calls on the Government to consider whether a substance requirement can be made dependent on the size and content of the business of the company requesting a ruling. I have also said to Mr Omtzigt in my reply that I think that is quite an interesting idea. I can't really estimate it. Maybe that thought doesn't lead to anything if I think about it longer, or maybe it's brilliant. In the end, I don't have much for it or against it. It seems to me that it is up to the House to decide whether we want to go further, because I can understand the idea. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u329	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-8.u330	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Members of Parliament, I thank the Secretary of State and I suspend the meeting for dinner break.
