ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on the General Financial Reviews. Yesterday we had the first term from the Chamber and today it is up to the Minister and the Secretary of State for Finance, whom I welcome, to answer the questions asked. I hope that we will also give the directors the opportunity to answer all these questions carefully today. I call the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State and I are gonna do the best we can. After my first Princess Day as Minister of Finance, these are the second General Financial Reviews for the Secretary of State and for myself, but it is our first government budget that bears the full stamp of the Rutte III Cabinet. It is my honor and pleasure to discuss this with your Chamber. I would also like to thank the Members of your Chamber for the many and good questions that have been asked. What many have already noted, and I want to highlight this at the beginning of this period for introduction, is that the Dutch economy is doing well in many respects. We owe this to the strong economic foundations of our country, as I also recalled on Princess Day, to international growth, to business and above all to the millions of hard-working Dutch. I said that, and I repeat that: in my view, political modesty fits in with claiming that success. It is a fine budget, with which we expect a surplus for the fourth time in a row next year. That hasn't happened in 60 years, someone said yesterday. It is a budget that, on the one hand, does justice to the people in the country, who invest in society, and, on the other hand, also wants to put public finances in order, so that, at the time of setback, we have built up a buffer and, at the same time, can pass on a strong country to future generations; to our children and grandchildren. I won't take you all the way back to October 1911. I would like to thank Mr Van Raan, Mr Azarkan and Mr Nijboer for the references to Amundsen. There was indeed a message in it that ignores the here and now and the good news. There are indeed clouds on the horizon, to which several Members rightly referred and asked yesterday: the Brexit, the unrest in international trade, long one of the most important anchors in the international domain, and of course also the Italian budget. I will say a few words about that too. I would also like to start by highlighting that the Council of State and some Members have asked whether we are doing enough. I'll come back to that in a moment. However, it has been a conscious choice of the cabinet to do and-and-do: both investing in society and reducing the burden and bringing public debt and public finances into order. But I acknowledge that we all see that, I think, and I certainly recognise that all the financial spokesmen also recognise that it is always a dilemma how to balance these three categories. Mr. Chairman. You asked me a moment ago; I will divide my speech into four blocks. I shall begin with the state of the Dutch economy and the situation of Dutch households. In the second block, I would like to focus specifically on public finances and the questions that have been raised about fiscal policy. Thirdly, there are, of course, a large number of issues on the expenditure side. Fourthly, the revenue side, and then I will talk about measures for citizens and for businesses. In the fifth block, I will say a few words about reforms and I am sure a number of varia will also be discussed. In any case, I will also say a few words about the banking sector. Mr. Chairman. I start with the first block: the Dutch economy. I told you, the economy is doing well. The economy is growing by 2.8% this year and by 2.6% next year. The Dutch economy is therefore in high economics, although there is no overheating, most economists say. What is also really good news is that next year unemployment is likely to reach 3.5%. That hasn't happened since 2001. Thanks to the tight labour market, wages are also attracted. The CPB expects wages to grow by almost 3% next year. This morning there was also a final report on this. Mr. Chairman. The Planning Bureau also says that Dutch households are going to notice that the economy is improving. Purchasing power is growing. What is very important, and what I really want to emphasise in this debate, is that as a cabinet we want it to be felt across the whole spectrum in society. So we have also really looked at it. We have also adapted it during the August decision-making process to ensure that we choose as close as possible a balance between young and old, between working and non-working and between the differences quartiles. Mr Azarkan asked if I could guarantee purchasing power. Mr Mulder asked the other members of your house a similar question, but I also considered that question to be a question to me. No, I can't guarantee it. What happens is that the best possible assessment is made by one of the government's independent advisors. And that's the Planning Office. The best possible assessment of the Planning Bureau is, with all the information available there, what is the current view that purchasing power for all these groups will look like next year. But I don't give guarantees. As a general rule, as Minister of Finance, I must also be reluctant to do so. Mr Mulder rightly called for attention to be paid to ordinary men and women. In any case, I understand that he is looking for a balanced distribution of the increased purchasing power. As far as I'm concerned, we really did. We are on average 95% and at the bottom we are talking 92%, and then as a cabinet we have really tried to make a catch-up, because the initial figures looked slightly worse and were below 90% for that group. I would also like to put it in an international perspective. That is what I am doing to Mr Mulder and also to Mrs Leijten, because she too was right to draw attention to this. She also rightly asked for attention for the group at the bottom. We cross-referenced the numbers. We've just looked back; we've looked at how long it's been since so many groups improved on it. Then you see that you have to go back a long way in time before you have such a percentage and that's perhaps at least as important as it is being worn so wide. I would like to add one more thing. This is the static purchasing power story. What is also important, and perhaps so important, is that more people have just found a job. This means that there are just more people in the Netherlands who were busy applying one, two, three, four years ago, but who are now just going to work. That's good for those people, that's good for their families, and that's good for their life's happiness. Mr Van Rooijen asked about the purchasing power figures of the Planning Bureau and the Nibud. Moreover, I fully agree with Mr Van Rooijen that no one can benefit from any ambiguity. In my opinion, Mr Van Rooijen knows exactly that there are also differences in definitions in the different numbers. I think that if you look at it through the hairs of the eyes, you can say that there is an almost similar picture coming out, where you can see that groups are progressing and that older people are on average making good progress on average. I think Mr Van Rooijen will agree with me. I will take the figures from the Planning Bureau myself, because that is one of the most important institutions for me. It also shows that older people are making more than average progress in this group, which is on average making 95% progress. That's good news. I assume that Mr Van Rooijen will agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u3	I understand that the Minister cannot look into the future and can not see all the variables, but that he makes a very good assessment and, on that basis, comes to 1.5%. People will assume that, and you'll be happy with that. But let's do it the other way around. What if in a year's time it turns out that purchasing power doesn't work out that way? Is the Minister prepared to correct that for those people, is he therefore prepared to provide some sort of butter-by-fish guarantee?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u4	I have just tried to explain something, and I would like to repeat it in the direction of Mr Azarkan. In the typical political dilemma of making choices in scarcity, in the triangle we are all faced with, in which political parties lay different accents, investing in society and putting the treasury in order, we have come to this choice as a cabinet. I sincerely believe that that looks good and that it also looks balanced when you look at the different groups in society; I will not name them all again. But I do want to mark, and I consciously did so on Prinsjesdag, that there are no guarantees and that there are also challenges that we as the Netherlands can influence very little. We can do something about the Brexit, but not so much. This is even more so in the trade war, let alone in geopolitical tensions. We have very little influence on that. So I don't want to participate in making promises for next year. This is the assessment of the government's most important independent advisors. That's what I'm basing on. That seems to me to be a fundamental and good assessment, but it is not more than that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u5	I conclude from this that the Minister says: I am trying to assess it as best I can, and that is what people should be able to rely on. It all looks great on paper. That was also the case in 2017 and that turned out really bad. More than half of the Dutch got nothing in terms of purchasing power. This is insecure, and then we can't do it, because then we can't estimate it. But I do notice that the dividend tax is the other way around: we do not know what it will bring, and yet we are giving away 2 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u6	In order to reassure Mr Azarkan, we will undoubtedly be discussing the dividend tax in the near future. Even without that warm-up, we're gonna talk about that. Mr. Chairman. What I may have to emphasise is that the Chamber and the Cabinet are really pulling on the same side of the rope with our common desire for citizens to notice this. That is, of course, our common wish, and let us make no mistake about it. However, I would like to ask Mr Azarkan that he understands from me that this is the best possible assessment of an independent institution. As a minister, I can do nothing more sensible than base myself on that. So that's how we're supposed to do it as a cabinet. And I find promises and guarantees unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u7	It is a good thing that the Minister refers to that independent institution, because I always refer to this institution with all the comments that go with those purchasing power figures. But we also received today the memo from the Central Planning Bureau on energy taxes. We will discuss this later with the Secretary of State, but the effects of purchasing power are quite large: 0.2% at lower incomes off and 0.2% at higher incomes. So what does the Minister think of the purchasing power plates in the Mrs's report, and of the adjustment that has now come from the Central Planning Office itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u8	I'm trying to keep us from getting a misunderstanding. I think it is a very fair question from Mr Snels. We wrote the letter today. It is not new information, in the sense that the Planning Bureau has often indicated that there are issues that are almost balanced about all population groups, but that energy is a subject that is subject to criticism. By the way, I would also like to stress that the Planning Agency does take energy with it. So the figures as they have been calculated are the figures as they have been calculated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u9	No, the Central Planning Bureau has indicated that the purchasing power plates produced by the Cordelia are based on the inclusion of energy taxes and inflation. That's kind of the usual way. But the Planning Bureau itself indicated in the spring: that is not really neat, because there is a disproportionate distribution. It is the cabinet itself that is constantly referring to the number of people who are improving next year according to the CPB figures: 96% of the people, 91% of those on low incomes. I've been doing a little math on my own. If you take into account the 0.2% lower incomes, I think you're going to be 85% and maybe 80% for the lower incomes. So I think that the percentage of people who are making progress could be a lot lower.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u10	I think that is a dangerous assumption, especially in view of the high degree of numbers that Mr Snels refers to. He sees me math in the meantime. If you're still talking to this group about an average of 1.5 and you're starting well over 90, it doesn't make any sense, although you always have outliers, to get anywhere near the 80. But of course we could always ask the CPB. However, I would like to highlight another point. I understand Mr Snels' wish. I also very much understand that Mrs Leijten drew attention to this yesterday. That wish is: can we try to do it as well as possible at this time, when things are going well? The cabinet said the following. When we got the first version of the numbers, we saw that the lowest incomes were below 90%. Was there anything we could do about that? We did. It is the only group for which we have explicitly wanted to correct by increasing the tax discount by €44. I think we really wanted to do the best we could there. I understand that Mr Snels wants more, always wants more. That is also his right, but in my view we have found a really good balance here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u11	Finally, Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u12	I recognise that adjustments have still been made in the August decision-making process, but you can see that the purchasing power figures are somewhat out of control with a correct representation of the energy tax. I will talk to the Secretary of State about this later, but can I ask the Minister to ask the Central and Cultural Planning Office to recalculate the percentage of people who progress and decline on the basis of the correct purchasing power figures? Then we can use it again later on in the Tax Plan. In my view, it is reasonable to assume that 96% and 91% of the people who are making progress are falling considerably. It's nice if we get that confirmation from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u13	I would actually like to go a little bit wider. I believe that we need as comprehensive a picture as possible of the Central and Cultural Planning Bureau. I am certainly prepared to discuss this again with the CPB, but I suspect that there is also a reason why it has been calculated as it has been calculated. I am therefore placing a clause there, but I am prepared to do so. The other has to do with one of Minister Wiebes' big files. We're going to talk about the climate. In any case, we still have the question of how to ensure that we are able to experience that hugely important goal of reducing CO emissions and keeping the planet viable, all of us. I think it is right that Mr Slootweg, Mrs Leijten and others have drawn attention to this. That calls for recalibrate at all. What does this mean for companies, but certainly also for families, especially for families with a small scholarship?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u14	I am going to see Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u15	The Minister dealt with purchasing power, so this seems to me to be the time to respond. I understand that the forecasts and forecasts for next year, but also in recent years, are estimates and forecasts. The reality is all the more important. The reality is that in 2017 pensioners, to take that group for a moment, would improve by 0.7%. This was also predicted in 2019. In 2017, it was not +0,7%, but -0,3%. This year, the +0,7 is estimated to have ended in a large minus: almost -1. So: from +0.7% to -1% for people with an AOW and €10,000 pension. Next year it is estimated to be +1%. Those three years together it is therefore negative or at most equal. If that estimate were not to be made next year, it might be at least zero, but perhaps even worse, negative. If you assume two real years and the prediction for next year, you can't say that it's a beautiful picture. If, in the August 2018 estimate, the CPB says that half of the elderly aren't getting any better than that, on average it's -1................................................................................................................................................................................ How are we gonna handle that? Estimates do not come true and reality is bar and angry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u16	One more time, though. With regard to the elderly too, Mr Van Rooijen and this cabinet are really pulling on the same side of the rope. Let us also be honest about those figures from the Central Planning Bureau. These figures show that older people are improving more than average. So in that whole group, the elderly are also over 95%. If, as Mr Van Rooijen does, you add up the next year and last year, that will of course look different again. Of course, I would also prefer that every time the Planning Bureau's assessment comes true and that everyone feels the same way in his wallet. That's what we all want. There's no misunderstanding about that. To be honest, I was positively surprised at how the figures of the Planning Bureau are working out for all groups, including for the elderly. When you zoom in on older people, there are certainly elderly people who have problems. Of course, non-indexing for the elderly is often a problem, as Mr Van Rooijen and I have often exchanged. The good news is that older people are much less often in poverty in the Netherlands than almost everywhere else in Europe. That's good news. The other good news is that poverty among older people is much less common in the Netherlands than on average.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u17	I insist that, despite positive estimates, the reality of 2017 and 2018 has just turned out very badly. We are only dealing with the final figures as they come out in practice. That prediction of next year, in which you said pensioners would get better off, is, I think, very distorted by the fact that at last we discussed it together in the Senate, the trap of the elderly discount, if you made €1 more, you went €1,400 on backwards, will be gradually reduced. So for that group between 35 and 46, there is a once-in-a-lifetime plus, which raises that average, but average Dutch don't exist and average elderly don't. It concerns the reality of 2017 and 2018, which is only slightly corrected for 2019. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u18	I should also like to say, perhaps, that even Mr Van Rooijen, on this important point for him and also for the cabinet, would like to ask for some nuance. It is not the case that the 1.5% applies to the average elderly. This applies to 95% or 96% of all elderly people in the Netherlands. Yeah, he's right, of course we'd love to see that in the wallet today and again tomorrow, but we can't send it or force it. Of course it is tempting to say that everything is going to be fine, I give a firm guarantee that this will happen next year. No, I do not want to do that, and I think that Mr Van Rooijen, even if he would have preferred it for his supporters, would also find it unwise for me to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u19	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u20	I don't want to talk about average Dutch and average elderly. I read here in the table that for a couple only with AOW next year the improvement is 1.1% and for a couple with AOW plus €10,000 1%. Then you can never get to an average of 1.5, unless that small group that gets better from that old-age discount increases that average enormously, but that obviously doesn't help the people with AOW plus €10,000, because that average doesn't exist. It just says here that the elderly at the bottom are making 1% progress. An average 1.5% doesn't tell them anything, and they don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u21	Of course, there's no average. What does exist is the sincere attempt of the cabinet to do this as honestly as possible for as many Dutch people as possible with all precision. We've been looking at it almost with a compass and a ruler. How do we make it old and young? How do we ensure that it is not only the lower quartile but also the middle groups? How do we make them workers and non-working people? All this is based on the principles we have formulated with the cabinet. For example, a starting point in the coalition agreement is that we think it is important for workers to improve on it as well. As far as I am concerned, this is a very well-balanced package. I would like to ask Mr Van Rooijen for that nuance. This year, too, we would have preferred more of course, but let us not pretend that it has been a disaster this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u22	I think they've been sitting with a compass and a ruler to see how they could make sure that it's basically unfair tax system a little bit redesigned for those who are in the lower regions. €44 general tax discount added: well done! But the minister has been standing here for about 20 minutes for a reason...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u23	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u24	Eight minutes, okay? The Minister has been standing here for eight minutes about estimates of purchasing power saying that it is actually going very well, that it looks very good, but that he cannot give guarantees. I asked a question about that. Is this how we're supposed to do the purchasing power estimates? We know that the care premium is more severe in terms of modal than in terms of three modes, but that is generally in line with inflation. We received today the note from the Central Planning Bureau saying: we know that the ODE.......................................................................................................................................................... However, it is generally taken into account. I was specifically talking about VAT at the time. I do not believe that the increase in VAT applies to people with less spending space than to people with a big wallet. Does the Minister agree with me that we should do these purchasing power estimates in a different way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u25	What I do agree with Mrs Leijten is that politics has a great deal of interest in purchasing power. The President of the Central Planning Bureau has made some critical comments on this. I paraphrase her, but she said that perhaps politics would do wisely not just stare blindly at those purchasing power cards and not just be tempted to the last tenth. I was unable to resist that temptation, bearing in mind Oscar Wilde, just before Mr Van Rooijen. So I'm the first to be part of it. The other side of the story is that we do think it is important that we know what measures are being taken and that we know how measures are being taken by Dutch people. I think it is right for Mrs Leijten to draw attention to the group, but she will agree with me that, one, the lower group is in the vast majority of cases improving and, two, which is also found in the Millions Note, that the gini coefficient again shows that the imbalance in income distribution in the Netherlands is not increasing. It's stable. We are one of the countries in the world in which we have distributed the total pot with each other most proportionally, together with among others the Scandinavians.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u26	It is very attractive to go into detail now about the gini coefficient, which of course does not include the poorest and not the most rich in his comparison, but I do not. Pricewise is just adding up: so much is health insurance this year, next year energy taxes and they also include internet and insurance. They then make a comparison and say: for an average household this means €700. Then you'll see how incomes develop and then you'll see that you'll lose €75 at 20,000 and €70 at 40,000. That adds up to €3,000 ahead of 100,000. If you put that past each other, it's hard for people to be in the plus up to 40,000 and just after. That is why I sympathize with Mr Snels van GroenLinks' estimate. But since these are always well-none-discussions, yes, it is included in purchasing power, and we have compensated it in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u27	I know Mrs Leijten's wish. I have just made two generous promises to Mr Snels, as usual, when he only asked for one. I'm also curious to see what comes out of it, but I want to say something about those averages. The Planbureau has also looked at how many Dutch people are making progress according to their estimates. Then you see by group, so for all the elderly, how many of the elderly are getting ahead of themselves in the Planning Bureau, how many of the workers, how many of the non-working people, how many of the first, second, third, fourth quartile. And each time that's a figure above 90%. I think we can agree that that's good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u28	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u29	Well-nothing about that polonaise policy that really bothers me very much, that also bothers people at home: yes, we will get better, it will, but I do see all my fixed burdens rising. Care premium, energy, all of you. The VAT, we don't know what that does to households. My question was precisely to look for an opening to how we can do that better than squandering the purchasing power estimates. For it is less than two weeks since the CPB said: no, that is all well calculated, while they have to send a letter today admitting that these energy costs are indeed different for incomes. On the contrary, I was not looking for promises to get through, but just to think about how we can do this more honestly. Therefore I do not have to blame you for polonaise policy, which means that we do not have to promise people at home something that is not there and that we simply reflect much more honestly what all these costs do in households.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u30	Mrs Leijten makes a few important points which both deserve to be refuted. The first is about polonaise politics. I also wanted to highlight very clearly on Prince's Day that, as Minister of Finance, you certainly should not make predictions, that the economy is doing well, but that there is still a lot to be done. And I have said this repeatedly, and I keep doing so, that does not give us any guarantee. I'm talking about the Brexit almost every day. I am going to tell the IMF, again next week, that even if that trade war would only go between China and America, Dutch people will notice it in their wallets. Then we also have the geopolitical tensions. And since last week we have had Italy. So I'm not gonna guarantee that. I am therefore able to really reach out to Mrs Leijten, and I am passionately in agreement that there should not be, can or should be, polonaise policy. I don't think she heard me do that either. As far as income is concerned, there is one more thing about that letter. That's what I just said to Mr Snels. It's not new information. The Planning Bureau came earlier this year and has already pointed this out. I think that would have been Mr Snels' inspiration to ask for this clarification. I have just promised him that I will talk to the Planning Bureau to see how the Planning Bureau can achieve such a balanced and clear.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This seems to me to be useful to all of us, and I hope that Mrs Leijten will also see the added value of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u31	The Minister starts his story today with the remark that politics must be a bit modest about economic profit. I agree with that, but I would like to say that the Minister is very cautious about the figures he mentions. Because once again it is reported that over 2017 90% of the people would be making progress. That is precisely the case after the event, because it is calculated. Afterwards it turned out that almost half of the Dutch went down. That's what I wanted to say. He also says: we can't look at these purchasing power cards every year. Then let me go wider. I would like to ask the Minister what he thinks of the fact that real disposable income has increased by 2% since the turn of the century and that economic growth in that period was 15%. How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u32	Let's be specific here, too. Because you can actually make the purchasing power plates per year. Precisely because of the debate that we have just had, and indeed, I agree with Mr Mulder immediately that the unfortunate fact that these purchasing power figures are less good for 2017 therefore also calls for caution. So I think we could reach out to each other there. What Mr Mulder is asking is the same question as Mr Azarkan asked me. It just didn't compare it to the turn of the century, but, from my point of view, to 2009. Then you will see that real growth is relatively limited. I think the percentage is slightly higher than Mr Mulder says, but it is relatively limited. The explanation for this is that we have also spent a substantial part of the money we have earned together in the public sector. By the way, that's what this cabinet does. If you look at the investments I'm going to say a lot more about the public sector in a moment and if you choose not to do so, you'll have more money on what you could do to ease the burden. I think that is one of the choices made by the PVV. That's possible, but that's not the choice the cabinet has wanted to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u33	It's just that more than half of it went backwards. The pictures for 2018 are also wrong. That is why my question is: if you go wider, then what are we doing about the 13% deficit that the Dutch person is facing? What I do not understand, if that is so important then, is why the Minister is not doing anything for that citizen now. He becomes part of the problem, the delay is increasing, because collective burdens continue to increase. So my question is why, now that the crisis is over, he is not doing anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u34	If Mr Mulder and I are both trying to be part of the solution instead of the problem, then we are moving forward a lot. The cabinet is trying to strike a sensible balance between the three picket posts I have just outlined. Then you can say, even from this house, I would like more relief. The cabinet does something, but I actually want more. Or you could say that I also heard yesterday that much more investment would have to be made. But then I'll come in with Mr. Mulder right away, because he says he needs the money for something else. I also heard a third variant yesterday: build larger buffers. 10 billion is a lot, but there's more to it. And: shouldn't that also become structural? Those are all very valid wishes. What we tried to do with the cabinet is en-and-and-and. We make sure that we invest in society and we make an extreme effort to ensure that citizens notice that in their wallet. But I say again: without guarantees on my part. The third is that we want to pay off the government debt further. We want to get the treasury in order. That's perfectly right. Why? Because, at the moment, we are paying 5.6 billion a year in interest on the more than 400 billion that we and previous generations have borrowed and that we are giving to future generations. I think it is right that we should take care of that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u35	That is a lot of justified comments, but the most important one is missing. There is, of course, another opportunity to do something for the Dutch and that is: stop giving money to abroad, stop with 4 billion to Africa and 8.5 billion to Brussels and stop with that weird expat scheme. Those things you could do and then there would be room for the Dutch. I'm asking the Minister why he doesn't. You are in the government of the Netherlands. Why don't you do something for the Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u36	This cabinet chose in 2017 to engage in an expansionary fiscal policy, in their words, by the Planning Bureau and the Council of State. By this they mean: Cabinet attention, you spend a lot of money on a lot of things that you think are important. But there is a justified point: let us also remain cautious. However, the cabinet has chosen to invest significantly in public health, in education, in the climate, in infrastructure, in the police and in defence. All important issues, which I believe are also seen as priorities much wider than just within the coalition. This includes foreign policy and the European Union. And, of course, a piece of defence is also meant to be used internationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u37	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u38	It was eight generous minutes, Mr. Chairman. I had arrived at Mr. Azarkan's. I think I answered his question. He didn't ask about the turn of the century, but he asked about 2001, I read here. Well, at least I'd be in the neighborhood. I have therefore given the answer: it is indeed limited, but this has to do with spending on behalf of society. Mrs Leijten asked about VAT and healthcare costs. Again, it is important to be very precise. I have tried to do that when I answer the written questions. There I indicated that the CBS and CPB figures show that expenditure below the low VAT rate is equally distributed among income groups as a percentage of their expenditure. Mrs Leijten doesn't believe that, but I don't have that much to believe or to believe here. When I stand here, I have to base myself on the facts and figures of those who put them on my desk in independence. I shall come back to the issue of health care in a broader context. I have already mentioned the serious economic risks, but I would like to highlight them again. A no-deal Brexit is very possible and will have a major impact on the Dutch economy. The Chamber knows that in a practical sense we are preparing for a hard Brexit with the adoption of additional customs officers and people from the Food and War Authority. But in the economic situation, of course, you can only prepare for it very limited. We also have trade wars, geopolitical tensions and Italy. I come to Mr Sneller's question on the cliff edge. Mr Sneller asked a very fair question: what does this mean for the state budget? It is already difficult to estimate the effects of a hard or soft brexit or something in between. I'm getting streaming reports from home and abroad, and there's a big range in those numbers. This is also difficult with regard to the budget. From my point of view, we wanted to invest between 80 and 90 million extra in order to prepare ourselves as much as possible. We began, as one of the first countries at the beginning of this calendar year, to take practical measures in the event that hard Brexit could come. Of course, we want to have as soft a Brexit as possible actually we don't want Brexit at all but I do think it is a testament to sensible policy that you are preparing for the perhaps not most likely, but the least pleasant scenario. In the budget, of course, we want to stick to the trend of budgeting and the separation between revenue and expenditure. So yes, it may well be that income will decline due to a worse economic situation. How much that will be, we'll find out. I want to stick to the policy as much as possible, where the lower limit is, of course, the Brussels standards. The structural balance will undoubtedly be discussed in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u39	Thank you for that answer. I understand and appreciate the efforts to ensure that the impact is as small as possible. I just think it's important for the Chamber to know what the consequences will be if they're known. I wonder if it is time to do so only with Spring note and Millions note. Maybe we should find a moment to talk more about it when it gets closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u40	I'm quite willing to do that on my own. The follow-up question is then a when and b which part lends itself to public access? I'd like to jigsaw on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u41	I would like to hear the result of that puzzle, because I think it is very important to be able to discuss this with the Chamber. March next year it's time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u42	Sure. And if you don't want to have a big mess in March next year, you should probably be able to take some steps before this calendar year runs out. Mr Bruins and Mr Slootweg and a number of others rightly asked about the situation in Italy. I mentioned it as a worry earlier this week. We had the somewhat special "remarkable" situation so clearly that Italy was not on the agenda of the Eurogroup or Ecofin on Monday and Tuesday, when everyone was, of course, talking about it. My French colleague Bruno Le Maire and I have drawn attention to this in the plenary Eurogroup. I myself have been in contact with my Italian colleague. It is a worrying subject, the ball of which is now back in Italy. I very much hope that they will take with them what has been said in clear terms. I cannot repeat them all here, but clear words have been spoken in chambers, both by the Member States and by the Commission. The Commission has partly repeated these words outside. It is then up to the Commission to decide. Depending on that opinion, a discussion will follow with the Finance Ministers. I very much share the concerns expressed by Mr Slootweg and Mr Bruins. Mr Slootweg rightly asked to what extent debts are a problem at all. As far as I am concerned, Mr Nijboer was quite right to ask: we are ten years after the crisis, what has changed? Mr Nijboer immediately got out of his way when I threatened to pay a compliment. We still have a huge debt pot, worldwide. For a lot of countries, they are at a higher level than before the crisis. Unfortunately, this also applies to the Netherlands, although we are heading in the right direction. But also in terms of private debt, we are still very high. What can you do? The cabinet has recently again decided on policies for people in debt. I said on television this week that I strongly support the banks' campaign to stimulate redemptions. I would like to prevent people from getting into trouble unintentionally, especially when it comes to a group that is relatively vulnerable. We have taken a lot of steps in the area of LTV and LTI standards, which has, moreover, been the merit of the previous cabinet. The chance that people could find themselves in just as big a problem as previous generations when taking out a mortgage is considerably less. But it is true that we should continue to pay attention to this, not just this year, but I suspect in the coming years. Finally, I think that Mr Slootweg has seen the same thing. I have recently addressed the consumer credit market in the unwelcome situation that I think you can borrow a lot from all kinds of web stores. You can see that about a quarter of the people there are late payments. Of course, we shouldn't want that. This brings me to the second block, the state of public finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u43	I would like to come back to VAT. This is going to cost on average €300 per family, per household. Does the Minister think that people who can't make ends meet can afford that easily?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u44	Mrs Leijten mentioned in her previous interruption that she didn't believe the numbers. In itself, I fully understand that in her role as a cabinet auditor, she says: see first, then believe. But these are not numbers of mine; these are accounts that we requested from the CBS and from the Planning Bureau. There it is said that these rates fall in a balanced way among income groups. It is important to highlight here that as a cabinet we have chosen to make work more rewarding. On the other hand, messages in the low VAT rate are becoming a little more expensive. That is a trade-off that, in almost all cases, works out well. To be honest, I was a little surprised by the misunderstanding of this measure, precisely because it goes hand in hand with another one that works.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u45	We will go back to the Tax Plan in detail. But indirect taxes paid, other than direct taxes, increase income differences and also health differences. Someone just got promoted to that. Why don't I believe it? Because, of course, it's about how you ask the mathematicians in our country. If you ask how it strikes down in absolute numbers, it could indeed be equal. But the point is, is it bothering you? There are a lot of households in this country that have no savings capacity, even more so, that have negative assets. You were just talking about the mortgages. We know a high percentage of people can't save. Do you think they suffer more or less from such a measure, the fine on the messages, than people who can save?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u46	Here too, we need to be precise. It is true that there is a rather large group of Dutch people without savings. They run the risk of getting into trouble in the event of a small setback, also because for all income groups in the Netherlands a large proportion of the income is relatively fixed. Mrs Leijten knows that, too. We have mortgage payments, we have en-and-and-and. This is one of the characteristics of the Dutch economy. But what the hell is going on here? As of 1 January, VAT in the low rate will go up a little, from 6% to 9%, and it will be more attractive to work. Then you'll just have more left. The sums that I didn't make, but which were made by our advisors, show that Dutch people are improving. I don't see how, because you might not have a few hundred or a few thousand euros in a bank account as an apple for thirst, in that month, in which you might have to wait until the 21st or the 28th before you get the first time that bigger paycheck would get in trouble because of the groceries. To be honest, that seems a little far-fetched to me. So I do recognize the problem of not having savings, but I honestly don't think that link makes any sense. And again, they're not my numbers, they're the numbers of the CBS and the CPB.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u47	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u48	VAT goes up a little, says this Minister of Finance. She'll be increased by 50%! It's about the VAT on water, apples, a train ticket, on really normal, normal stuff. When VAT in the high segment went from 19% to 21%, you could say: these are luxury goods, on which you might postpone a purchase, maybe you can save up for that. But this is just about buying pasta at the supermarket, hopefully with grated cheese. There are plenty of people who don't have enough money for their daily shopping, who can't afford that train ticket to go to the family's birthday. They face higher VAT. The Minister does not go into that at all! I have asked twice whether he thinks that people who do not have extra spending space are more affected by higher VAT than those who do have extra spending space. He just doesn't go into that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u49	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u50	It would be a good thing if he simply recognised that for people who have less money to spend, the VAT measure is more negative than for people who can save.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u51	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u52	I regret that Mrs Leijten and I may not agree, but I will answer the question. It's two measures. They go hand in hand. Mrs Leijten is right. You can say: 3% plus is little, or from 3 to 6 is 50%. The bottom line is that what you buy for €1 in the supermarket currently pays €0.03 VAT; that will be €1.06. That's how it is. This applies to the lower VAT rate. But also in the case of lower incomes, they improve their income, not only because of what we do on the labour market, but also when you add it up and discount it with each other. That's just the math. Everyone here is free to criticize and control the cabinet, of course, but I would have expected, to be honest, because the net effect for all groups is positive and it also stimulates labour, that this might be a bit warmer welcome, including with Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u53	Well, Mrs. Leijten is going to respond to that, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u54	We know that the individualization of accounts increases the care account, the energy account, but also the further indirect making of taxes, income differences, precisely because that is seen on the disposable income, so you don't know what you pay for taxes anymore. Then you can say that the percentage is the same, but it's also just about euros in the wallet. That may not bother you much if you are a minister or a Member of Parliament, but it does bother you a lot if you are a single mother and you try to raise your children with work and the good example, but you can barely pay the rent. 'Cause it's gonna go up next year too!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u55	I'm going to see Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u56	The Minister knows that I consider the VAT increase in the low rate to be an unwise measure. But in a slightly different way, Mrs Leijten's question is whether low incomes are more affected than high incomes. I know the figures from the Planning Bureau and the CBS. If you look at that in such a general way, do you think it's not so bad, but does the Minister also recognise that there are compositional effects in it? Does the Minister recognise, for example, that vegetables, fruit, bread, the basic necessities of life are falling a little harder on low incomes, which cannot easily be cut back on them? At the high incomes you have the restaurant visit, the theatre visit, the newspapers, the magazines. You know, they're not luxury products, but they're products that will be used a little more in higher incomes, and that's what's easier to cut if they become more expensive. This compositional effect also leads to a degree of inequality that is not desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u57	With the second part of the speech, almost up to Mr Snels' conclusion, I was largely in agreement. It's true, of course: if you make more money, it'll be different. You just have decreasing returns. You also have decreasing pain the moment it gets a little less. But let's turn it around, too. The moment you start earning a little bit more and getting a little bit more on your paycheck, it also matters. I think it's the ultimate reason. If the cabinet takes different tax measures, they are not considered in isolation. If you look at them in isolation, you may fail the citizen or yourself as the judge of the measure in a positive or negative sense. So what do you do? You put them together, add them together, or pull them off each other, and then see what the effect is. Then Mr Snels, who is always very sensitive to logic and numbers, will also see that the effect is positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u58	No, I have some objections to that, but that's for another discussion, because that depends on how you reroute. I have said before that all the government's tax plans do not lead to a higher labour supply, which you would expect if you put in such a slide. That says something about the plans themselves. But about the recognition. It produces behavioral effects. If you make vegetables, fruit and bread more expensive, it's hard to cut back on that. If you make your newspapers, restaurant visits and theatre visits more expensive, that might have a behavioral effect, but you may not want to. Wouldn't it be interesting to ask the CBS to take a look at this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u59	Mr Snels is the first to have two generous commitments in his pocket. I'm keeping it real. What if it was the other way around? Suppose the Planning Bureau and the CBS had come up with numbers that I said I didn't believe. Then I should have checked them out and talked about it. We would have had that conversation in the Chamber. But suppose I said x comes out, but without a good logic, I'll take a half x or two x. Wouldn't that have been much more remarkable? We've got the CBS, and we've got the Planning Bureau, which provides numbers. They lay down their figures here and we share them in complete transparency with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u60	I also do not object to the figures of the CBS and the Central Planning Bureau. It is ultimately a political judgment of what you think of the measure, but I found it particularly useful to see that we had a number of judgments and prejudices about how VAT works, but that it is something else. I think that's useful. Now I ask for a specification of the effects and the compositional effect within that low rate. I don't think we know much about that. It may be interesting for further discussions to gain some insight into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u61	I'm almost inclined to look right. Maybe there's someone there who already has more insight into the compositional effects. Maybe not. I think I've highlighted what's important to me. I also understand from his political point of view what Mr Snels said about this. If there is anything to add and the Secretary of State cannot resist that challenge, he will do so soon. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to public finances, block two. As I said, public finances are getting better and better. We expect a budget surplus of 1% next year and that is the fourth year in a row with a surplus, with the first of the four years being so small that it ended up at 0% in most states. It is good news, but we also owe it to the economic situation. What I think is important is that the debt should fall further and that it should fall below 50% next year. That is positive, but it is good to highlight that we are not yet at the pre-crisis level. This is of course not an end in itself, but it is good to know and to realize that it is 43%. When I was eating last Monday with my colleagues from the northern and Baltic states and we were passing the numbers of a number of other countries, I also noticed that the percentages there are much lower, ranging from 4% to 8% to 30%. So there is still a lot to win, especially because we are often critical of what others do. It is an encouragement to continue with trend-based budgeting. Mr Sneller, Mr Snels and Mrs Leijten asked about the economic situation, what has happened and what lessons we can draw from the past. I find it complicated in this place to extend the size of other Cabinets for what they've done. I believe that every effort has been made to combat the crisis that is just behind us in the best possible way, with a whole range of measures. There was also a major problem in terms of sustainability at the time. One of the lessons that you can draw anyway, and which you should like to draw, certainly as an open, very international economy, Mr Sneller referred to yesterday, is that you need to build buffers during this period. That, I believe, was also the hint I received from a number of Members of your Chamber. You have to build buffers now, because I have said it here more often when things are going well with the global economy, the Dutch economy is doing very well, and if things are going badly with the global economy and the European economy, the Dutch economy is going very badly. Mr. Chairman. Precisely because of the trend in budgeting, I am not very enthusiastic about what I think Mr Sneller called an 'active stimulus package'. I think I'm all on the same page when it comes to budgetary rules and building buffers. I also know him as someone with a fondness for reform. But with an active stimulus package, especially in such an open, small economy, you are right to get into all kinds of dilemmas, so far away from the classic dilemmas that we have often exchanged here, such as the dilemma that, if you are going to stimulate, there is always a timing, a decision lay and implementation lay. The empirical research I have seen does not suggest that this is the best for the Netherlands. If you look at this, it turns out time and time again that continuing with trendy budgeting and holding onto it in good times is one of the safest anchors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u62	If the Minister is so keen to build buffers, which I understand in itself, with all the risks such as Brexit and the international trade war that is threatening, why does the government choose to waste 2 billion dividends tax and give 3 billion to large companies? That's 5 billion those big companies don't need at all. That's 5 billion that could be used to build buffers, but the minister just throws them away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u63	The Secretary of State and I will no doubt be discussing the dividend tax in the near future. That 3+2 is an add-on with some comments to make. What we're trying to do is en-and-and-and. I'm going to repeat that one more time. I have, by the way, read Mr Nijboer's counter-budget with great appreciation. My understanding is that it is spending more and public finances are not getting better. In my view, that is precisely what we are talking about: how do you ensure that in the short term and in the long term, and there is a good deal more to be done to bring public finances in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u64	We have shown in the counter-budget that with the same balance, so without worsening public finances, you can make very different choices. The Minister is right; the balance remains the same. My point is that the Minister keeps saying: you have to be prudent and build buffers; I am a keeper of the treasury. I find it irresponsible to give 5 billion to big business. And it's inappropriate, because the profits are sky high and there are no needs at all. If the multinationals were to suffer in these times, you'd have another story to tell, but there's no story to keep up with here. Then the story of building buffers, being careful and going out with four thermometers on the South Pole, or the North Pole or wherever it was, is not so credible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u65	It's a little bit different, isn't it? It is also a bit different with Mr Nijboer's sum. The Secretary of State will say something about that in a moment, I think. The reduction in the burden of the cabinet falls to a large extent on citizens and not on businesses, and insofar as it falls to businesses, it falls to SMEs in particular. The Secretary of State will say something about that in a moment, but I do object to that link, because it is simply not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u66	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u67	I do think that the Minister should simply stand in front of the choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u68	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u69	The abolition of the dividend tax will cost 1.9 billion, won't it? If you don't spend it and keep your own cash, you'll have more buffer, won't you? It costs 1.9 billion every year, doesn't it? Isn't the VPB cut going to cost around 3 billion? That's not a number I'm making up, is it? That's what the cabinet comes up with, isn't it? You don't have to do this, do you? You can choose not to go in that race to the bottom, can't you? And I think that's a wrong choice, a very wrong choice. I do not think the Minister should run away from that and say that Mr Nijboer's figures are wrong. That's just in your own budget, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u70	The complicated thing with Mr Nijboer is that he knows very well which numbers he has to bring forward and remember here, and which numbers he should forget for a moment. 'Cause why don't we just get this Vpb? At the Vpb there is also a broadening of the basis. Mr Nijboer also saw the figures for last August's estimate. He also saw what happened there. I think that the first choice made by the cabinet is really prudent. We have said: now that the dividend tax is more expensive, we want to cover that new piece too. Then we are back to the budgetary rules. We are, by the way, the first cabinet to do this. Until now, it has always been the case that if a measure was more expensive, you will not correct it again up or down. That's an advice we've taken on board. It's not an advice that necessarily makes it easier for yourself. It's nice to be able to talk about this in more detail. But we also cover that summit. I certainly stand for the whole package, but then Mr. Nijboer of course has to tell the whole story. If you make the sum for large business and SMEs, you will see that as a cabinet we are doing more for SMEs. You can just see that in the numbers. What are we gonna correct in that August estimate? We still correct a little bit, go down less hard in the high Vpb rate and we are still on the path from 20% to 16% in the low Vpb rate. This is particularly important for SMEs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u71	Finally, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u72	Yeah, finally. I have not yet seen SMEs applaud the VAT increase announced by the Cabinet and the austerities that have been made in relation to the government agreement. I don't think that's crazy. I shall address the Minister to the individual measures. You can tackle tax avoidance without rewarding companies that dodged tax with tax cuts in the Vpb. I am not in favour of that. I think you should do one thing: to tackle tax avoidance and to broaden the basis, and not to abolish the dividend tax and reduce VPB rates. You shouldn't do that. That's $5 billion. That's a waste of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u73	Again, we'll get to the bottom of it in a minute. Let's also ask Mr. Nijboer to fully display the PvdA numbers. 'Cause who did the Vpb tariffs go up to? At the PvdA. That is a conscious choice, but that is a choice that entrepreneurs are likely to be less happy with. I'd like to mark that. The entrepreneurs, including SMEs, to whom I ask if they would prefer to return to the situation we found in October 2017, say no. In fact, in the overall package, they are making progress. What I do recognize, and I would like to give that to Mr Nijboer, is that you sometimes do not get the impression that we are dealing here with the curse of abundance. There's more to do, we're investing more in society, the treasury is getting back on track and the burdens are going down. Yet there are a lot of groups in society that say: can it be a little more for me? I understand that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u74	The minister says he's not prepared to look at those incentives. He actually says that based on what happened in the past. My call is correct: be prepared for the future, learn from what went wrong then and make sure that we do not have to think then, then decide and then start implementing, which leads to a delay. I understand all the limitations of an open economy, but I would like to call on him to think about what should happen now. Because in the end, your predecessors stood for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u75	Here again I hear the echo of an ad film that was broadcast on television in my youth, about a good girl who is prepared for her future. I always thought Mr Sneller was a lot younger than me. I can hear that echo now. I'd like to prepare myself for that. I didn't mean to say that I wouldn't want to look at it. However, I wanted to point out, where it is about actively stimulating the Dutch economy when it is not going well, that all indications are not what works best. What does help is the solid retention of trend-based budgeting, especially in times of high-conjuncture. There are, however, more lessons to be learned. I think, for example, that we could have reformed earlier. That's different from cutting back, I say. But encouraging, there are still some comments to be made. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u76	As long as I do not hear the Minister say that the comments exclude any incentives, I would ask him to reconsider them. We'll come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u77	I think that's an excellent deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u78	Still, there's one thing about that wisely buried. With that 1%, the Minister is actually lucky this year. He called that a cyclical situation, but in fact he says: I have a lot of luck. If we clean it up, he's basically just short of 0.4% or 3 billion. Is that sensible dealing with times of very high economic growth? Are we prepared for the risks that are coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u79	Mr Azarkan, of course, has a point to make. We also exchanged this justified point a year ago. Then I endorsed that he and I can find each other in the logic of not only looking at the short term but also at the long term. So I think it is right that he should now raise this point again. As a cabinet, we chose a total package. We have also agreed on a budget path. The good news is that the budgetary path is developing even better than we expected for next year and for this year. The structural balance for 2018, in which the planning agency came up with a significant minus last year, has now gone to +0,7; I say that out of my mind. Mr Azarkan is right in saying that the structural balance has not re-calculated the sustainability deficit, which is slightly less good than last year. So there is still a point of attention. At the same time, public finances will be making more progress next year. So these two things are also in balance. If that structural balance is to be put under further pressure, then there will be a moment for this cabinet or for another cabinet to recalibrate or to intervene; I would like to highlight that in the direction of Mr Azarkan. But I don't think we're there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u80	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u81	Mr. Chairman. Mr Bruins asked about the surplus estimate. He also quite rightly referred to the recommendation of the De Kam Committee. In general, the committee is positive about how my ministry, our ministry, makes the estimate. The committee concludes that it is difficult to really improve the current method of estimation in the short term. The committee is actually saying that deviations between estimates and realization will always be inevitable; that is also my assessment. I am sticking to that committee, but also, of course, in general, highly recommended for everything we can do to assess even better and to estimate even better. We have also had an analysis of how we average estimates compared to foreign institutions; by "we" I mean not only the Ministry of Finance but also the Planning Bureau. I think that we are doing a great deal of good; the committee agrees with that. Can you do better? Yes, Mr Bruins is right. The question then is: how? Mr Azarkan was quite right to ask about the structural balance. I think that in my reply I also highlighted the point of the Council of State. I would like to ask the many spokesmen who rightly called for attention to this, above all, to make that sound sound sound in their own groups, because in this company this conversation is still fertile, but my experience is that it will soon change outside the Finance Committee. What Mr Azarkan, Mr Bruins, Mr Snels, Mr Stoffer, Mr Slootweg and, presumably, a few others have said, I would therefore like to emphasise very warmly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u82	I want to make things right. If the Minister had read our bill, he would have cut me out of that list.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u83	Honestly, it takes the longest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u84	That was a personal fact, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u85	Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels also asked about the sustainability balance. I will not be faint about the counter-budget or about the GroenLinks election programme, because I would like to drag him into my camp, even where the sustainability deficit is concerned. I agree with him that, in addition to the structural balance, the sustainability deficit continues to call for attention. As far as I am concerned, there will also be a moment when we will have to recalculate it. He was very right with his comments on the Brexit and other factors that go through it. Mrs Leijten asked about the state debt. In fact, I understood her question in this way: what kind of country do you want to leave behind?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u86	Do you have a personal fact, Mr. Snels?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u87	No, I had asked a very specific question about the sustainability deficit in the first period. In my opinion, in our election programme, we scored best on the sustainability deficit. Anyway, that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u88	Memory is a slippery thing, let me put it on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u89	My very specific question was as follows. You can see we're going to have problems with the climate agreement, just like with the pension file. There will be a number of major dossiers where the question is how this sustainability balance will develop. At what point is the Minister going to have new sums made to see how all this is going to work out together? I think that's important to keep an eye on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u90	This is a dangerous clustering question, where I immediately go out of the pension file, to avoid any misunderstanding. We may be able to talk about it in a moment. My colleague, Mr Koolmees, is very keen, with many in this country, to try to make our beautiful pension system even more beautiful. I say very explicitly that the normal arrangements made by the cabinet and the normal budgetary rules apply to this. In general, I think it is sensible what Mr Snels says: should you not look again at the sustainability deficit, if you know anything more about some of the larger and, above all, external effects? I believe that Mr Snels's question is in particular there, because as far as climate and pensions are concerned, you have options of control on all sides. At the Brexit you can do something on the practical side, but you have very little influence on what that does in the business cycle, not to mention a trade war, so I think that's a good idea. My first challenge is to think that in a year's time, for example, that would have to be done, but I should have a look at that. In the short term, it probably doesn't make much sense. I had arrived at a question from Mrs Leijten. As far as I am concerned, she made a fair point, because she said that the country you leave behind is more than just paying off the sovereign debt. That is not only her inspiration in politics, but certainly mine. In the end, we are all concerned about well-being for the Dutch. Prosperity is a very important part of that, which always shows research, but it is not the only one. This also means that, as a cabinet, we are doing a lot more than just putting public debt in order. Of course, I am also appealing to the investments we make as a cabinet in society. I really believe that we have found a good balance in the triangle I have just outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u91	I see your doubts, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u92	Yes, I wonder how the Minister reacts to the fact that he pays a lot of money to the government debt and transfers 2 billion to foreign governments and foreign shareholders and that the public sector is on fire at the same time. Does he think he's showing good stewardship?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u93	First of all, I'm going to object to that qualification. The cabinet's been going on for almost a year. My impression at the time was not that the public sector was on fire. If that were the case by now, it would be a fire that started very quickly, but it is not the case now. I also really think that by taking those words in the mouth, Mrs Leijten is simply failing the people in that sector. Yes, there are challenges in the public sector. Yes, we all believe that we must do justice to the great, great importance of the public sector. The cabinet also invests a lot in that. The cabinet invests a lot in the public sector. We do not need to go through in detail who does more on which part, but just to mark it out: in 20-21, the government does almost 2 billion in education, of which 1.6 is structural; more than half a billion in police, structural; on defence 1.51 billion in defence, there will soon be a piece on how difficult it is to make that money at all, and 2 billion in infrastructure. So the cabinet makes a lot of investments. Moreover, I believe that investment in infrastructure is also investment, I say right away. The cabinet has managed to conclude good, full collective agreements with a number of sectors. So I think that's a well-balanced and sensible story. I really want to mark that I do not recognize what Mrs Leijten is saying about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u94	Those are not my words; those are just the words of PO in Action and Care in Action. I do not know how normal the Minister of Finance feels that there are classes today in primary school with 40 children in it, or that the highest absenteeism rate has been touched in care, because the burden is so high. They may all be things he looks away from, but I think they're very serious. If you've cut 61 billion on the public sector over the past eight years, you can't say that you're investing 6 billion dollars, including building roads, or buying submarines, or buying the JSF, whatever's left in it, is settling the score of recent times?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u95	Here again, things go wrong in two ways. The first is Mrs Leijten's suggestion on the 50 or 60 billion. I would like to see that calculation, which I have explicitly asked for. Do we recognize anything that's even close to that amount? Even if you add revenue and expenditure all together, that is complicated, because in recent years it has mainly been about "less more." We've really cut back on defense. At some point, by the way, under Rutte I, a billion has been made. Furthermore, it has been especially less. I would just like to repeat it to the Planning Bureau and the Council of State: it is an expansive budget. Why? Because the cabinet invests a lot. That's really important to mark. Of course, we also see the problems with the workload. There are also colleagues in the cabinet working very hard. We've made collective agreements in education. In particular, primary education has improved enormously; rightly so, I think. I think we're all happy about that. A collective agreement has been concluded with the police, or at least a negotiated agreement, and a collective agreement has been concluded with the Empire. These are all collective agreements which, in general, amount to one percent or three. With that, the cabinet, the government, is doing better than the market. One final point I might make to Mrs Leijten: if you look at the SEO report in 2017 on the differences between the public and private sectors, you will see that these differences are limited, except at the top. In my view, there is no majority in the Chamber to equalize these differences at the top; at least not up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u96	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u97	No, it's okay to go down anytime. It would be very healthy if the differences were reduced. But I'm sure this minister doesn't think so. Where did I get that? There are several economists who have calculated this, but it is also included in the final report of informant Herman Tjeenk Willink, for example. It's just in there. It is good for this Minister to read that. It simply states: the public sector is on fire; there is a great deal to be done. Only he doesn't use the word "fire." But I regret that this Finance Minister does not address the problems that are being identified, the fact that so many billions have been lost. For example, the investment of half a billion dollars in security and police: that is not yet making up for the cuts of Rutte I and II.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u98	I think I'm getting into it. I'm just gonna go into what happened. Of course, a lot has happened in the public sector, but I would point out that it has been "less" in the crisis rather than a real austerity. The second thing I want to highlight is that Mrs Leijten and I agree that the public sector is of fundamental importance to the Netherlands. It's not for nothing that the cabinet invests a lot of money in that. It is not for nothing that colleagues in the cabinet have been incredibly busy with the problems in the workplace, but certainly also with regard to salaries. That is why they have managed to conclude collective agreements which were acceptable to the other side of the table in these wider periods. You can't brush that away like "it's on fire." In my opinion, Mrs Leijten makes these words her own. I just don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u99	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u100	Mr. Chairman. That was the middle chants about the public sector. I was still in the chapter on public finances. Mr. Snels I've had. I'll join the Municipal Fund. Mr Sneller, the Christian Union and also the SGP have called for attention to be paid to the adjustment of the accres. You do see something special. Mr Nijboer was right yesterday when he said that there is a relatively high level of under-utilisation. Now it has an effect on the accres that we had not taken into account each other. The first thing to highlight is that it is my firm impression that even the municipalities do not want to get rid of the accres and that we should not want to change the stair-on-strap-afsystematiek. In this particular case, it is complicated that municipalities are now confronted with this. Moreover, it is still about more money, significantly more money that the cabinet makes available. I understood the questions on the adjustment as follows. It was asked whether I or one of my colleagues in the cabinet would like to discuss this with the municipalities. I understood that question as: should we not even check whether it is a problem at all and whether it raises any questions for the system? If I understood correctly, I'd say yes to both questions. But before we solve a problem, we need to make sure it's there. It could also be the case that not all municipalities suffer from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u101	Thank you for the commitment. I understand that the Municipal Fund is a blunt instrument. I do like to hear what comes back from the municipalities. I have also named the coincidence with other deficits. So I'd like to hear what's coming out of this. Could there possibly be a deadline attached to the commitment? Then we can see what's still possible in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u102	I should do so in consultation with colleagues, because they are responsible for these contacts. It is important to point out that I do not want to spend more or new money. If we let go of the step-on-step system here, it should have repercussions at another time. We have talked a few times about the expansionary budget. I am in favour of this budget with everything that is attached to it, but it is not for nothing that I and the gas bill wanted to cover, and did not want to make any new structural expenditure and to cover the top of the dividend tax. I think it is wise for the cabinet to do what it has agreed, but also to do nothing more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u103	It is not, in any way, a question of more money as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u104	Thank you to Mr Sneller for this addition. Mr. Chairman. Then I am on the subject of timeliness and efficiency, on which a very fair question has been put by Mrs De Vries. The task for the cabinet remains to make expenditure in an efficient way; I am going to say a little more about the Compatability Act in a moment. That is precisely one of the reasons why colleagues in the cabinet have also asked for part of it: can we not cash out because we cannot now spend it effectively? Moreover, it remains a very important subject. We all remember the presentation by Mr Visser, President of the Court of Auditors. Here's what he said. We are doing very well in the Netherlands in terms of legality, that is 99,56%. Of this, we are sure that it is legitimate expenditure, but in terms of efficiency, is the citizen getting the euro that the government invests on his or her behalf? The answer is often: yes, maybe, maybe, maybe not, we don't really know. So we just have to do more about that. It is right that Mrs De Vries should draw attention to this. I would also like to thank Mr Snels and Mr Sneler who, on behalf of the Chamber, would like to address this issue in particular. I would like to highlight that this will be a very long-term issue, and I think even far beyond this cabinet and beyond this period of office. The joint raising of the cabinet, the Chamber and, moreover, the Court of Auditors will be necessary in order to really get something moving here. Mr Nijboer was right to ask about the underexhaustment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u105	I don't know if you're asking any more questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u106	I've got something to go on in block two.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u107	Then I'll go to Mrs. Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u108	I think it is important that we look at the responsible use of those funds. In addition, a lot of additional resources have been made available. The Ministry of Finance is also considering whether it is justified and whether it can be transferred to the other ministries. I do not think that the role of the Finance Minister will end after that. Planning has shown that it is often wrong too. I think that, at the time of the transfer, the Minister of Finance should really keep his finger on the pulse to see whether this expenditure is going well and whether it should be adjusted or encouraged to make sure that it can be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u109	I very much agree with that. In good Dutch this is "forward looking and backward looking," where the operation Understanding quality will be important about the whole of processes and procedures, about looking back and about finding out what things you would like to do in a different way. The first part, the piece on the front, I suspect, is that Mr Snels is now threatening to walk towards the interrupting microphone, which concerns Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act, which is precisely about the check in advance. Then let me answer the question straight away, because it is still in the set. From January this year onwards, we have embarked on a new path, because suddenly those who want to spend money from the supplementary post will have to come up with an investment plan through the Ministry of Finance which will have to be approved, which will, of course, be subject to consultation, and only then will the money be released. At the beginning of this calendar year, I received a few calls from colleagues or some of my colleagues, whether it was necessary or not. That number of calls has dried up and we haven't stopped the procedure. So it wears in slowly. Mr Snels's justified question was: can we monitor it and how do we proceed with it, because you want it to work? We're monitoring it. I'd like to make one more move about when I get back to the Chamber. We've been working on it for about nine months now, which is relatively short. At this stage, you should also allow ministries that sometimes have very different topics to produce it in part uniform but also to a large extent not uniform, but in the long term you will have to tighten that screw harder and harder. So I agree with Mr Snels' request, but I would like to buy some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u110	I do not know if my question is fully answered. The money has now been transferred in a very large number of cases on the basis of spending plans. Then I am concerned about how the Minister himself sees his role in keeping his finger on the wrist, outside of all the regular reports. How does he see his role towards his fellow ministers to ensure that what has been agreed also happens?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u111	That's a fair question. We have several instruments for that. Of course, we have the so-called ibos for that. At all, there are ministries that do a policy evaluation on their own every now and then. But with Operation insight into quality, we just need to do more about that. What we, as Finance Ministry, are paying close attention to, is spending. But as far as the effectiveness of expenditure is concerned, the effectiveness of expenditure is actually the type X policy in social security has the expected effect? The answer is that we sometimes know it very precisely and sometimes we do not know it well enough. And in some cases, it's tricky, too. What is the added value of x or y policemen on the street for the sense of security? Sometimes that's hard to express. But what I share with Mrs De Vries is that we, as a government, are really obliged to do more in terms of understanding and then spending the money as wisely as possible, because the money is not ours. That money is the citizen's money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u112	I support what the Minister says when it comes to efficiency. Why do we do the things we do and do they have the effect that we aim to do with it? He explained this with: does the money when we spend it, exactly what we promise the citizens? I think that's a nice interpretation. I have some difficulty with the conclusion reached by the General Court regarding the additional expenditure of 8.8 billion announced from October 2017. It will amount to 12.9 billion in the long term. Has the Minister been strict enough there, even towards his colleagues when it comes to the interpretation and the question of which post it is covered by? Because, in part, that is simply very unclear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u113	I think the amount is 14.5 billion if you look at this entire cabinet period. If Mr Azarkan has the impression that that is not the case, I would like to know exactly what that is. It is not the typical impression of colleagues in the cabinet. Let me at least say in his direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u114	I could quote from the report of the Court of Auditors, which states that it is simply difficult to follow up on which posts it prints and what the exact spending plan is. In my view, that is not only the criticism of Mr Azarkan but also of a serious institution such as the General Court of Auditors. The Minister said that the General Court criticized efficiency in particular. I think that starts when spending plans are submitted. Then the Minister of Finance has to keep a finger on the wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u115	That's where we're all at the same point. Let me put it this way: serious gentlemen such as Mr Visser and Mr Azarkan are right to draw attention to this. Also when monitoring and at those checks it is also for my ministry learning at doing, because we do so under the Compliance Act and we do so from the beginning of this year for the first time. I also told the Court of Auditors: keep watching with us, because we simply have a very long way to go here. My impression is that that generally really helps and goes well. But there are indeed subjects where that is less obvious. However, it has now become part of the standard recipe that ministers have to submit to questions about the efficiency of spending through the Ministry of Finance before they can get anything signed off on the Council of Ministers. And that's, I think, profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u116	Mr. Azarkan, finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u117	I would like to urge the Minister of Finance to stick to that, also because we always hear afterwards from the General Court: of a number of billion............................................................................................................................................................................................ I think that we should be able to justify this to the people who sometimes have to live with a very small amount of money a month.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u118	I agree with Mr Azarkan. Mr. Chairman. I had come to a question from Mr Nijboer about under-exhaustment. Of course, he was right to ask. That's a striking list. There are, however, a few comments to make. It's not like I wouldn't want to spend that money. The cabinet has started with a strong investment agenda. The cabinet started at a relatively late moment in 2017. My impression is that it is not the case that colleagues in the cabinet, and that is particularly the colleagues in the defence sector, and to a lesser extent, as Mr Nijboer has seen, percentagely in any case, of Social Affairs and VWS, do not want to spend that money. They must do so in an efficient way. For IenW and for Defence, unlike the others, they have an unlimited year-end margin. They can move through. There are, however, a few distortions in it. I'm gonna have to get it out of your face in a minute. In this 2.7 there is a small 700 million of ING and, out of my head, there is about 800 million for Europe, which is also being pushed forward. So it's going to be a smaller amount. Mr Nijboer is right: we had reserved the money for other things. It's not like we're throwing the towel in there. On the contrary, we continue along the lines we have agreed. I come to a number of other issues on the expenditure side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u119	I find that a bit difficult to explain from the Minister: we are not throwing the towel in the ring. That's how I interpret it. It was 2.9 billion, not 2.7 but 2.9, destined for public affairs with the exception of that fine, which you would not spend, and Europe. It's pretty much around the 2 billion you promised to sectors, general practitioners, nurses, infrastructure, defense, to improve things. By the way, also to the Tax Office. You're now reporting to the Chamber: we're not going to spend it anymore, it's going to go to the state debt. Then we'll stop trying to make sense of it in August, won't we? Otherwise, you would have reported the Chamber: we're behind schedule, but we're going to do our best to get it to the right people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u120	First about the numbers and then about the precision in how this is now. Mr Nijboer is right: 2.9 billion. As I have just said, we are subtracting ING from this and EU payments. I read it here. That number's right. That's the minus 0.8. Then you can see that it's mainly with the Defense Department, with IenW and to a lesser extent, percentagely in any case, with the ceilings of care and social security. Then you'll be slightly lower than Mr. Nijboer's 2 billion. Then you get to 1.5 billion that's left. But let's separate ourselves from the specific numbers. The Chamber is entitled to the best possible state of information that the Cabinet currently has in the year. On Princess Day, we wanted to present to the Chamber the figures of the best possible assessment of the various colleagues. It's not like I'm sitting on the pot of money and saying, "I don't really want to spend it." On the contrary, colleagues know that I am not prepared to make additional structural expenditure, but the members of the Cabinet know as well that I stand for all the expenditure we have planned. I am in favour of this, but they must be able to spend the money effectively. And if the DOD says he can't do that right now, there's only one thing on it, and that's not spending now and pushing it through.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u121	But what I cannot understand, for example, is that there is a cut in MBO for the coming years, a target for education of between EUR 140 million and EUR 160 million, depending on the year, while they could be covered under the expenditure ceiling of this cabinet period in this year. The cabinet tells us that the 2.9 billion will simply go into public debt. We're not gonna use it to cover those setbacks for the next few years. There are more students and therefore there are shortages in education in the coming years. You could've just done that. Why didn't you? Why don't you keep that money for the public sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u122	No, Mr Nijboer makes another choice. I really want to insist that we do two things in a sensible, prudent and decent way, just as we do in the Chamber. The first is that we are currently giving the best possible insight. What if we did it the other way around? Then I would have come here to the Navy note and I would have said: it is X. Then Mr Nijboer was right to say: but Minister, why are we only hearing this now? This is the best possible assessment that will be made through colleagues in the Millions Note and which I present to the Chamber. Secondly, Mr Nijboer knows that the expenditure framework includes the maximum expenditure that you are allowed to spend per budget. It's not like we're running out of money. In some cases the money cannot be spent effectively this year. Then it's wise that you don't spend it. As far as education is concerned, there is an enormous amount of money involved. In the budget in 2021, from my point of view, a small 2 billion will be added. We are talking about huge amounts of money, and that is good. I think that is a sensible choice from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u123	That amazement came to Millions note for me, but in spring note everything would still be issued. We debated this in July, we get the documents in September and then we see 2.9 billion in one go. I've never seen this before. I've also looked back in the last few years. I would ask the Minister of Finance: if you know that you still have deficits in education, that there is just another cut in education, because you will come back to that in spring paper, when you still have 2.9 billion on the shelf, and you will cut back 19 million on the MBO, why is that not filled in? This can be done within the expenditure framework. Those expenses are also reserved. Why didn't the cabinet decide to do so? And are you prepared to do so? I have another destination.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u124	That's what I suspected. The answer to your last double question is no. But let's get back to that first piece. Of course, we also tried to show the Chamber with as much precision as possible in the spring note to show what was the last position of the crop at that time. But you have a combination of two things here. The first is: this cabinet started at a late point in the calendar year 2017, while some of the plans were made earlier, of course. And then it was decided deliberately at the formation table: as far as possible we want to use that first year immediately for investment. But that means that after 26 October 2017, all these ministries had to go on as a hare. That's the first part. The second is that the cabinet simply spends an enormous amount of extra money and that part of that extra expenditure does not seem to succeed. But again, we're talking about 1.5 billion. That is roughly 0.5% of the state budget, including in the areas of care and VWS. It is serious money, but it is not as if these amounts are not being spent structurally. Because the best possible assessment, again, is that we have no money left structuralally. Mr Nijboer will have seen this in the Millions Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u125	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u126	In spring paper, the cabinet also knew that they were busy and that it had to be issued quickly. It was all gonna happen back then. But that's not my main point. The minister says, "It's 1.5 billion, it's not that big a deal." It is almost a quarter of the investments the cabinet wants to make this period. Mr Rutte says: '6 to 8 billion will be added, that is our policy choice', and goes against GroenLinks that said: we need to add 2 billion for the public sector. If you don't get 1.5 billion spent in a year and you predict that next year you're spending 21% more on defense and more than 10% more on infrastructure, which is probably not gonna work, then don't you make your promises true? That's what we read here, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u127	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I've put the numbers in relation to the entire state budget. And in all transparency, I have indicated here to Mr Nijboer what amounts are logical to take away and which are less logical to take away. It seems logical to me that Mr Nijboer agrees that at least Europe and at least that ING fine should be removed. Then you have a piece under the ceiling rich budget and then you have here -0,4 under the ceiling social security and -0,8 under the care. The money was/is available but it should not be the case that ministers, because that is the discussion we had five minutes ago, that money will then be made up in an early December fever? That's exactly what we're trying to protect the government from.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u128	What Mr Nijboer is suggesting twice is that that money for Defence and IenW is now going to the public debt, while it is my impression that it is available for next years and that the 1.2 billion from Defence is being distributed over, for example, two years, 600 in 2120 and 600 in 2021, so it just remains completely available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u129	It's a combination of three things. The structural image doesn't change anything. That is exactly why I said to Mr Nijboer: structuralally there is no money left either. It could be, I can't rule out anything, that a ministry gets into trouble again to the top or to the bottom. But structuralally, the picture hasn't changed. Partly we try to solve this problem with cash slides. Defense and IenW have unlimited end-of-year margin. And in part it will also be the case that colleagues do not get it shoved in one percent. That is also the discussion that Mr Sneller and I have had on a number of occasions: should it be 1%? Was what we had before more logical, namely 0.5%, or 0.75% it was? Or should it be 2%? Of course, you can argue about that, but it's a combination of those three things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u130	Certainly, but then it wouldn't be the case that 1.5 billion this year would go to the public debt of that money that is available if 1.2 billion from Defence and the 800 million you mentioned earlier from ING were all passed on to one of Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u131	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u132	This is just not right. There is 2.9 billion in the 2018 expenditure framework and in the answers to questions 9 and 10 of the Chamber, the Minister says: these are now going to the government debt. Under the expenditure framework it would have been spent in 2018. Otherwise, if it had been spent, 2.9 billion more would have been spent and not gone to the state debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u133	Meanwhile, I was browsing my papers. Doing two things at once is always complicated. I heard the report on Mr Sneller's ING. In my view, the questions were answered precisely and correctly in the written procedure. I'll come back to that in a minute. I shall then make a distinction between the ceiling overruns, and I shall show you that, because I do not have that position here and for which piece there is a cash slide and for which piece there is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u134	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u135	Then I had Mr Snels' question on the Compliance Act and Mr Nijboer's question on education. Mr Slootweg asked me to come to the section on expenditure, and I am still looking at the depreciation of the study debt in the event of an economic downturn. Refund of the student debt is subject to the carrying amount scheme. That scheme means that when the income is relatively low, less has to be reimbursed than the calculated term amount on the basis of the study debt. It is true that this refund is not immediately waived. That would also be crazy, because in later years there may be additional earning capacity. Then Mr Slootweg also asked what that means to me, as Minister of Finance. At least that's how I understood it from him. Look, it's only at the end of the discharge phase that any residual debt will be waived. Those waivers relate to expenditure estimated. That estimate is then again part of the budgetary decision-making process. That is what the normal budgetary rules are for. If that money is to be covered, this must be done in accordance with the budgetary rules in the budget of OCW. Mr President, I would like to say to you that I have now joined the expenditure block, but that was probably already clear to you in the replies to Mr Sneller and Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u136	I want to understand it very well, precisely because it is likely to become more and more money in the coming period. Of course, I understand the rules that apply to the individual. But at some point, you make a calculation of how much probably cannot be redeemed. If that is going to increase in the coming period, where will that loss be covered? Is it true that this has to be done at the Ministry of Education?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u137	There are a few conditionalitys in it, but if that were to happen again in the long term, that is not at the end of the study or shortly thereafter, but a longer period of earning power would lead to a study debt, then the normal budgetary rules apply. The Minister of Education will have to take cover for this at that time. It seems to me very unlikely that this will happen in the short term; see also the statement in the Millions Note. Anyway, it's an amount that doesn't come up until very late. Then Mr Slootweg, and I think Mr Azarkan too, asked about the BKR registration of debts, but more so about the micro side of this coin. BKR has been in favour of registering student debts for years, but they cannot enforce them themselves. The government does not intend to register, precisely because we want to ensure access to education. Mr Slootweg also asked about the binding study opinion. We are getting deeper and deeper in the field of the Minister for Education and Science. The measure announced to maximise the standard for the binding study opinion has no financial implications for the institutions. At the end of October, I believe the Minister will continue to inform us about the measures contained in the Policy Letter Accessibility and Equal Opportunities in Higher Education. Mr. Chairman. Mr Sneller and Mr Bruins rightly drew attention to the state of play in the study of student estimates. There too, I believe, these were almost literally the words of Mr Sneller, who said that a slight deviation from a very large budget would have consequences very quickly. You actually want to see if there's anything you can do about that. The ministers of OCW and I are working on it. It's not that easy. I do not say that in anticipation of the conclusion, but with all due respect to the questioners and to the modesty of the other two ministers and myself, it is of course not the first time that it has happened and that we are looking at possible solutions. We will need some time to do so, but as soon as possible I think for the Christmastreces, where I want to keep a small blow to the arm and come back to the Chamber. We will do so together. Then I'll get to the healthcare expenses. Mrs De Vries has asked a number of valid questions about this. First of all, I would like to highlight the fact that in our country, fortunately, we can count on excellent care. The care in the Netherlands is not cheap in many ways, but in general it is really good. And the accessibility is also good. As a cabinet we also see that in some respects the care within the nest of the government is a cuckoo boy, who has the ability to push the others out. We have that conversation on the Council of Ministers. I've been through this with the U.S. ministers. You want and you want to ensure that public health gets even better in its full width and is accessible to everyone and control the costs. We have taken a few first steps in this respect, and I would also say to Mrs De Vries. We are structurally increasing healthcare costs by 2.2 billion less. Main agreements have now been concluded by Minister Bruins for Medical Care. These are good-looking and sensible agreements, but this issue remains an important challenge for Chamber and Cabinet. In this context, Mrs De Vries and Mr Slootweg also asked about the WRR and the SER. The investigations are ongoing and we expect the WRR to present a report in early 2019. The Minister of VWS expects to be able to respond to the initial findings of the ESC in early 2019. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bruins asked about the possibilities for research into the deficits in youth aid. This issue was also discussed at the spring conference of the VNG. I believe that various motions were adopted at the time. Official consultations have now been held between officials from the ministries of BZK, VWS and SZW, and the VNG. BZK's colleague, Minister Ollongren, will return to the Chamber with the results. Perhaps Mr Bruins would like to give the cabinet and me some respite on this point. Mr. Chairman. I come to a number of topical and urgent subjects. First again the Brexit and the preparation side. Mr Slootweg wondered whether preparations should also be made at SZW and EZK. What actions are under way at this point? The Chamber will be informed in detail on 10 October. I believe that this is a closed technical briefing on the state of play. In the last spring, it has been inventoried where there are points that we need to solve acutely. Even before the spring decision-making process, as a cabinet, we have said that it will hopefully and probably be a soft Brexit, but we want to prepare ourselves for the worst scenario. If you want to do that now, where is there a bottleneck in the government that needs to be provided with money? If there were, we would take a decision on this before the spring decision-making, so that it could be taken into account in that decision-making. In particular, the Customs and the Food and War Authority came out of that round. This did not apply to the other ministries in the combination of an acute problem and a lack of money to organise it themselves. That was the good news. We're really trying to keep the finger on the wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u138	Let me turn to the previous point. We're going to get an answer from the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Finance asked for some respite. Does he have any indication of a timing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u139	The meeting took place this week. Can I agree with Mr Bruins that I will let the Chamber know in writing what is about the timing? Perhaps the letter from the Minister of BZK will be there even before my announcement of when her letter is there, but then it will save another letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u140	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u141	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u142	Then I'm with a number of questions that have to do with the gas file. I have a number of comments to make on this...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u143	Before you continue, Mrs. Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u144	Before the Minister goes on to that important subject, I would like to go back to what he said about expenditure. He looked mainly at the cost of care. I think it's a little too easy just to look at the WRR and the SER report. I think that we should also think from the ministries: how can we curb these costs in the future? Of course, we all want care to remain at a good level. In addition, I mentioned social security, because this year's budget is for the first time greater than even the one for care. I think that we should look to the future too, because we have a challenge to manage these costs properly and to maintain the good social security system. I wonder what the Minister will do with his colleagues to think about preparations for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u145	You're damn right I didn't. Mrs De Vries did indeed ask that question. Maybe first about those two budgets. Those who have the hobby to look at these budgets more often and also look back, see the leap between SZW and VWS. I must say that an important piece of VWS has been removed and gone to the municipalities, in the order of 5 billion, 6 billion. We have to take that mentally before we draw the conclusion that SZW is larger. The second thing that is important to mark is that the AOW takes on a very large amount of the SZW budget, in the order of 45 billion. That's because in the Netherlands, out of my mind, we have over 3.5 million elderly people. That piece of batter will increase further in the coming years. But Mrs De Vries is right. The cabinet cannot, of course, just wait, but will also have to act on its own. It is not for nothing that I have sought first contact with the colleagues of SZW and the two colleagues of VWS about the operation Insight in quality and also started thinking with them about: how can it be better and cheaper; can we get insight into subpieces of their domains to realize that? But I hear Mrs De Vries' encouragement very well. Let me say to her that I am taking her back to the cabinet that she too is concerned, and if I have listened carefully, the Chamber is more concerned about at least the increase in public health costs and social security costs. Mr. Chairman. I had arrived at the gas. I would like to start by saying that at the beginning of this calendar year the cabinet concluded that for reasons of security only one route could be chosen and that that route should be a break with the past, namely to close the tap as soon as possible. We come from a situation in which we have started to close the crane a little bit further, but in which we have concentrated mainly on damage and strengthening in order to overcome the problems in the region. I'm not blaming anyone for that, by the way. That is the logic in which we started as a cabinet. Mr Wiebes, in particular, said at one point in the cabinet: this is going to be a very complicated road, because we cannot solve the security problem. Then, as a cabinet, we said: we have to do it exactly the other way around. If we really want to put that safety on one and only on two the security of supply and only on three the money, then we have to try to close that crane as quickly as possible. Then, of course, as a cabinet, also with the coalition agreement in hand, we said that we should be willing to cover the crane's bill. That is also important to me, precisely because of the expansionary budget. In the short term, these amounts will still be available. Mrs Leijten (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say a few words about the 300 million for next year, but the sum total in this cabinet period is just over 1.5 billion. Then it goes up further. But anyone who has seen the numbers has seen that I have made the conscious choice there again to cover, as far as possible after this cabinet period, only to create an open account. Why is it this way? I think some of the spokesmen here know that much better than I do, because they are also on the gas file. Because, of course, some practical things have to be done before you can switch off. I went to work last week at the Gasunie. That's where I talked about the nitrogen plant, of course. There's just a practical lead time. You don't have that factory in 2018 or 2019. That has been the inspiration behind the gas file: cover the crane and arrange it wisely and properly towards the region as regards damage and strengthening. I think there were at least two very specific questions. Mrs Leijten was wondering whether this was 300 million for one of the oil companies. No, the 300 million is simply the loss of the state budget from the further reversal of the gas. So it's a walk-up that starts with 150, then goes to 300 and adds over these four years is over 1.5 billion; I think 1.6. After that, it is also considerably stronger per year, but that is because we expect to have both that nitrogen factory and big users to switch off and be rid of some of the foreign obligations. Of course, Mr Wiebes knows these technical details better than I do. Then Mr Nijboer asked about the 100 plus 100. On the one hand, I understand his question, but on the other hand, I hoped that the Millions note would be sufficiently clear. What I wanted to do with the cabinet, especially at that time when there was still so much uncertainty, including with regard to the deal with the oil companies, is prudently budgeted and ensure that we would not get a surprise later. So we've put money aside for the region, but we also have money, or at least a stellar post, let me put it this way, because we suspected that there would still be room for the National Coordinator, we might not get out with Shell and Exxon and still need money for the region. That has been the logic behind the 100 plus 100 decision. It has really been the prudence that has made us take that path. Nor is it the case that less money is available. I think Mr Nijboer knows the batches and the various amounts by heart even better than I do. If you add up everything for the region, including the different budgets, I think you're going to get around 1.3 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u146	I also asked how many are coming in from Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u147	I don't know the numbers by heart. I really should get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u148	You'll come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u149	I think they are also exactly in the state, but I can still look them up. I think they were shared in detail both in the Millions note and in the Question Set, but I would like to take that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u150	I'm not asking that question for nothing. This finance minister pretends that Groningen is costing us money, as if the Groningen people were getting something from the Netherlands, from this budget. That's pure bullshit. There are billions more coming in from Groningen. Billions! It's not fair to pretend the Groningen people are costing us money. There's a big party tomorrow in Groningen because they're getting money. Is that where the minister's going?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u151	I find this a difficult way of positioning. I've been trying to explain that the cabinet puts security first. I have also tried to explain that, as a cabinet, we have opted for the continuation of the agreements we had made with regard to the crane and for damage and strengthening. I think that's prudent. It means that we want to cover the reduced gas revenues, not only this cabinet period but also afterwards, and that damage and strengthening runs through the NAM. We then made provision for the state budget. I think that is wise, because at that time we suspected that there might be additional costs and that it was not clear how the agreement with the oil companies would turn out. I haven't given up the suggestion at any time that Groningen is costing us money. I have often said in previous debates that the country has been able to benefit from the gas of Groningen in its full width and long-term years and that I therefore believe it is the duty of politics and therefore of the cabinet to organise it properly with Groningen. I have said that before, and I repeat it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u152	When I say that 600 million is being cut back on care, I cannot say that because it is 'less spending'. But the moment 300 million are supposedly going to Groningen, while billions are still coming in, we define that as costs. I asked the minister if he's going to that party tomorrow in Groningen. I'd like to know, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u153	What Mrs Leijten can get out of the state budget is really important to mark. It is that 300 million in gas revenue is coming in less.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u154	Then it would be entirely up to the Minister to say that at the same time we are getting so much billion from Groningen. Now it's presented as if Groningen only costs us money...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u155	Mrs Leijten, the Minister was in the process of answering.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u156	Is he going to that party tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u157	But then Mrs Leijten will have to take the trouble to look at the figures in the Millions Note. I come now to Mr Wiebes' area of expertise, but Mrs Leijten will see that we are cutting off the Groningen gas as quickly as possible, although there are still many uncertainties. We're assuming that we have about 20 billion left over in 2023. That's one component. Then there's another component. I'm gonna take it out of my head for a while, chairman, and those are the non-Groning fields. Some of them are in the ground and some of them are at sea. My perception is that we agreed that we wouldn't do new things on land. In any case, the estimate is that those fields will go down in proportion. That's completely unrelated to the Groningen discussion. I may be accused of anything politically, but I really insist that we have incorporated this into the Millions Note in all transparency and that we are clear and clear about what is happening to the crane. Mr Wiebes is really trying to do that with regard to damage and strengthening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u158	Where's the answer to my question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u159	About the party?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u160	Yeah, I've already asked you that three times. The Minister may say I have to read the Millions note, but I read it well. There's still 21 billion coming from Groningen, but it's being presented as if it's costing 300 million. There's a party in Groningen tomorrow. I want to know if the minister's going there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u161	I wasn't even aware of a party. Apparently, I didn't get an invitation. It happens all the time. Apart from that, I didn't say at any time that there wouldn't be any gas coming from Groningen. I have said, therefore, from the outset, that we, as a cabinet, have taken the decision to close the gas tap as quickly as possible. That's what we did. We have always said that it must be done as quickly as possible, but that there are still many uncertainties with regard to the nitrogen plant, the switch-off and foreign customers. Especially as things are further away, that assessment is more uncertain. But we're doing it as soon as possible and the finances are no obstacle to that. That's the appointment in the cabinet. A second agreement was then made, namely that we are going to cover it financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u162	The answer to the question about the party has already been given. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u163	Tomorrow, eight members of the government are going to be involved, which is why I wanted to know if the Minister of Finance had been involved, as if Groningen were going to receive just over a billion dollars. Just as in the summary of the Millions note on the first page, the top is 300 million for Groningen. It's not fair to the Groningen! There's just another 21 billion coming from Groningen. So we shouldn't pretend they're getting anything. There is repairing what has been destroyed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u164	That is exactly, but it was precisely the inspiration for the cabinet to take a new, different path and turn off the crane as quickly as possible. We have also said as a cabinet: if it can be done much faster, through technological innovation, a greater capacity of that nitrogen plant or whatever; then we will do so and money will not be an obstacle. I really do believe that Mrs Leijten is right in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u165	We have already had extensive debates about the fact that the PvdA, but also GroenLinks and other parties, did not think it wise to bring it under the frameworks, because then you set up other ministries against Groningen. Well, then it's kind of a favor that Groningers should get. But that's not what my question is about. My question is why the cabinet chose to say in the spring note 'we reserve 200 million for the future of Groningen for a multiannual period', while it became 100 million in the Millions Note once. You can't sell that, can you? You can't explain that to Groningen, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u166	Here too, I understand that Mr Nijboer obviously feels the challenge of proposing it in a certain way, but it is simply not correct. Nor does it do justice to the seriousness of this dossier and the situation. I am going to say something about that first point, which is exactly what Mr Nijboer said in the Financial Reviews of a year ago. We have an expansionary budgetary policy together; that is what the Planning Bureau says, and that is what the Council of State says. We did put some locks on the door. One of the things we agreed on at the coalition agreement is: the crane falls within the frameworks, and damage and strengthening runs through the NAM and runs into the balance. Mr Nijboer knows that. At that time, he also used the wording of "against'. I think that is a bad wording. I just don't think it's possible either. The good news is that we have been able to finance this out of luck. So we didn't have to cut back on it either. I think that's a good way to do it. The alternative would have been to push that bill into the state debt and say to the next generation: we didn't just put up the gas, but we didn't want to pay the bill that came from behind it. I would think that would be unwise. I think it's a good thing the cabinet didn't make that choice. The second part of the question was about that 100 plus 100. That's what I've just been trying to explain. The money available to the region remains available. It's a billion-dollar pot. 500 million comes through the NAM; the other half will match the cabinet. There are also pieces on other budgets, in the order of 300 million, which I believe are intended for Groningen. At that moment we had that great uncertainty, but we decided to turn off the crane. We weren't working together the Spring Paper at the time, but we almost went over it. So we had to make an assessment, while the Minister of EZK had a very complicated negotiation with the oil companies and it was still unclear how things were going with the coordinator. There were still many things unclear about the region. I think it is wise for you to say: in the budget, I would rather be a little too conservative now, that is a word that Mr Nijboer does not address, but some others here are in the reservation that I am making for the costs that this might entail, and then we will correct later. I also think it is logical that I said this to the cabinet as Minister of Finance. Otherwise, I should have said it would be more expensive. I think that is just prudent budgetary policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u167	And I think it is a good thing to make the Groningen people happy with 200 million per year and then come to the Millions note with 100 million and then pretend that that is good news. The 200 million was just there; it was also reserved. And it's not going to be assigned to Groningen. I don't think the Cabinet should have done that. I have one more question about conservatively burying. As I know, I found nothing about a reservation for a pension agreement, which really involves more than 200 million dollars, or an energy agreement. Where are those amounts in the Millions Note?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u168	I am going to say one more thing about the first point, precisely because I find it so objectionable. I then informed the Chamber of how to read the 200 million and the categories behind it. Because the Minister of EZK has managed to reach an agreement with the oil companies, and the total amount is lower, there is still 100 million of this 200 million. There isn't a penny for Groningen that doesn't benefit that province. Mr Nijboer also saw this explanation last time. So I think it is really wrong to pretend that this is at the expense of the region. That's just not right. As far as pensions and the energy agreement are concerned, it is relatively simple. I just said the same thing. On the climate, Mr Nijboer also knows the numbers. There are 300 million reserved and the SDE is in the budget for 2.9 or 3 billion, long-term linked to the ODE. Mr Nijboer knows that too. Furthermore, the general budgetary rules, climate and pension rules apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u169	Then I find that, when negotiations were held with large oil companies, the cabinet had already reserved 200 million. Now that pensions are being discussed in the polder, there is nothing in the budget. We all know that this is also about the AOW age and that this is going to be a big deal in the papers. The climate agreement with these enormous ambitions is evidently being implemented within the existing arrangements and without any public money. It would be a nice thing for me if those companies didn't get that much money from this cabinet, but I see the claims coming again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u170	I can understand why it's attractive to make life complicated. Mr Nijboer knows as well as I do that there are discussions on both dossiers at the moment. Mr Koolmees has not been too economical in the time he has invested in the polder to reach a pension agreement. There are also many good, penetrating and sometimes very long conversations about the climate at a large number of tables. The last thing I feel challenged about is cycling through it with all kinds of statements. I insist that we should do this in a good way with regard to budgetary rules. Mr President, I was through the expenditure block with that. I'm gonna come to the revenue line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u171	You thought you were done with the expenditure, but Mr Snels has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u172	Exactly. The separation between these blocks I found the right time to ask one more question before we really get to the charges and the dividend tax. That question is again about Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. This also applies to the burden framework and to the burden measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u173	That's what I'd have to go through the Compatibility Act. I think that's true. When it comes to spending, of course, you have a much more explicit test. That is what you are constantly talking about, in this case, new cabinet plans related to the supplementary post. That is also the task set out in the Compatibility Act and which the Cabinet has made its own. I should really like to look at Article 3.1 in detail. I suspect I know where the inspiration of Mr Snels' question comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u174	Sure. I don't want to get ahead of it entirely, but I'm curious as to how that conversation went in the department. The Secretary of State comes to you with a plan to abolish the dividend tax and you say to him: pay attention to Article 3.1, objectives, effectiveness and effectiveness of the proposal. I did not find that in the explanatory memorandum, either in the dividend tax or in the other tax plans. In my opinion, then, as guardian of Article 3.1, you have not been sufficiently strict.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u175	That is, of course, an extremely serious allegation. I can't just let him get away with it. The Secretary of State will be able to add a few words to the explanatory statement in a moment. I should also like to say a few words about the climate of establishment. The Compatibility Act is quite a big thing. I have to confess that after I had it looked at on my desk for a while, I started browsing it. But I don't have everything sharp in my head anymore. I shall come back to that in the second term. Mr. Chairman. There were relatively few questions about the revenue side. Mrs De Vries asked about the development of collective burdens in the Netherlands and whether it is true that they are rising. That's right. They're going up to 39.2%. That's half a percentage point more than in 2018. I think you can say that there are two reasons for that. Firstly, the measures taken by previous Cabinets and increasing care premiums increase the burden. That's what we always call homely the "base path." Temporary anticipation effects of measures such as the box 2 increase lead to high revenue in 2019. If you compensate for this, there will be a small relief in 2019 compared to the basic path, and of course more later. Over the entire cabinet period, that's 6.5 billion. Mr Stoffer asked about the marginal pressure. Like Mr Stoffer, I believe that work should be made more profitable. The cabinet also reduces the extremes in the marginal pressure between the minimum wage and the modal income through the labour discount, but we can always see if further improvements are possible. I believe that, at the request of your Chamber, the Secretary of State will examine with the Minister of SZW the possibilities or points of pain we might encounter, and will share the findings with your Chamber next spring. If I interpret it too widely, the Secretary of State will correct it in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u176	Did you answer all the questions about the revenue side?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u177	No, no, no, not by a long shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u178	Then I will go to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u179	The Minister talked about the development of burdens, so the revenue side for the coming years. I have here the annex to Mrs van den Broek's report: Policy development in the Netherlands. I see that the total of some fifteen measures in 2019 leads to a burden increase of 800 million. Isn't that weird when you implement a tax reform, which in the past has always been accompanied by lubricating oil, as it is called, for example, in 2001? This time there will be a tax reform, with the fifteen measures that are here, which I can give you, but the Minister knows them, and his officials too, which, on balance, will add 800 million in 2019. Is the Minister prepared to remove this burden?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u180	I suspect that Mr Van Rooijen knows about which way the answer is going. I won't take him again in why this is such a well-balanced package. He knows that, and I think he's about to endorse it. It is true that in the past, the way has been to add bribes. I think the cabinet is doing really sensible things when it comes to the burdens and the tax system. I have just had a debate with Mr Snels on VAT versus labour. There are a number of interventions we're doing. Honestly, if you look on the one hand at the richness of the Dutch tax system and if you look at the exceptions that we have managed to make over the years, and if you see on the other hand what the Dijkhuizen Commission and a number of others have advised us, then you could be inspired to do something else at some point in the future, but it is not up to me to philosophize about that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u181	Let me look into the future with the Minister. In 2020, honesty says that there is a one-billion-dollar relief, so that is about the same as the increase in 2019. And then it comes: in 2021 there will be another increase of one billion, so on balance I see for the families that there will be a billion more burdens in three years; in 19, 20 and 21, the cabinet period. In other words, it remains basically miserable. I assume, by the way, that the Minister means the same thing as I do with lubricating oil, when he talks about bribes, not the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u182	Yeah, I'd hope so. I think that is sometimes called bribes, but I immediately admit that you have them in two categories and that one potential is acceptable and the other is not acceptable under any circumstances. Language is important here and also pretty good in terms of support. Mr Van Rooijen said that honesty commanded him to say that there was also a year of good news. That also betrays his inspiration in reading these tables. What he is right about is that every cabinet by definition has to do with the basic path of what is found. Then we are partly back to the discussion I just had. I don't want my successor to find another piece of Groningen in that basic path; cover of the crane. It would be easy for me to say I'm just quitting 21. The basic path is the one where every new cabinet has to embroider on, but I can almost see Mr. Van Dijck crawling out of his chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u183	He's not in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u184	No, I know, but he's asked me about this before, so he'll recognize this dialogue. Compared to the basic path, the cabinet significantly reduces the burden, but it is true that there is also an increase in the basic path, i.e. in the policy of the previous cabinet or cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u185	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u186	I will probably come back to this later in other contexts, but in the case of the companies, on balance, over the years 19, 20 and 21, there is about 1.5 billion increase in charges. In other words, the citizens have virtually the same burden in those three years as the companies. Is this fair distribution, given the profitability of business and the high costs and the increase in VAT for citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u187	We have to be careful that we compare apples to apples at the most. The Secretary of State's gonna say a little more about it in a minute. It is really fair to say that, insofar as we reduce the burden, this reduction is mainly targeted at citizens and that SMEs are getting off better than large businesses, because that is also where we are faced with a broad-based approach. What Mr Van Rooijen is right about is the following. The cabinet really does the necessary work in the area of burden relief, but you always see yourself facing a basic path. That's one of the realities of life.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u188	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u189	But a citizen can't really live with the Minister's basic path, and neither do we as MPs. He's starting to laugh, too, which, by the way...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u190	My smile should not rake Mr Van Rooijen and others to themselves with conclusions, because then it will be a dangerous process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u191	No. I only meant to make a positive assessment of your smile; that aside. Whatever it is called, it is important to be able to explain that in those three years there will be a cost increase of 1 billion and only 1.5 billion for wealthy businesses. We will come back to that in the coming months, including the Tax Plan, because I think that is a crooked relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u192	Mr. Chairman. I am referring to a question from Mrs De Vries, who dealt with the estimation of care premiums. I thought I heard the echo of a question that Mrs Leijten asked me a year ago. I think I said it like this at the time. The estimate is complex at all. We all know how the technique works. What feels uncomfortable or crazy about it, especially with a lower care premium, is that you then compensate for it. I said that to Mrs Leijten last year, and I would now like to say this to Mrs De Vries. I would like to point out that we have had this looked at repeatedly. Moreover, it is mirrored: we also compensate for a higher care premium. So for the citizen it is one thing, but also the other. What I would like to say to Mrs De Vries is that I would like to add to the list, not for this cabinet period, but for another one. That is, by the way, a growing list of things that I can get another Study Group on Budgets to look at. I'd like to give her my word on that. I just want to be transparent and honest: people have looked at this question before with the inspiration that I have now expressed and then they have not been able to come up with something even better. But if I can give this to Mrs De Vries with that clause, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u193	Thank you for that commitment. In particular, I was triggered by the answer given in the factual questions. Then it was said that we would go back to extra expenditure. I would say: let's give it to relief. I hope, therefore, that the automation that we will then have to spend more will not become the Minister's line. I will come back to the previous point. That was about the collective burden. I have just spoken about collective expenditure. I have also read myself that the percentage of collective burdens is increasing. However, I would also like to challenge this Minister to look, as in the case of collective spending, at how we can reduce the percentage of collective burdens and how we can also reduce the burden. I hope the Minister will be able to agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u194	Yes and no. Yeah, because the Cabinet's gonna do the same. Should there be a fundamental moment of calibration or recalibrate in the triangle outlined in this cabinet period, I have understood Mrs De Vries' remark very well. In my view, that is exactly the point made by her predecessor in these debates, especially in the previous Financial Reviews. At the same time, Mrs De Vries knows the blessings of coalition politics. There are appointments made and there you try to stick to each other as best you can. These shall apply to the burden, which shall apply to public finances and which shall apply to investments. I do not see a lot of opportunities to do something about it myself without the whole coalition taking a broader look at it, even if I had that challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u195	Of course there are agreements in the coalition. They're just standing there. However, I think that we should think about how we can find solutions for the future, even after this cabinet period. That thought just shouldn't stop when you look at the future. The same applies to collective expenditure. So my appeal to the Minister is to do some preparatory work for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u196	I am happy to do so, precisely with the wording used by Mrs De Vries: that should apply to all areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u197	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. Last year I also asked about the communicating vessels: health insurance and taxes. It is fine to ask the Study Group on Budgets again. But we also had the discussion last year that the first disc is always used. If there are further shifts in the coming years, is it true that other tax measures could be appropriate and used, especially when it comes to balanced income ratios?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u198	This is the usual way Mr. Snels tries to take me on a slippery path. I think we've done this round neatly. I don't have a fight to do it in a different way next time. But let me think about that with myself and with my colleagues in the cabinet next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u199	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u200	Mr. Chairman. I was with a question from Mrs De Vries. She asked me about the donation and inheritance tax. I will also make a few other comments on the Tax Administration, also in the direction of Mr Van Rooijen. Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Vries rightly pointed out that the picture is not beautiful, and that the estimate for 2019 does not look good either. For this reason, with us on Finance you can see but again that it is good to be estimated in one part of the house, while in the other part of the house is the Tax Administration. There is, of course, contact between these two bodies, but this is done separately. It's the best possible estimate we can make right now, given where we are right now. The Secretary of State will be able to say a little more about this in a moment, but it is not the case that we do not ultimately collect taxes that we are entitled to as a government. But it is true that we are being delayed again. It is true that the estimate has a so-called upward risk. "An upward risk," that sounds good, of course. It might well be the case that the attacks on the inheritance tax that we are about to impose in 2018 contain a higher value, and the rams then say on the basis of that value that the value for 2019 should also be raised. Why would you believe that? Because the economy is doing well. And in itself, you can imagine that with the increased house prices for example, you will be slightly higher for the remainder of 2019 than if you look back. So there's potentially an upward risk in it. "Risco" is a bit of a confusing word in this, because it is of course about more money. But here too I prefer to be careful, also because we have often had unpleasant surprises on this dossier. In the direction of Mr Van Rooijen, I would like to say that I will be returning to the Tax Office in the fifth block. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer asked about the large companies and the reduction of charges. We have, of course, already discussed the whole package. He's right on his own that you can discuss the combination of high-conjuncture and load relief. Mr Baudet made a slightly different connection there, which I honestly didn't quite recognize, but that might not have been a question to me either. Mr. Chairman. I have arrived at a number of issues concerning the dividend tax. Mr Snels asked me about the effects of the higher costs of abolishing the dividend tax on the sustainability balance. Look, for some in this house it might have been nice, and for others less pleasant, that the estimate was higher than expected. As Minister for Finance, I said: I want to cover that. We do that with everything, so we have to do that with something that has a certain degree of controversy. We just have to cover that, because the piece you give to business would be different from what you had anticipated. So I think that's prudent. We did. It is also a new part of budgetary policy. I have just said a few words about this. I think that's a good idea myself. In the past, you used to frame a government agreement and make the best possible assessment of the measure. What we are doing now is that when we introduce the measure, now the Secretary of State comes up with the law on dividend taxation, we estimate again, with usually an upward adjustment, and that we also cover that. That was a recommendation from the study group we adopted. I thought that was wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u201	I would ask you, however, to complete the answer to the questions relating to the revenue side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u202	Okay, Mr. Chairman. That's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u203	Mr. Snels, you're about to have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u204	I see Mr Baudet walking in and I would therefore like to finish the last part of the answer in his direction. I have tried to change with Mr Nijboer how we actually choose to reduce the burden. But I do see what he means with regard to the combination of high-conjuncture and load relief and the potential procyclicality. I think we found each other on this at least in part a year ago. The link made by Mr Baudet was that the accelerated discharge would also work pro-cyclically. I don't recognize that much. I had the impression that Mr Baudet was actually trying to relieve more burdens. That would strengthen the effect that Mr Nijboer described, I suspect. Mr President, I paused for a moment because there is someone at the interrupting microphone. But it's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u205	I just suggested we answer a few questions. Mr Baudet and Mr Snels will then be given the opportunity to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u206	I am in favour of Mr Van Rooijen's question and I have had some support from Mrs Leijten on the dividend tax and the coupling. I would like to say a few things about that. It is important to highlight clearly that we wanted to do so as neatly as possible. Last year we also had a not entirely uncontroversial bill, namely the Hills Act. That's what we did separately. Here we have looked again: how do you do it in a neat way? We have done so with in mind the opinion of the Council of State of 2015. At the time, the Council of State was critical of the linking of cases involving box 1 and box 3. Here's something else. This is a matter for which the Council of State also explicitly states that there is coherence between them. Furthermore, the Council of State does not comment on this specific issue in the opinion. I will not immediately compare it with a blank final report, but Mr Van Rooijen knows what that means. This could absolutely resist the test of criticism of the Council of State. It also complied with our own internal directives in the field of collecting legislation. So my impression is that we've done this to the best of our ability. It would have been crazy, too, because the Secretary of State and I know this discussion. I also find exactly what I've always found of it. So we weighed very well here, just as we weighed it last time and I insisted on doing the Hills Act separately, how we would present this to the Chamber. As far as I'm concerned, that really happened nicely. The Secretary of State may add something to it in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u207	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to wait, but the Minister is responding to a comment on my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u208	Yes, and before that he responded to a comment by Mr Snels. He's sitting down. And before that he responded to a comment by Mr Baudet. We have just proposed that these questions be answered first. Mr Baudet, Mr Snels and Mr Van Rooijen will then be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u209	Well, it's still a richly scrambled block, Mr. Chairman, but I'm happy to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u210	Well, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u211	Mr Snels has made his own package for the location climate. I would like to thank him very much for that. I am going to say something about the counter-budget in a moment, but that will be in the next part. So thank you for that, and also for the fact that there is cover in it. Besides, it's wider. It is, of course, not just about taxation, but also about education, science and innovation. I would also like to say to Mr Snels that the locational climate is, in a way, a sum of three main chunks. I think I've changed that with the Chamber before. The first is the intrinsic added value you have as a country. That includes education and, believe it or not, political stability. I would also like to mention the stability of the judiciary, the infrastructure and the level of education of the population. Let me say the intrinsically added quality and stability of a country. The second piece is how much effort a country puts into it. I often notice this in the discussions I have with institutions that are considering coming here. There are great differences in this and I do not have the impression that the Netherlands is at the forefront when I compare it with how red runners are rolled out in other countries. That's the second part. The third part is, of course, taxation. This is very simple: companies are making lists in this area. They make comparisons between all kinds of categories. That about the location climate and the package of GroenLinks. Mr Van Rooijen asked even more about the Tax Administration. I also wanted to say a few words about that. I told the Chamber earlier that the problems in the Tax Administration are large, complex and persistent. Unfortunately, that is still the case. There really is still a lot of time, effort and energy to be put into solving the problems at the Tax Office. The Secretary of State is on top of that. Of course, given the responsibilities, I'm a little more remote. But Mr Van Rooijen is right that this state law ultimately affects my responsibility, and that is why I am, of course, interfering, especially on the dossiers that lead to this. There's no choice but to go on with it. It continues to keep our great, great attention. I cannot rule out the possibility that there will be further new problems and I do not rule out the need for more fundamental intervention at some point. But that's what I can say about it right now from my wallet. The Secretary of State will make a number of additions in a moment. Mr Bruins asked whether it would not be more logical for purchasing power support to run through the social security system and supplements rather than through income-dependent tax reductions. The answer is, as far as I am concerned, that the objective is, of course, to provide financial support for the lowest income groups. The aim of the income-dependent tax rebate and the reduction of tariff brackets is to make work pay more again. Mr Bruins knows that, too. To be honest, it is a puzzle that we try to put together each time, in which substantive and sometimes political considerations play a role. I see Mr Bruins saying "bejahen." I think I'm through this block with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u212	Then I give Mr Baudet the floor and then Mr Snels and then Mr Van Rooijen and Mrs Leijten... Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u213	Thank you, Madam President. My comment on redemption was about the fact that interest rates are now historically low and the Minister chooses to pay more quickly than he predicted. Last year he predicted that the debt would be reduced to 416 billion, but it is now 410 billion. So it goes faster than what he predicted before. So there's an acceleration of the redemption. I don't understand that very well, especially given that interest rates are historically low right now. What I do not see is the conversion of these loans into as long-term as possible, so that we keep that low interest rate and therefore have to pay less interest charges. What I do see is accelerated redemption, just when the purchasing power of Dutch people is falling. So I don't understand that trade-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u214	I am going to try to update Mr Baudet on both subjects. Starting with the first, the accelerated redemption. There is no choice on the basis of this, other than that we are pursuing a trendary fiscal policy. The discussion we have just had about revenue and expenditure means that we will have a slightly larger surplus in the budget next year, order of 1%, and that the structural balance, on which we have just had a long exchange of views, looks a little worse. That's one way. With regard to the interest charges. Mr Baudet is right that interest rates have long been low. In the meantime, it's crawling up a little bit. What does the Agency, a part of the Ministry of Finance, do? The Agency shall conclude loans. It takes out loans with very different lengths, sometimes five, sometimes seven, sometimes ten years. That's what it does in that market. This simply has to do with the position and stability of the Netherlands. We are only a little bit under Germany in terms of terms, if I may put it that way. So I understand the inspiration, but I think that is where the Agency is doing exactly the right thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u215	Okay, but again, why this accelerated redemption? Why don't you stick to last year's target and save money for relief? Why is this not being invested in society, especially when interest rates are so low?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u216	It's like reading: it's complicated when you've missed the biggest part of the story, because then you have to go back to the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u217	Then who missed something?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u218	In my view, we have just been going through a great deal of detail about why we are pursuing a trendary fiscal policy and why the results for next year are what they are. This simply means that the balance between revenue and expenditure is different from the estimate made a year ago and that we have agreed with each other on both the state debt and the investment in society, as well as the reduction of the burden. I understood Mr Baudet yesterday in such a way that he actually wants to do much more in the area of burden relief. Well, that's obviously a political choice. That's totally open to him. I merely made the point that, although I am making a different assessment, I agree with Mr Nijboer that a reduction in charges in high-conjuncture works procyclically and that I do not recognize Mr Baudet's comment on the discharge of public debt, which would work procyclically, from the economic theory. And not from economic practice, by the way, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u219	I see two views against each other. I do not have another question to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u220	Okay. Then I'll go to Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u221	Two subjects at the same time, but first of all, the estimate of dividend tax. I assume the Secretary of State is going to go into that estimate himself. I'd like to ask one or two more questions about that. But as far as budgetary policy is concerned, I understand that this estimate has now been made in this legislative proposal. How's that gonna go next year? Will the next Millions Note give us a new estimate of what the loss of dividend tax will cost by 2020? This is, firstly, relevant to public finances as such, and secondly, relevant to, for example, the initiators of the Recovery Tax Act. What's in it if it doesn't work out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u222	Mr. Chairman. I will refrain from commenting on these initiators, but, as always, I look forward with interest to any initiative from the Chamber. Look, the logic of the Budget Room Steering Committee has been right: let's look for a moment as late as possible, as precise as possible, to recalibrate the estimate. That's what we do. But you can't do that any later than the moment you introduce the bill, because then it has become reality. This also applies, of course, to VAT, income tax or any other form of taxation. After the moment you've introduced the law, you're not going to continue to follow alternative realities. But of course you would do that with the dividend tax or by any other law you have abolished, because then you will make an assessment of something that no longer exists. So you're doing it as late as possible and you're doing it in this case because the bill is going to the Chamber now. This creates a small political dilemma, but from the treasury I thought it was perfectly logical to cover it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u223	Apart from the fact that the abolition will only end on 1 January 2020 if the one chamber seat here and the other side vote yes to abolition. Then it is relevant to know next year what the proceeds will be, especially for us as initiators?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u224	There are so many clauses here that I do not want to go down this road with Mr Snels at the moment. I hope not at all, but at least not now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u225	Thank you for commenting on the investment plan. It arose from the annoyance that it seemed as if this cabinet had only something to do with the locational climate of the dividend tax, while there are also real challenges. Labour productivity is lagging behind. An objective of this cabinet is to increase R&D expenditure to 2.5%. The European target is 3%. They're not gonna make it. I would like the cabinet, which the Minister acknowledges, to have a challenge here that we can bring closer with much cheaper measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u226	For the record, it has never been my inspiration to narrow the debate down as much as possible to the dividend tax. The same applies to the wider locational environment. Mr Snels is absolutely right that it is a much wider basket. That's exactly what I've been trying to sketch. He's certainly right to add a few things to my first basket or actually to my first category, like R&D.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u227	Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u228	The Bill on Source Tax 2020 contains the proposal for the abolition of dividend tax, but also eleven other proposals, including two proposals which are strongly in favour of majority voting in both Chambers. The majority for corporate tax reduction may be small, but I think both chambers are entirely in favour of tackling abuse. There will then be a withholding tax on dividends, interest and royalties to prevent abuse. Now it is annoying that, when you are in favour of reducing corporation tax and supporting tackling the abuse route with that new withholding tax, you have no choice but to vote in favour of abolishing the dividend tax. My question to the Minister is whether, in the spirit of the motion by Senator Hoekstra and fellow senator Van Rooijen, he unanimously agreed that you can put both Chambers, including the Senate that cannot amend, before the dilemma of swallowing or suffocating, as Wiegel calls it. You don't have a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u229	The Minister understands exactly what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u230	I think so, and the Secretary of State thinks so. I understand very well that I am in danger here of the butcher who approves his own meat. That's why the Secretary of State will say something about it later. I therefore wanted to refer not only to what we did last year, but also to the directive on collecting legislation that we have at the Ministry of Finance. I have also referred to the most independent body, the Council of State. In 2015, the Council of State criticised the political link between box 1 and box 3. That was the inspiration for the motion in which Mr Van Rooijen and I ended up in the same way. It's really different here. Here the Council of State acknowledges that the packages we have put together make sense. Suppose the Council of State had said in its opinion that the dividend tax should not have been presented in this way. Then the Secretary of State and I should have considered it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u231	I do not deny the value of opinions from the Council of State, given that there has been a tendency, unfortunately, for decades, also in the Den Uyl cabinet, not to take opinions from the Council of State seriously. I'm just gonna say the last thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u232	But that's exactly what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u233	Let's get on with the case. Do you think this tying is democratic? The Chambers have no choice but to vote in a majority vote on the 76-year-old engine block for the reduction of corporation tax and in a much larger majority for tackling the abuse route. They will have no choice but to vote in favour of abolishing the dividend tax, which is 2 billion. That's not democratic, is it? Surely the Chamber should be able to judge that for itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u234	I'm going to describe the trial anyway. Even before Mr Van Rooijen had seen the Tax Plan, he announced at the time of the settlement of his work that he wanted an interplay. It was already completely pre-sorted and hot dieseled in this direction. He then saw the opinion of the Council of State. I can imagine that from his political appreciation that has led to a disappointment, because there is no ammunition in it for the story he keeps here. And I would not like to comment on the fact that in the time of the Den Uyl cabinet, the Council of State Advice was not taken seriously. I do have a problem, but I would like to take it on board, and I do not read in the opinion of the Council of State that that dividend tax should be removed. In my experience, the Council of State is very keen not only on this legislation in 2015, but also on it when I speak to it...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u235	No, no, no, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u236	...very excited, precisely because the First Chamber has no right of amendment. So the moment Mr Van Rooijen blames me for this and found the Council of State by his side, that would have been a reason for me to reconsider that. But that's not the case, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u237	Finally, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u238	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Then let me change the subject and help the Minister in a different way. Does he recognise the risk that the Senate will want a novelle? D66 has done so with the Tax Plan, and we have both experienced it with the 5 billion. Let us say, for example, that D66, or my group, we are sitting there, as you know, wanting a novella with a lot of other parties. The entire opposition here signed the Krol motion last week, so there are 37. Suppose they say: we want a novelle and if you do not send it, we are simply not going to deal with the withholding tax 2020. So you run the risk that the Chamber will do, with all the delay. Do you want to take that risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u239	Mr Van Rooijen sketches an attractive future for him. He sketches a future that he actually saw before he had read the Tax Plan, because he had already gone this way, and frankly I find it rather politically painful for Mr Van Rooijen. I'm so sorry. I understand he wants to take the size of the cabinet. I understand that he wants to keep the cabinet sharp on that motion and that there is also attractiveness in it, given the presence of the petitioner in this house. I understand that very well, and I also think he's right. I switched that with him last year, too. As much as he and I feel differently about the Hills Act, I understand the request from the Chamber. But once again, as I say to Mr Van Rooijen, he does not have the Council of State here on his side. That is a very important point for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u240	No, no. I'm going to see Mr. Slootweg. He had to ask me something, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u241	I don't think I've done that many interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u242	No one said you've done a lot of interruptions, so you'll just have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me start with that. Thank you for giving me the opportunity. I'd like to go back to an element. I understand the prudence surrounding the dividend tax by saying that we are actually going to catch him at the last minute. We also have a trendary fiscal policy. I would now like to get rid of the types of taxation, but there are some tax types that are more cyclically sensitive. In fact, I am concerned about the budgetary rules. Don't you run the risk of doing this with cyclically sensitive taxes that you're actually taking a lot of economics in that income framework while you're looking for a trend?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u244	That's an excellent question. That is actually the question put in a slightly different form by Mr Snels and described in the letter, I think. What are you gonna do? You want to correct for business. Or maybe you should say "over-economics," because every tax item is growing naturally and so the trend is almost by definition up with all taxes and all expenses. You want to take that piece with you, but you want to take out the outliers, in good Dutch, and if there's anything special going on, you want to get that out too. You also want, for example, to extract anticipation effects. That is exactly what we are trying to do. That is, of course, an exercise in itself every time. We have, of course, tried very strongly to do this in the taxation of dividends. The Secretary of State will be able to back that up in a little more detail in a moment. It is really as good a window as possible, taking Mr Slootweg's point exactly. Because that's just very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u245	Has the idea of taking three or five years, for example, and the means to be used played a role, and why was it not finally chosen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u246	Perhaps I should leave that specific question about the estimates to the Secretary of State or come back to it in the second term. My own tendency is to ask the rams about why, just to understand it, but to completely, but also completely refrain from political direction. It must simply be crystal clear that the figures that come out of the Ministry of Finance are the figures based on the best possible estimate. So I'm asking, why are you making that assessment? That's what I did with the inheritance tax and the gift tax. See Mrs De Vries' point for 2019. Of course I asked: hey, that's interesting, why do you come down from that and what's the logic behind that? Then they told me this story. They said it just doesn't look so good right now, in combination with the upside risk. But I do not want to say at any time to the politicians at Finance: this may not be a good time for someone politically, so why don't you just turn the buttons? I'm not one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u247	In my view, a lot of questions have not been answered, and that certainly applies to questions about dividend taxation. But I am so puzzled by the fact that the Minister of Finance is standing here screaming that the Council of State would not say that this should be in a separate legislative proposal. If the Minister is proud of abolishing the dividend tax and he is convinced that it must be done, then he can simply give that measure separately to the Chamber so that we can vote separately on it. That way it won't be forced, as it is now, into a mess package.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u248	Mrs Leijten is choking things in such a way that you have to look forward to even saying the beginning of a yes or a no. 'Cause you don't know exactly what you're saying yes to or no to. I'd be happy to go over it with her again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u249	Now I've got that suspicion on the mess package.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u250	Mr President, I am going to try to finish this in peace. I think that's helpful. Look, I agree with Mr Van Rooijen when he says that the track records of the various Cabinets in following all the opinions of the Council of State are indeed not one hundred percent. Apparently that wasn't the case when he was a State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, and even now the track record isn't one hundred percent. That's my perception, too. I have seen this particularly often in the First Chamber. Why was it so important to me on this subject? I thought it was so important on this subject because it is a state-law issue that I think is what I thought about it. And I thought it was so important because I also realize that with these legislative proposals, you just have to do it in a pure way. So I'm referring to the Hills Act last year and this bill now. So I looked at that myself, and I also asked the Secretary of State to think carefully about it and to consider it properly. We have also marked this with each other in advance: if you do get criticism of this from your state-law conscience, then perhaps you should reconsider.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u251	Of course, I didn't ask for this at all. This cabinet is extremely convinced that it is good to abolish the dividend tax. At least in the meantime, the cabinet is very convinced of this, but I can still quote this finance minister from what he said in the debate last year, that he had not yet seen an investigation showing that this would help, and that it was indeed a gamble. Oh, no, the last thing the VVD said. If the cabinet is now so convinced that it is good to abolish the dividend tax, why mess this up? Then why not just stand here proudly and force that choice at 76 votes...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u252	Yes. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u253	... because two parties want this, while the rest can vote against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u254	I think the Secretary of State is going to complain to me afterwards because I am going to say even more about the dividend tax, even though he wanted to do it himself so badly. But let me now at least go along with what I said last year in this house. Last year I also referred to this measure as 'well-sustainable'. Last year I mentioned all these three elements. But I shall return to Mrs Leijten's question. I think we're doing this in a decent way. The criticism of the Council of State at the time, in 2015, was about a link between box 1 and box 3. Those were two things that were not interrelated. These are a number of packages that are interrelated. That has been the touchstone and has been approved by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u255	Mrs. Leijten, you want to respond again. Finally, really, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u256	Yes, Mr President, I find this really very sad. You can hide behind all kinds of directives of collecting laws and an opinion from the Council of State, but you could have just said: we are proud of abolishing the dividend tax and here you have a law, vote for or against.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u257	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u258	But apparently this Minister of Finance is scared, afraid of MPs in this Chamber and afraid of MPs in the Senate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u259	I suggest you move on, because you have now reached the final issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u260	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Moreover, I do not have the illusion that anyone else will vote on that bill that we were just talking about if it were to be tabled in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u261	Mr. Van Rooijen, we're not going to repeat the questions again. This point has already been raised a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u262	I wasn't going to, because I've already dealt with it. But the Minister also talked about the Tax Office. Is he going to come back to that later, or can I ask a question about that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u263	I thought I had treated it generously; not as generous as Mr Van Rooij's speaking time, but generously. Or did a question just lie there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u264	I just wanted to respond, if you don't mind. I shall do so briefly, because I have put it in detail in the speech. You know that the 50PLUS Group has recently, or indeed previously, tabled a motion, which has been held, for a second Secretary of State. That is not because my group has no confidence in the Minister and the Secretary of State, the duo, the couple, the two of Finance. In two other departments there are three. I think they are much less busy than these two, but that aside. That has to do with quartets within the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u265	Now Mr Van Rooijen is hitting a delicate point!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u266	My question is: what is wrong with you having a second ruler in the framework of damage control at least for this cabinet period? Then this Secretary of State, who will be here every week in the coming years, will remain in plenary and in committee, and also abroad, and there will be a second, who will be solely responsible for the Tax Administration. Then this State Secretary can do the law well and the other State Secretary the execution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u267	That has indeed been discussed in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u268	I should like to leave that answer to the Secretary of State himself in particular. I cannot look into the future, but with this very specific measure proposed by Mr Van Rooijen, you must have a clear logic why you think that would help. I haven't heard that from Mr Van Rooijen either. You should at least switch first why that would help. Then you may have two political leaders, but then you obviously didn't solve the problems in-house.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u269	I actually want you to either leave the subject to the Secretary of State or just go along with it. Otherwise, everything will be redone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u270	(NL) Mr President, I've already almost scratched the meadow for the Secretary of State, so I'm moving on to block five.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u271	So the Secretary of State will come back to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u272	I thought Mr Van Rooijen was going to ask this. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u273	I had a hunch too, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. I have arrived at the last block, about reforms and the steps we are taking for the future. I realize that many of the topics have already been discussed. I will also go through a number of separate issues here. We have already talked about the pension system and the climate targets. I'll say a little more about that in a moment. Mr Sneller asked whether we are also preparing for future reforms. Yes, we do. See also the discussion about Understanding Quality. I share very much with Mr Sneller that you should also prepare yourself for less enjoyable scenarios, in which perhaps you should. By the way, a very complicated political question comes after that, because, of course, we live in a coalition country. However, I very much agree with him that we should continue to think about reforms, especially in view of what can happen in macroeconomic terms, given Italy and the Brexit. Mr. Chairman. A lot of members have asked about the Monitor Brede Welvaart, Mr Van Raan in particular but also the spokesmen of GroenLinks, D66 and the Christian Union. They have said a lot about it, but they have also asked a number of questions. Mr Bruins also specifically asked about the debate in the debate on accountability. In the opinion on the Millions Note, the Council of State has also indeed drawn attention to the issue. That has also been addressed. I also really want to highlight the importance of this as a cabinet. It is also really my personal belief that money is important, in some respects even indispensable, but that it is a starting qualification for well-being. Even for me as Minister of Finance, it can't be an end in itself. So I very much agree with the Members who are inspired to look beyond just the money. It can also contribute to the social debate. In the Millions note I really want to mark that. Many aspects are covered. This year, for example, we have focused on sustainability, on inequality, on debt, on the labour market, on the confidence that Dutch people have in the economy and in society. The whole package is not behind it, but many subjects come along of course. Some Members would say: can we do more next time? I'd like to think about that. What is complicated, and I want to be transparent about this to the Chamber, is that we still have a number of measurement questions with each other with regard to many things that the Cabinet wants and which end up in the Broad Prosperity Monitor. It is always dangerous to predict, but if I had to make a prediction, then my suspicion is that the Chamber will continue to question this cabinet and subsequent cabinets on the increasingly linking of those two. I think we'll talk about that again next time on Accountability Day. We're heading in that direction, but it has to have added value. The whole bundling, let alone encrypting in tables, is complicated. I think we really need to take it one step at a time. Maybe I should also highlight that due to the great enthusiasm that I taste in the Chamber and for a bit also in myself, you would almost forget that the Monitor Brede Welvaart was only released for the first time this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u274	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u275	We have indeed seen a Monitor Brede Prosperity at the Millions Note. This means that, for the first time, we are going to look backwards in 2020. At the same time, we see that the director of the CBS says: I want to make this increasingly quantitative, ever smarter. It's a PhD physicist, so if anyone can do it, it's him! Can I therefore expect us to see, in May already, a bit more extensive and that the Prime Minister will also be speaking a little longer about the broader aspects of prosperity? Do we really go step by step towards full incorporation of this monitor in policy accountability?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u276	Knowing the Prime Minister, he is already looking forward to it. I would like to puzzle on the how, because I want Mr Bruins to taste it, I do not think "overpromise." Many crucial issues that are on the monitor are, of course, precisely those that every colleague in the cabinet always encounters. In addition to the complexity of measuring, there is also an element of "shoemaker stays with your read." But let me just say that I am going to see how we can step by step in the direction suggested by Mr Van Raan, Mr Bruins and others.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u277	I welcome those words, including the definition that money is just a starting qualification for well-being. I like that one. Thank you for the commitment to continue thinking. I do have one more question. The General Financial Reviews as we have them now are actually based on the current economic system. There are system errors that the Monitor Wide Prosperity shows. So you have to think about whether the system is right, to put it that way. The danger that this minister is running is that he is within the current system. I have used the comparison before. I think he is on a tennis field when he actually has to play hockey because it is very different things. Let me give you one example, which makes it a little more insightful. The current economy, the economic growth we are talking about, is always at the expense of CO emissions. The decoupling of CO emissions and growth has not yet been achieved. So you have to think about that. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u278	Yes. I would like to slow down Mr Van Raan's enthusiasm in that sense a little bit that it is not so easy to do it and the question is: how do you want to do it? My expectation is absolutely that what is happening is purely in the appreciation of companies by analysts and analysts that topics that are broader than strictly financial in society will be increasingly taken into account. See also the other social discussion about true cost: the real cost of a product in which you encrypt more than just what you pay off. So that way it will go, but I want to be a little careful, because before you know it, I'm gonna make the life of the Treasury very complicated, when all I've had is a more fuzzy discussion. It shouldn't be. So there's my double hesitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u279	I understand this hesitation, but I am pleased that the Minister says that the fundamental problem, the systemic criticism, is being considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u280	Oh, yeah. Of course, at some point we will also encounter the great political differences in this Chamber, because Mr Van Raan's views are very different from those of the VVD, for example. So at some point...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u281	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u282	Well, this cube does, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u283	I think this was the last of it, too, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u284	This is the last block. Mr Bruins asked about the social unions. At that point I wanted to highlight that the NWB and the BNG are also successfully issuing social housing bonds. I wanted to leave it at this point. I would also like to mention the green bonds that Mr Slootweg and Mr Bruins asked for. I also notice that they are eagerly excited, but even before I was questioned about it, I have informed the Chamber that I have asked the Treasury internally to have this sorted out. It's a potentially very attractive thing, but you have to do it right. It's gonna take some time. I am often impatient myself, but perhaps I may get some respite, because I am not walking slower than the timeline that I initially outlined. Before we can really get out of here, we're just another six months, three-quarters of a year away. That's just reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u285	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u286	Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Vries asked when the legislative proposals on the labour market would be put forward. The Labour Market Act will come into balance once the opinion has been received from the Council of State, but at least this autumn. Mrs De Vries, of course, also knows that the cabinet is in the process of replacing the DBA Act. The Minister of SZW is in consultation with the social partners on the measures to be taken on the payment of wages in the event of illness. In addition, the cabinet sets up a committee to examine the future of the labour market. With regard to Mr Nijboer, I would like to say that the Secretary of State also informed the Chamber on 12 September, but in any case at the beginning of September I did not want to add anything to that. Mr Nijboer was right to draw attention to another important point: working poor. I think we've all seen the report. I just happened to speak to Mr Putters yesterday, of course, about that report. The good news is that this percentage is still relatively low in the Netherlands. But of course, you don't want poverty anyway. The promise that working will free you from poverty, of course, you want to live up to it. That is indeed just a point of attention. A permanent job often helps the most. That's something the cabinet wants, too. Moreover, I believe that the numbers do run until the middle of the crisis and not until 2017. So I would expect there to be an improvement in it. Finally, I would like to mention that, building on the previous cabinet, which even in the crisis actually spent extra money on poverty policy, particularly in the second half of the year, we are working on this. We're gonna go through that line and we're gonna do another 80 million on top of that in this cabinet period. In view of the political considerations, we are adding another 25 million in the area of debt. So we are really doing something, but I also consider this to be a problem. Mr. Chairman. I think I've gotten to the last piece. Mr Sneller asked about the emancipation of women in the labour market. I very much agree with him that this issue is important, but the really extensive discussion, I think, should still take place with the ministers of OCW and SZW. I am pleased to note that we are engaged in an ibo, an inter-departmental policy investigation, which is precisely about part-time work. I also recently spoke to experts at the Ministry of Finance, because we all think that this is an important issue. Mr Azarkan asked about the pension agreement. I have all kinds of views about it, but I have to keep them to myself until the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment sees white smoke. Mr Azarkan also asked about the AOW age. I haven't changed my views on that. Mr Bruins and Mr Nijboer will be speaking in a moment about the tax aspects of the housing market and a few other questions. Last but not least, I would like to say something about the climate, which is an important issue. For that, too, I do not want to disrupt the process that is going on very intensively on all these tables. However, I would like to stress with Mr Snels and Mrs Leijten that it is very important that we do this energy transition because we really have a problem with the climate. That's one. The cabinet is very motivated to achieve a real transition there. But you have to do it in such a way that the whole society can experience it. Ideally, you also make good agreements in Europe. If you don't, you're gonna have to do a hell of a piece of your own. But society must be able to experience that. This applies not only to people with a larger wallet, but also to middle incomes and people at the bottom. This has also been explicitly agreed as a picket pole within the cabinet. I cannot anticipate where we are at the moment at these different tables, because then I walk through an entire army of breeding chickens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u287	I really want you to answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u288	Okay. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer rightly asked about the state of play in the financial sector ten years after the crisis. We've had an exchange of views on it before. I would also like to say to Mr Nijboer that I will be coming later this year with a more detailed letter in which I would like to talk about the impact of what we have done and what you might add in terms of integrity and stability, what measures you could take there and what effects I would hope to expect and what I would do with it. Mr Nijboer also asked about money laundering at ING. I think I have been very clear about this before. It is extremely serious what happened there. That is why I not only contacted the President-in-Office, but also had extensive contact with De Nederlandsche Bank. The Dutch Bank has also spoken to me, as I have shared with the Chamber, about the situation at ING, about its confidence in the improvement plan and about its less rosy sector as a whole. This remains an important focus, not only here but also in Europe. I have also raised this issue with colleagues in Europe. There too it is seen that it is a problem, not least in Denmark, where there has been a slightly different but similar case. Mr. Chairman. If I see it correctly, I only have the responses to the counter-budgets, although, frankly, hardly any questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u289	Then I'm going to see Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u290	In half a sentence, the Minister referred to the word "dwelling market." I thought, "Well, here it comes!', But nothing came of it. And then Mr Nijboer also came forward. I asked the question about the impact of quantitative expansion on the social sectors. I especially zoomed in on the housing market. I called it buy-to-let phenomenon. What is the government's attitude to this phenomenon? Is that desirable or undesirable? And what are policy options?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u291	I felt so much pressure to come to a conclusion that I do indeed see that I have skipped two or three questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u292	Well, you've spoken for over three hours. You've had plenty of time to go into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u293	Absolutely, but that's why I felt some pressure to come to a conclusion. First of all, on the first point, on overheating and the ECB. I understand what Mr Bruins is saying about quantitative easing, quantitative enlargement, but he also knows the complexity of having the debate with me about the President of the ECB and the bank's policy. I don't want and cannot comment on that either. In general, you can see that we all see that a lower interest rate combined with a housing market where prices develop strongly, for everyone, both for people buying a house and for investors, is an attractive development that probably will not stay. The second question is an even wider demand for the housing market, which was also raised by Mr Nijboer. I'm gonna stay away from taxation for a while. The Secretary of State is very busy with that. The government's absolute ambition is to build more, especially in the middle segment; to make homes from around €800 to €1,000 available for rental. There are also a lot of measures on the other side of the housing market that have been taken to ensure more stability. If you are very honest in looking at the Dutch economy, part of the growth is also caused by the rise in the housing market. The previous cabinet deserves a compliment, because loan-to-value is at 100% from this year on. That is still high in the international context. We're gonna do something about the mortgage interest deduction. Apart from the different views in this house, it could reduce a potential next bubble. I hardly dare say it, with Mr Van Rooijen in the Chamber, but the abolition of the Hillen Act also has an effect on the housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u294	For the sake of time, also because the Minister has been talking for many hours, I would ask for a letter in which the cabinet specifically addresses the desirability of the buy-to-let phenomenon and the policy options we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u295	Then I'm going to make that request to the Secretary of State. I think she's been talking to the Chamber a lot about this. She is now in conversation with all kinds of parties in the housing market. I'd like to say that, but I'm bouncing it through the wall to my colleague in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u296	That is a promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u297	Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u298	Should I go straight to Mr Nijboer's question about banlieues? Shall I say something about that, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u299	Yes, Mr. Slootweg, what do you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u300	My question is another, so first you can ask questions about the housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u301	Okay. You wanted to say something about the banlieues?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u302	Mr Nijboer asked about the formation of banlieues or ghettos. Fortunately, it is true that we do not have them in the Netherlands. We shouldn't want to. That is really something I know in France and which would not be a good thing. The good news is that the quality of life and safety is good, on average, as shown by the biennial barometer of livingability. At the same time, municipalities themselves still have opportunities to work with market players and corporations on the composition of neighbourhoods. In addition, I believe that a Member of Parliament, Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks, has tabled a motion to pay attention to the opportunities available to municipalities and corporations to prevent the emergence of new vulnerable neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u303	Then I'm going to see Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u304	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to add to Mr Bruins' suggestion, if a letter is requested, to link it to the ECB's buy-back programme, the QE. What effect does that have on the position of people with or without a mortgage? I notice that people who can pay to have a mortgage have unprecedentedly low burdens and that this is not related to the people who can't. To what extent is there a pass-through?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u305	I would like to ask whether the Minister for BZK can make a distinction between buying and renting, because that seems to me to be a logical distinction, but I do not want to go on a path where we are drawing quantitative easying into this discussion. At best you can say something in general...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u306	Try to use as little English terms as possible, because I have noticed that in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u307	I'm trying to control myself even further, Mr. Chairman. Quantitative broadening is a crystal clear concept for every television viewer. Quantitative broadening is the policy of the European Central Bank, the ECB. That is a policy that I cannot comment on from my position. What I do want and can give you is: to what extent does it matter to buy-to-let if the interest rate is low, or in a situation where the interest rate is higher? I'm very sorry, but I'm sure there's someone who can translate that neatly. Buy to rent or buy to invest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u308	Any questions about the living quarters? No? Then I'll go to Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u309	Mr President, I am referring to 'green bonds' because I do not want to use the English word for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u310	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u311	Why are green bonds such a problem? I'd like to have a little more insight into that. Last time I understood the Minister in such a way that he said: I would actually like to; the investigation phase is over. Hence my question: what is this in? I ask this because we see that the largest pension fund in the Netherlands buys green bonds from Belgium.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u312	My impression is that we are not slow, but that we want to do this properly. First of all, this means coordination within the cabinet. Mr Slootweg can imagine that several ministers are involved: the responsible for EZK, for the environment and so on. Then, of course, you want to do it wisely. Because the questions that come right around the corner are: nice idea, but what does that mean, is that better for public finances or worse, and how do you do that? There is therefore also a phase of international research. I would like to say to Mr Slootweg that I still have a list of what we have to do. I have only indicated from the outset that I am motivated to do something on this subject, which I had already picked up before there were any parliamentary questions and that we are doing so as quickly as possible, but as solid and slow as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u313	For the sake of clarity, Mr. President. I am really looking forward to getting this straight: what is needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u314	I'll send you a note, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u315	I'm going to see Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u316	We're getting a letter about the financial sector. I hope that it says that the buffers should be raised and not that deregulation should continue. I also asked a question about the interview with Mr Breukink. Today it was in the NRC and yesterday in an opinion article in Het Financieele Dagblad. How does the Minister feel about that? If, as Commissioner for a bank responsible for money laundering and terrorist financing, you want to regain trust, I do not think this is the way to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u317	I would like to say a few words about this. That is what Mr Nijboer and I agree on, but I think it is important to stress this again: what happened at ING is very serious to me. I think I have mentioned it extremely seriously. One. It is quite clear that I am looking at the world through a paradigm other than the author of this article. That is what all my comments have been aimed at so far. Two. Politics, but also me, is, of course, being thrown out of the way there. What I have said about it every time, I have weighed consciously, carefully, very carefully. I have taken into account the seriousness of the case and the importance of the sector. As a general rule, I am not seeking to "bashen" any group of people, I must no longer say that I do wrong in the terms I choose for political gain. I have tried to formulate very carefully there. Furthermore, everyone in this country is free to be critical, including me. I'm not sugar. So that's what he can find.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u318	I don't want to lock him up either because he said so. I mean, he can find what he finds. Only, he is a Commissioner at a bank that has really serious integrity problems and also in the opinion article shows that he does not understand what the legislation on money laundering is like. 'Cause he says, " ING has to track it down." No, you need to know your client and who you're doing business with. It's not a government task to... It really doesn't make any sense what he's saying. At that bank, where that's really the biggest problem right now. So I expect the Minister to take a stand as well. He does not need to change legislation immediately, but he can choose his position in the debate. He's also being addressed himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u319	That's exactly what I did in this file. From the moment this file came to my desk, I think I have been very explicit, as far as my responsibilities allow, articulating what I find. I cannot talk about the criminal law aspects; I do not think Mr Nijboer is asking me to do so either. This is a debate that we may still be having, but that is what Mr Dekker is responsible for. What happened is extremely serious. It is also really up to the bank and every bank in the sector to solve this. Just because I think it is so serious, I asked De Nederlandsche Bank: do you have enough resources, do you have enough people, do you have to do something about regulation? Mr Nijboer has seen the answer to that. This is what the Commissioner writes. I have had intrusive discussions with the ING's President-in-Office on the various aspects of this case. That's been multiple conversations. He must be able to trust that I am talking about the issues of this, but that I am not bringing out details of them. He's my point of contact, and I had that debate with him. The opinion article doesn't change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u320	Finally, Mr. Nijboer. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u321	Of course it does, because then it's actually much worse. If you have had several conversations with Mr Wijers, about how things have to be different, that this culture is not right, that someone who is responsible must also take responsibility and step down as a member of the board of directors, and then a Commissioner performs it to give such an interview. He says, "Those politicians are whining." Actually, he's saying, "The Minister's whining." Surely there is every reason to ask Mr Wijers if that is the opinion of the ING Supervisory Board? And if it is, it can't go on like this anymore, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u322	Again, I have been very explicit, both on what I think of the bank and on what I think of the responsibilities in the sector. I talked to the President-in-Office about that. I spoke to the President of the Netherlands Bank about this. That's how it's supposed to be. For the record, as I said just now, I do not, of course, agree with the statement made in the article. I think that's a whole different paradigm to look at the world than mine, and I think that's a whole different paradigm from that of most or everyone here in this Chamber. But he can continue writing that article. And that he's critical of me in that... Well, I'm not sugar. He won't be the first, not the last.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u323	I would like to ask one question from Mrs Leijten and one from Mr Snels, because the Secretary of State still has to do so. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u324	I'm going to ask a question, but I'm also going to notice something. To my questions about the unfair distribution of the climate bill, about the responsibility of the defence plans, about whether the care money that is left this year can be preserved for next year, and about whether there is another set possible for the upcoming crises that the Minister is planning, I have not received any answers at all. And those were important things in my text. And I have another question about the dividend tax. Because when it comes to the accountability of policy choices, this finance minister is getting stricter for his colleagues, because they need to have achievable goals, and we need to be able to see the consequences of an investment. Can I refer to the underlying plan on how the abolition of the dividend tax will be assessed against what it needs to achieve, namely more jobs and a better locational environment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u325	On that first point: I have not only talked a lot, but I have also said a lot. But if I have forgotten a question from Mrs Leijten here and there, I can always come back to that. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State is going to say a few words about the dividend tax. But let us be clear: I have also exchanged here with the Chamber earlier that we, as a cabinet, and therefore also the Secretary of State and myself, consider everything together to be a very justifiable proposal. We're not doing it because of the multinationals. We do it because of the jobs, directly and indirectly, for citizens in the Netherlands. I can talk about it a lot longer, but I feel some urge on your part to stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u326	The Secretary of State will discuss this subject in detail. It's been said all along. Mr. Snels, one question applies to you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u327	"I promise to behave in accordance with the laws, regulations and codes of conduct that apply to me. And I promise I will make an effort to maintain and promote confidence in the financial sector." That's the banker's oath. Let me come back to ING's Commissioner. Look, this isn't about bringing in disciplinary justice right away. But there is also a periodic discussion on the suitability of Commissioners. Is this something that De Nederlandsche Bank is talking about with the supervisory board or with the chairman of the supervisory board? For Mr Nijboer is right that this particular Commissioner does not know the law, even though he took the banker's oath. And it says he'll abide by the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u328	Mr. Chairman. That's up to De Nederlandsche Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u329	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I'd like to suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u330	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u331	Mr President, thank you very much for that. Just like last year, it is a great pleasure to be standing here again. I would also like to thank Members for their questions. Given the number of questions that have already been answered and the questions that I have yet to answer, I will keep my praises brief for the quality of the discussion. However, I must say that I always find it very nice and important to bring together the discussions that we are going to have in the context of the Tax Plan here again today. If I try to sort the questions a little bit, I have five subjects. "Blocks" is a big word, because sometimes there are only one or two questions. I mention locational environment, tax avoidance, lower labour charges and shift from direct to indirect, greening and feasibility/Tax service. For each theme, I will try to give the answers. Let me start with the locational climate. It's always good to start with that. The cabinet wants to make it clear that the Netherlands is and remains a very attractive country for entrepreneurs. We talk very often about taxation, but the really important factors are, of course, a well-educated workforce, an efficient labour market, predictable regulation which is also being respected, but of course I cannot deny that taxation is also an issue. That is why this cabinet is proposing a coherent package of measures, consisting of tariff reductions financed by basic broadening and an introduction of something new in the Netherlands: the withholding taxes. With regard to the tariff reduction, we know that we are going to reduce corporate tax to 16% and 22,25% in 2021. The low rate of 16% is aimed in particular at SMEs and the general rate, the rate going to 22.25%, is approximately close to the European average. It's up there. On average, we are 21.9% in Europe. The cabinet also proposes to abolish the dividend tax. These tax reductions are mainly financed by basic measures. The most important one is the reduction of interest rate deductions that follows from the ATAD legislative proposal. That is not part of the tax package legislative proposals that have gone to the Chamber, but it is a separate legislative proposal. Cover also comes from the reduction of loss relief for companies and from the calculation of minimum capital for banks and insurers. On balance, in this way, we make entrepreneurship with own funds a long-cherished wish of the cabinet and also of the Chamber.... and the Netherlands remains competitive at the same time. The Minister has already discussed a number of issues relating to the locational environment, but there were a number of specific questions, including in the tax field, concerning, for example, the dividend tax. I'll start with that right away. Mrs Leijten asked where the tax advantage would actually end up. Is that with the foreign governments or with the shareholders? This is, by the way, a question that we have seen in the debate a number of times before, and my answer is unfortunately the same as the previous one. Time is not a healer here. The answer is that we cannot make a good quantitative assessment of this precise breakdown. In order to assess which part of the shareholders cannot offset the dividend tax, you need to know exactly who those shareholders are. You need to know in what position they are a shareholder, whether they are a shareholder dividend or whether they are looking in an investment fund for portfolio gains, where this investor lives, whether there is a tax convention, or who has sufficient income to offset dividend tax, and so on. We've reported that a few times. Despite the fact that we do want to see what we can do, we can only make a rough qualitative assessment when it comes to the exact parts. I have already said that it was estimated by several members of the Chamber that it is true that most of us, according to our forecasts, are going to the foreign authorities and a smaller proportion to the foreign shareholders. In addition, part of the problem of not being able to calculate is now not visible. That is perhaps the most important argument, because we do not know which investors have invested in Dutch shares as a result of the existing dividend tax. That is precisely what we think is very important. We want as many foreign shareholders as possible to invest in Dutch business. Those who have not yet invested, but do want to, thus benefit from the abolition of the dividend tax. Mr Snels actually referred to the opinion of the Advocate General at the Supreme Court. He said that there would be no legal problem with the sustainability of the dividend tax. At least that should be the message. The answer to that is actually quite simple, namely that I cannot say much about it yet, because it is not yet a public opinion. As far as I know, it hasn't appeared yet. It is true that in the summer the European Court of Justice asked the Supreme Court to state whether the Hoge Raad wished to maintain the questions referred for a preliminary ruling on the Dutch proceedings relating to a German investment fund, because that is where it came from. The European Court of Justice raises this question following a recent ruling in the Danish case concerning Fidelity Funds. He has also received some attention here in the Netherlands. The Advocate General has drawn up an opinion on this matter. That was sent to the parties for comments. It should be clear: it is not up to me, but ultimately to the Supreme Court to make this opinion public. We expect the opinion to come out in one or two weeks if the normal procedures are followed. Only then will there be more clarity. Then it becomes clear what the possible consequences of the ruling of the European Court of Justice on the Dutch situation might be. It is therefore really premature, I say to Mr Snels, to comment on the possible outcome of this case and to conclude, moreover, that there would be no legal problem with the sustainability of components of the dividend tax. I can't prove that it is, because I haven't seen the verdict either. The only thing I can say is that there are currently 11,000 objections to taxing dividends. Over 7,000 have come to trial. The total value of these court cases is just over 1.5 billion when it comes to the disputed attacks. We expect the tax on dividends to continue, either on the left or on the right. That is what you see when you look back in history at many of these European statements. Anyway, we can't conclude that it means nothing at all on balance or that there's nothing left of it. But to say that there are no legal problems, I found a rather bold statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u332	You don't have the advice yourself yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u333	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u334	I don't have the advice either, but I've had some contacts with people who might know what might be in the opinion. It is relevant, however, and I was struck by the fact that, in the explanatory memorandum on the abolition of the dividend tax, which is very concise, reference is made to its legal sustainability. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that the opinion of the Advocate General may be important for the discussion on sustainability and that it may therefore be obvious to ask the Council of State for its opinion again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u335	I agree with Mr Snels on the first, but not on the second. It is indeed open for debate. We have, of course, asked the same thing. We know that part of that base is under pressure. That is also what we see in the Danish ruling. I believe that this involved 1.4 billion. We have a $1.6 billion lawsuit ourselves. We know that there is indeed an attack on part of the dividend tax base. At the same time, it is not the case that Europe, or the Court of Justice, says: there is no good justification for holding dividend taxes anymore. At the same time, if you try to look at it very simply, the following applies. We live in a European internal market. We have all kinds of rules for that. At the moment, depending on the country where you live and depending on the tax convention that exists, you have to pay tax or no tax on holding a share of a Dutch listed company. That is ultimately a weakness and we know it. Whether it can completely remove the base around the dividend tax is still to be seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u336	Thank you for the answers, but then it is true and I am considering a second-term motion that the question of legal sustainability is important for the legal process. Then it is also interesting to ask the Council of State specifically for advice on this specific question, after publication of the opinion of the Advocate General. Because it is a complicated legal discussion and because, as far as I understand, there are also major differences between the Dutch situation, especially since 2008 and, for example, the Danish situation. Then I find it too easy for the cabinet to say: because of the legal sustainability, we will abolish the entire dividend tax. I do not think that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u337	That seems to me to be a kind of shortcut that is not a Dutch word either, I believe, a cut off from the reasoning that the only reason the cabinet would have indicated would be that it would not be legally sustainable. That is one of the many arguments that have been put forward in the explanatory memorandum. But it is not the case that the measure stands or falls to that particular question. So again, I agree that it is an interesting debate. We are going to talk about this, not only in the Netherlands, but also in a number of other countries that have the same problems. But that does not mean that the reason for the government's proposed measure will lapse.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u338	Brief question, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u339	I would have liked to ask a question about abroad, but you yourself say that this problem exists elsewhere, and those countries do not abolish the tax. So that whole argument, I think, you are right to put aside. My question is this. It's been in publications before. Have you been examined and if not, will you do so? What does the European Commission think of this proposal? Is it not a distortion of tax competition, race to the bottom and so on, if we abolish a tax, while the whole of Europe, except the United Kingdom, maintains the dividend tax? I know that Brussels is looking at it, but I have not noticed at all that you find anything or that you have done something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u340	I believe that this tax is a Dutch matter and that the Commission is not ultimately concerned with these tax measures. I really think that's wise. We have to look carefully and listen to the European case law, which continues. I have just said that the Court of Justice in Europe has an opinion on this too, and we are doing so in general. We have to look at this and listen to it, but in particular we have to focus on its impact on Dutch legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u341	Short question. Could it be state aid?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u342	That seems to me to be a good thing, because it is a general law that is open to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u343	I know the Secretary of State as a person who doesn't just say anything. I think I remember him saying just now, when he talked about corporate taxation: and that is what we are on the average of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u344	Something upstairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u345	Slightly above average. Why did the Secretary of State say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u346	I could have linked that directly to questions that were asked about the race to the bottom. I think there were two MPs asking for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u347	Then you'll come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u348	Not necessarily. In fact, I have answered the question as to whether we are the ones participating in that race to the bottom. In any case, let me say that we have not yet passed the average.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u349	How does that relate to the dividend tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u350	There's no race to the bottom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u351	I would like to ask the Secretary of State the question I just asked the Minister, but he referred it to the Secretary of State. What assumptions does the government have as to what the consequences will be of abolishing the dividend tax? Then, as a parliament, we can control the government's ability to actually achieve what is now felt in fibres and what is being adopted about jobs and about headquarters. Can the Secretary of State explain this or else send it to the Chamber for legal treatment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u352	We have also discussed this on several occasions. It was also noted from the Chamber, I think, how does the Secretary of State know when what he is doing is successful? When, for example, is it successful to combat tax competition? So you need to know that on the basis of reports you get about that. Sometimes that's very measurable. In case of tax avoidance, we agreed to do so on the basis of a CEO report. For example, we will look at the amount of flows going through it, the amount of mailboxes, if you could define them, in the Netherlands. This way you are always looking for measures to see if you are successful in doing so. Sometimes it is more complicated, as with the dividend tax. That is actually the debate that we have had here, in all openness, about eight times. One of the reasons we want to take this measure is that we want to make the Netherlands an attractive country of residence and that we want to preserve it. We are dealing with other countries that are also doing their best to be as attractive as possible. One of our competitors in the field of major headquarters is England, for example. They are dealing with a Brexit and will do their utmost to keep headquarters in their country. We know that. We would like headquarters not to leave the Netherlands. That is an important assumption, because headquarters ultimately provide jobs. Jobs are employment and employment is also tax revenue, says the Secretary of State. That is why we consider this important. Is it now successful if an x number of headquarters stays or doesn't stay? In this case, we cannot define that precisely. It is not the only measure we are taking. We're taking a lot more action. At the same time, we are lowering the Vpb and broadening the basis. It is not easy to determine the effect of a measure contained in a package of 30 measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u353	2 billion, year in, year out, doesn't come in. It is based on a huge assumption, but we do not have any clear assumptions that we can control. We cannot control from 2 billion to see whether what the government promises us is being achieved. I wonder how this fits in with the new system of the Ministry of Finance, which a colleague of the Secretary of State will only get his money if he comes up with real policy plans that we can control.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u354	It is a bit of an open question that I will only interpret in my direction. In the explanatory statement, we indicated what the arguments were for taking this measure. Those arguments were examined on the basis of the Compatibility Act. Anyone can find whether that's enough or not, but that's how we did it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u355	Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u356	Thank you. We know by now that it is a reasoned guess, but nevertheless a guess. The goal is to make it attractive for companies to come here. I have a question about the situation where companies leave if we do not abolish the dividend tax. Professor Van de Streek has already made a preliminary effort to calculate the departure costs. If a multinational like Shell leaves, there are costs involved. The company has to pay the taxes. That aspect's gotten a little snowy. Is the Secretary of State prepared to calculate for us the tax consequences if the multinational Shell moves its head office? You don't have to do that here and now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u357	I think Mr Van Raan is asking what the tax consequences of the departure of a company's head office are. It is clear that we will have less tax revenue. The Netherlands is quite a prosperous country. Some of you have started to do so. That is also because we generally have a fairly good social policy. We do a lot of things, but it takes money. We'll collect that money with the taxes. Fortunately, we are not only bringing this up from the citizens, but also from the companies. Let me finish the story, because it's important to explain why we want these companies to be here. In the end, they also pay taxes. If I have one point in my policy agenda that I want to make clear, it is that everyone has to pay their fair share of taxes, including companies. Well, of course they have to be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u358	Thanks for the answer. I understand. I understand that companies are taxing. That's important, I admit, but that wasn't my question. My question is what happens when a company like Shell leaves the Netherlands. Will there be a tax bill? There was talk of having to be settled on the issue of goodwill. There are also percentages for this. However, the whole thing has never become clear. Is the Secretary of State prepared to put together what would happen if Shell, with its stock exchange value, left the Netherlands? It might be, that that's a huge...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u359	If the question is so specific, the answer is very brief and clear: we do not deal with individual cases here. I've said that a number of times. I am not going to depict any taxable person's expenses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u360	Yeah, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u361	Clear. I get that. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look at the mechanism or posts? Because there has to be a tax bill. We agree on that. The fact that he cannot deal with individual cases is fine, but is he willing to take us with him, give us access to what happens fiscally when a company, a multinational like Shell, leaves the Netherlands, without mentioning specific companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u362	This is the third time the same question. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u363	I'll do my best to see what that take-away process would look like, because that depends on what kind of company you are. In general, I can write 100,000 things about that. It really doesn't make much sense to try that way, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u364	I would like to give you the opportunity to ask a question, but not the same question in different forms.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u365	I won't, Mr. Chairman. I also understand that we have talked about it many times in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u366	No, Mr. Van Raan. You've just been here, and you've asked three questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u367	Mr. Van Raan had the floor, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u368	No, you had the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u369	Oops, I had the floor. It's your call, Mr. Chairman. I know that we have often talked about dividend taxation in this house, and I also understand that many questions have already been asked, but I would almost say that we are talking about EUR 2 billion that we spend a year, and we have to be able to account for that. At least I want to ask one more question. We have often asked what is behind it. I understand that the government's line of defence is now: it provides jobs and contributes to the climate of establishment, and we tell it as often as possible. My question is whether investigations have actually been carried out in the Ministry of Finance or elsewhere. Were there any analyses? Is there anything worked out, other than what we know, namely Wiebes' memos, who have been cutting and sticking in 30 other memos and especially got what came out of him? So, for God's sake, what's the basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u370	Easy, easy. Yes, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u371	I would almost say that all memos written in the last few years have already been shared with the public via WOB requests. In it you can see exactly what is written about it. If there has been an area of policy exploration where there is much public clarity, it is at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u372	I just don't think it's funny, because I really think it's a very serious matter. The Secretary of State is acting as if there are extensive analyses, but there are simply no, so I'm just gonna ask the question again. Of course, we finally got the memos we asked for and they didn't exist at first. Eventually, one main memo was manufactured by the son of a nuclear physicist. Our current Minister for Economic Affairs has put this together. I am asking now, I cannot imagine that this is not the case, whether there are any assumptions in the ministry about what is going to be done, about how we are going to spend the 2 billion. Or did we stick to those memos?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u373	I believe that not only this evening, but also earlier, as the Minister did for me, I have given a number of considerations which are also set out in the explanatory memorandum on the basis of which the government considers this to be a sensible measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u374	The bill will also come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u375	The bill will, of course, come to the Chamber and we are going to discuss it in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u376	Yeah, that's being discussed extensively. Then Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u377	I'm gonna ask you a quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u378	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u379	The Secretary of State can answer that later if it's too difficult. I have already put it in writing, but I have not received an answer. Has the cabinet also realised that it has definitively lost the dividend tax claim on all undistributed profits, i.e. profit reserves, retained profits? That's a percentage of 15 over hundreds of billions. Can you give us further information on this in the near future? 'Cause you lost that tax claim all at once. We are waiting for benefits, for shares to be bought, and for this dividend tax to be abolished, and then you will have a look at it. Have you realized that and would you still like to give an indication of how many hundreds of billions that is? You've lost that claim!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u380	I don't have those numbers one-two-three ready here, but I'll see if I can get back to you in the second term and otherwise when the bill is being processed. That might be the most appropriate time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u381	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u382	Mr Snels stated that the Council of State would have concluded that the measure to abolish the dividend tax was not well substantiated. There's some kind of value judgment in there. The Council of State notes quite clearly on its website that it should ultimately be a political consideration. It is therefore up to the politicians, the legislators, the government and the parliament together to give that judgment. The Council of State doesn't do that. What the Council of State is saying, therefore, is a little more nuanced, I say here, is that in order to give as complete a picture as possible of the consideration made, the Advisory Section of the Council of State advised us to go a little further into the history of where did it come from? (b) to the wider international perspective and effectiveness. On the basis of that recommendation from the Council of State, we have supplemented the explanatory memorandum with a number of passages on this subject. In addition, the cabinet further examined the government's considerations underlying the measure in the wider international context. I see an interruption coming up, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u383	But were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u384	Well, with this particular point about the Council of State, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u385	Mr Snels asks a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u386	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. Well, that's pretty disappointing, isn't it? The Secretary of State has always said over the past year: wait for the bill and the explanatory statement, because then you will hear our storyline. I've taken a look at it now. That explanatory statement is about five. Our recovery law provides a more detailed explanation of why we should maintain that dividend tax than is explained in the explanatory statement why you want to abolish it. If this, which I have before me here, is the addition to what the Council of State wrote, then the original explanatory statement was a side or two. You know, that's why I keep asking for Article 3.1 Compliance Act: objectives, efficiency, effectiveness. I don't find it in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u387	The strength of argumentation is not always in the amount of pages needed for that. We have decided to support the measure in this way. There's a storyline in there, and you know it. If you had written it down longer or if you had wanted to add more arguments to abolish it, it might have been nice. But you didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u388	No, but there have been a lot of arguments in the past year. What does this actually mean for the capital markets? A lot of scientific studies have been written about that. It would have been interesting to check that out. Headquarters, how important are they to our economy? How does it work? It just says they're important. How does this dividend tax work on attracting headquarters? It just says it's important, but not how it works. That's exactly my problem. Effectiveness, efficiency; ultimately, there is no argument as to why this is necessary. If it's a political judgment, I get it. That's why this is so frustrating. We do not come to a rational discussion because it is ultimately a political judgement: the dividend tax must be removed. Well, that's the end of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u389	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u390	Yeah, that last one's true, of course. In the end, it is also a political judgment, and that is how it is. At the same time, however, there is also support for a legislative proposal. Why are you doing it? We have stated this once again in the explanatory statement. But it is also incredibly complicated to isolate one measure from a package of 60 measures. I am also saying this a little along the lines of the answer to Mrs Leijten's question. It is incredibly complicated to isolate that one measure and to say what the effect of that one measure is. We are not just opting for the abolition of the dividend tax, but we are doing much more. We're lowering the Vpb. You also asked, "How come you're in the race to the bottom?" I say: well, we're not there yet, because we're above the European average. But that too is only part of the story, because we also limit the interest deduction. We limit the loss relief and there is the minimum capital scheme. There are therefore many basic measures which also affect the choice of a company to establish itself here or not. People are looking for some sort of isolated truth all the time and for what I called the "killing argument": well, now that I see this, I am completely convinced. I already know I'm not gonna convince you with that, even if I write it down longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u391	As far as the substantive basis is concerned, we are not getting any further, so I have a question that is more about political support. How does this Secretary of State view this bill, which includes tax avoidance measures, by getting both Chambers? Mrs van Geest of the CPB said yesterday about these tax avoidance measures: this is actually too little. The SGP also sent a clear signal yesterday that there is a great deal of doubt there. How does the Secretary of State intend to get such a thinly-substantiated bill by the Chambers with 76 seats here and 38 seats in the First Chamber, with the elections to the First Chamber coming up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u392	I don't have a glass ball. How do I think I'm gonna do that? By indicating why I think it is a good bill, why I think this is helping the Netherlands, why I think this is an important part of creating a climate where we have a lot of jobs, a lot of companies and therefore a lot of tax revenue. With that, I expect to be able to convince this Chamber and the First Chamber. That is also what I am doing again today and what I will certainly do again at the time of the Tax Plan in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u393	That is a very hopeful but not really a real approach, I think. I would like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to the fact that the tax system is always parliamentaryly sensitive. If he wants a little support in both chambers, then it makes sense to listen to the arguments that come from different sides. If the cabinet does so, especially on this point, it can expect much more support for its fiscal policy than is now foreseen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u394	The suggestion that we should not listen is in any case the other way. The arguments we have given are often said 'we do not know' or 'we do not see'. That remains a bit of a discussion which I do not like either of us, because we cannot prove whether it is true or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u395	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u396	We say that, in the end, we see the importance of the measure more than you do, apparently. I can't do more than my best to tell our storyline in both chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u397	A different question from the questions that have been asked so far about dividend taxation, Mr. Van Raan? Yeah? Well, I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u398	Well, here it comes, Mr. Chairman. We have now entered the political domain with regard to the decision-making on dividend taxation. Does the Secretary of State also endorse the Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy's adage, namely: these are my plans, which I think are good and I support, but I am always open to more brilliant plans? Does the Secretary of State agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u399	I think that is an incredibly important and good credo, even when you talk about policy and not just about this measure. You shouldn't stop when you see the first finish, because maybe the real finish is much later. We are well aware of that. At the same time, we have made a choice here in the end; that is called coalition policy. We believe in this. Of course, we are listening now and there will be arguments that affect us, but so far we have not taken them off the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u400	Then I conclude that the Secretary of State is indeed in favour of this and that, should there be more brilliant plans for the abolition of the dividend tax, there is room to listen to it. Am I hearing that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u401	There's always room to listen, always, on all parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u402	Brilliant question, Mr. Van Raan!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u403	Mr. Chairman. I would like to move on to a subject which I do not think was fully included in the debate with the Minister, namely the advice of the Council of State on package composition. I will not repeat everything, but I will show you how we look at it. This year we have actually done this no different than in the years before, with one important difference. We have come up with seven separate legislative proposals precisely because of the Hoekstra motion and our explicit desire not to link parts that have no substance or budgetary consistency. This is clearly intended to give room to the Chamber, but at the same time some parts of a law are, of course, linked in substance. On the one hand, in making the Netherlands' locational environment attractive and at the same time covering those measures, we have therefore the Vpb reduction, the abolition of the dividend tax and the broadening of the base. That's one part. But at the same time, there is another equally important connection. If we abolish the dividend tax and at the same time set up a new alternative dividend tax, namely a withholding tax on dividends to low-taxed countries, i.e. tax havens, then of course they also have a coherence. You get rid of one and you throw the other in, if you're okay. This is also important in terms of substance. It is precisely for this reason, as the Minister has just said, our own rules and the advice of the Council of State, that we have decided to bring this to the Chamber. There's one thing I really want to take away. For a long time I have been a legislator myself, including in the Ministry of Finance. If one thing is taken seriously by the Ministry, it is the advice of the Council of State. So I contradict any suggestion, perhaps not intended, that not taking advice means not taking it seriously. I really want to have said that here, because we take this very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u404	I want to see if there are any questions concerning the locational climate. I would suggest that you answer them all now before I go to Mr Van Rooijen and perhaps Mrs Leijten; very perhaps.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u405	Maybe the 30% rule. I had it in the block of locational climate. Much has been said about it and a number of questions have also been asked about it. Mr Mulder asked at all in the beginning how honest it really was. He said that, as far as he is concerned, the scheme could be abolished immediately. There were also people in the Chamber who wanted to go the other way. Anyway, let me start my answer with where we are. Only workers with specific expertise that is scarce in the Netherlands can claim the 30% scheme. We therefore need these workers in the Netherlands. The assessment of the 30% scheme also showed that this 30% scheme is important for the Dutch locational environment. The 30% scheme is an administratively simple scheme to cover additional costs incurred by foreign workers for their employment in the Netherlands. It also follows from the evaluation carried out that the level of the flat rate is appropriate to the actual costs incurred by these people and that, not insignificantly, the scheme was quite effective, but that a reduction in the duration of eight to five years, as proposed by the Cabinet, would increase efficiency. After all, it could be said that these temporary costs may be less after a number of years. Suppose people want to settle permanently in the Netherlands, and I am now looking in the direction of Mr Mulder. If you settle in the Netherlands for a long time and are just a resident here, you will also simply pay the normal Dutch rate. That is why we have chosen to improve the efficiency of the scheme. Mr Stoffer also had questions. He said: if you do so, why did you not make a wider transitional arrangement? Or: why not, for example, limit the wage bill to €100,000? That's kind of the other way, actually. The principle argument is that it is known that tax legislation... Let me put it this way: anyone who has come to the Netherlands in the hope of qualifying for the 30% scheme can use it for at least five years, even now. Everyone also knew that tax legislation can change every day or every time we bring a tax plan to the Chamber. So the idea that they had some kind of right doesn't add up. We can also reduce a tax rate. Most people wouldn't mind if the rate was lowered. It has been said: during the game you change the rules. But we always do. When it comes to legislation, you always do that. These people had hoped for a transitional arrangement. Well, you can, technically. Only that is very expensive and that is why we have not chosen it. Mr President, as far as I am concerned, these were the parts of this block. But I can see interruptions coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u406	Did you answer all the questions on this section?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u407	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u408	Okay. Then I'm going to see Mr. Edgar Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u409	Two very simple questions, first of all: what specific skills or knowledge should someone have?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u410	That depends on the profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u411	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u412	You've convinced one person, at least that's one. But of course, that's a strange reason. In practice, and that's why I'm going into it, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u413	Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u414	... it means that anyone who earns more than €37,000 a year is shaved under that category and that is, of course, weird. That is why it has been examined and it is said that it is not effective and should therefore be abolished. Apart from that, why I asked him if he was honest, had something to do with the gentleman who could write $45 million net at once. There was the question: tell me, how honest do you think that is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u415	I can never go into individual cases, not even in this case. We will all feel that this is a wide-ranging arrangement, but I really cannot go into that and I do not want to go into that either. I would like to comment on the first: is it true that everyone qualifies for this and, if so, that the scheme is not effective? But that has not been the conclusion of the evaluation committee, nor, in my view, has it been the conclusion of an earlier report by the Court of Auditors. It says: if the objective is to help the location climate to make the Netherlands more attractive to this type of activity, then the scheme is effective, only it takes too long. That is exactly what the cabinet has done now. Moreover, we also looked at competitiveness, at the regulations in the countries around us, because we did a little more than the countries around us. We are actually going to sit down on whatever the countries around us are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u416	We're all in agreement. It takes eight years too long, especially for those 225 people who earn an average of EUR 2.5 million per person. They don't need it to get another 30% tax-free, do they? If you make $2.5 million a year, what kind of bullshit is it that you get another bonus? It's just not right. The scheme lasts too long, but eight years and not three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u417	I fully agree with the cabinet's argument that this should eventually be taken to five years. There will be a lot of things around it, but an average person who comes to the Netherlands doesn't know exactly how it all works. If that person starts from eight years, he's gonna think, "That's eight years." That's what that person is committed to, and so on and so forth. Our question is: would it not be very desirable to show a bit of reliability here as well, and for that particular group of people, we have made the proposal to put that at €100,000; so it is not about those people Mr Mulder is talking about talking about a transitional arrangement? In this way you can prevent these people from getting into trouble in those three years, because I do not think that is what we, the Netherlands, should want. So that's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u418	I understand that question very well, but that actually means that anyone who has already qualified for it is still entitled to eight years. That means that if you were in your first year, you'd still have seven years to do that. By the way, a capping on a ton would suddenly be a very strange message, because if you earn more, then you suddenly get nothing. That is actually much harder than the measure we are taking. But what if we did that combination of those measures? That's for all these years, and that means you're dragging your expenses forward eight years, or seven more years, because it's going to take that long. We calculated what that would cost. For example, this costs 115 million in the first year and 90 million in the second year. That series naturally ends at some point, because the number of people is decreasing. That's just a pretty expensive item of expenditure, and it wasn't chosen. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het is niet dat het onmogelijk is.]] It's executable. You could do it. With that limit of €100,000 I would personally have a little more problems, because of course there are also a lot of people who are just above that and who are also doing important work. So all in all, I understand Mr Stoffer's considerations, but it is not the choice of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u419	We look at that differently. I am considering tabling an amendment. Actually, I'm curious about the following. The Secretary of State says that over the limit of €100,000. Could he possibly indicate what he thinks would be a reasonable limit? Because that 2.5 million doesn't seem reasonable at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u420	The most important thing is that this rule is very clear and simple at the moment. So there's not going to be an income test. It is really very complicated if the Tax Administration should build up an income or capital test in all these cases. That's more complex than that. For this reason, I simply prefer to keep the scheme simple, not with a capping limit, but as it is, but shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u421	I come back to the climate of establishment and yet again to the linking of all these proposals. I have two questions about that. Firstly, I do not fully understand the link between a reduction in corporation tax and the abolition of dividend tax. For a dividend tax is a withholding tax on the shareholder and is therefore separate from the issuing company. That is the first point. Can you respond to that? Then there is the second point. Initially, you would introduce this withholding tax for abuse countries in 2023. Of course, it's a nice bycatch. It is very clever that you now know how to link it to this. We're all in favour of that, but that measure has nothing to do with it. It is about the 15% that costs 2 billion and a withholding tax that would actually only come in about four years from now and which is separate from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u422	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u423	The substantive coherence between the reduction of the Vpb of both rates and the abolition of the dividend tax is that both are measures with which we hope to further improve the locational environment. You normally do that in one package, because you can't see one without the other. It's in there. On the other hand, introducing a withholding tax if you already had a dividend tax makes no sense, is my wrong Dutch translation. You wouldn't do that soon. So the logic between those two parts is just a bit hard on that. I honestly don't understand why you're saying...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u424	Finally, on this point. Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u425	I do not understand why you are now saying: because we unfortunately have abuses, I am going to introduce a withholding tax which would not happen for a few years, but I am going to bring it forward now and I am going to put it in the draft law of something else that nobody knew about. We knew you'd come up with something about these abuses, but no one knew you'd come up with this. And now you're sticking them together. I don't understand any of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u426	It happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u427	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u428	Let me now turn to the second part of my answers on tax avoidance and evasion. It is clear that the cabinet wants to tackle international tax avoidance firmly. I sent you an extensive letter on that in February. We have already announced and discussed a large number of measures. Now they are specifically laid down in legislation. I think the most important thing is that we implement a whole series of EU directives to prevent base erosion, to increase transparency and to exchange more information with other tax administrations. Next year there will also be a number of additions to the so-called ATAD 2 proposal, I will try to avoid the technique that is also very important to prevent hybrid mismatch situations. In addition, we are going to introduce the multilateral instrument into our treaty policy. This means that we prefer to exchange as many elements as possible with another tax administration. If that other country also ticks those same elements, we do not need to amend all individual tax treaties, but we can do so at once. This is an important change because it will allow us to know much more quickly about structures and how they are used in another country. Finally, an important element, Mr Van Rooijen, seems to think it is less good, but I really think it is important that we introduce a serious national withholding tax for all dividend flows and later also for interest and royalty flows to countries that have a lower rate than 7%. That makes us stricter than a European list. It really is going to be a Dutch list of countries that have low rates, where there is abuse and where we think dividend flows are meant to lock away at low rates. We will send the proposal on the national withholding tax to your Chamber. To this end, as I have just mentioned, we will inform your Chamber in a letter of how we will proceed with the investigation of SEO. We have agreed in the Second and First Chambers to do a zero measurement in order to measure whether we are successful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u429	One question at this point, Mr. Van Rooijen, because the Tax Plan is in the Chamber. All these points come back comprehensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u430	Mr Snel said that I was perhaps less positive about this proposal, but I think it is a very good proposal. That's just before the historiography.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u431	Okay, that's good to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u432	That's what I like to hear. Mr Snels asked for a response to the article in NRC with an interview with the president of the Planning Bureau. I don't know if it was really a question or if he was curious about that. I can say anything about it. In particular, I see it as supporting the policy we are doing, namely making us stricter on dividend flows. She thought it might not be resolved overnight. I agree with her. We have not found the miracle cure or the miracle ointment at once, but I really think that if we have a dividend tax rate of 22,25% on all flows to countries with a lower rate than 7%, we cannot say that this is not going to help. Mr. Chairman. That was the block on combating tax avoidance and evasion. Then the block of lower labour costs and the shift in it. I would just like to make it very clear that what we want is that the Dutch are going to feel the positive effects of economic growth in their pockets and that we are therefore reducing the burden on labour. The largest is, of course, the social flat tax, which provides a few billion in relief. The general tax rebates are going up. And indeed, the VAT goes up at the same time. This is an effect with which the wallets become thicker and the wallets become slightly less thick depending on consumption. On balance, there is an average of €500 left for a family in the Netherlands. Then I won't go into all the purchasing power cards. This is an average family and does not apply individually. For this, I would like to refer people to our Princess Day tool, in which each individual taxpayer can look at what the different measures mean to him. Mr Snels asked what the aim of the proposed increase in the reduced rate was. That's actually starting the world from behind. The aim is therefore to reduce the burden on labour in the Netherlands. We hope and think that this will generate a labour supply effect. On the other hand, we finance this through consumption. This has been advocated by the OECD and the IMF for years. It's an increase in prosperity. Moreover, the IMF and the OECD are even in favour of standardising VAT rates. There is no other way that this should raise a low VAT rate. Or the general rate would go down very fast, but that's priceless. I was a little surprised, because I always had the idea that GroenLinks was also in favour of standardising the tariff when discussing all the proposals on this subject. To tell you why we're doing a VAT increase: if you're going in steps there, you can't help but do that. Again, the tax shift has positive economic effects and is less disruptive, so that the tax system becomes more solid. Those are things that make me really happy, so I'm glad we can do this shift from direct to indirect. On balance, this has a positive effect on employment, and that is one of the objectives of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u433	Have you dealt with all the relevant questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u434	I could make one more point about VAT. Is it true that a larger proportion of the income is at the low VAT rate? Is it income-dependent? Mrs Leijten asked for this and Mr Snels spoke about the compositional effect. So it's not. It is true that the composition of low rates varies between low and high incomes. One buys more products that are at 6% and the higher incomes will eat out more or visit museums or art with 6% on them. Mr Snels also asked whether there were more possibilities for regulating these high incomes to make adjustments. That is true and that is, in general, true. Higher incomes always have more options to do things. But when it comes to the suggestion that low incomes are hit harder by this measure than high incomes, the answer is no. We do not yet know the doctoral research Mrs Leijten referred to. The only thing we know about it is that it was the general rate and not the reduced rate. That composition is very different and therefore does not apply to the intention that we now have. There were also all kinds of assumptions, such as that it was cost-neutral on balance, while we are reducing charges, so that is also different in their plan. We will look even deeper at that PhD research, but to make that one-two-three apply to that reduced VAT rate was a step too far as we are concerned. Finally, I would like to do one more, because that was achieved during the political deliberations. That was a commitment from the Prime Minister to Mr Krol. It was about the border effects of that same VAT increase. ITEM has been investigating this. It has been found that it is very difficult to make a good assessment of the border effects of the measure. The study firm's conclusion is that the increase is unlikely to have an excessive impact on consumers' cross-border spending behaviour. And why not? This is because of the existing price differences on both sides of the border, but even more important: the often large price differences within the Netherlands. If you're really looking for something cheaper, or rather more expensive, then you probably choose another supermarket and you don't cross the border. This applies less to products that are very durable and more to products that are short-lived. For short-lived products, such as apples, the elasticity is very low, so they expect a lower effect. In Belgium and Germany the price level for food is generally higher than in the Netherlands, even after the increase in the reduced VAT rate, and therefore the investigation also concludes that the border effects are expected to be limited. I just wanted to say that because the Prime Minister said that this is the case before this debate. That is what VAT is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u435	I said that the PhD research shows that indirect taxes lead to wealth inequality and growing health inequalities. That's an indication if you make more indirect taxes instead of direct taxes. Of course, that's what's happening here. That is different from the question that I asked: can we split up into income groups how VAT rates are expressed in percentage terms, just as we know from the care premium that it is 25% in mode and only 14% in three modes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u436	I think it's been investigated before, as I just said. Total expenditure on the reduced VAT rate has been looked at. In my memory, but I dare not say that with certainty, but I could do so in the second term, the percentage of reduced VAT rate use was even slightly higher among the higher income groups than with the lower ones, especially because of the more expensive eating out, because that is a bit harder, but you can only measure that. You don't know how much someone has spent you or me, or someone who has a lower income than we have in the supermarket. In my opinion, this was the last time that some intensive research was carried out in 2013. As much as I would like to say to Mrs Leijten that, at least that did not seem to go that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u437	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u438	They looked at what people are spending and what VAT was. Of course, people who have it a bit wider often go out to dinner or to the theater. But I'm not really interested in the people who have it a little bit wider. It is precisely those people who see their rent rising, that their energy bill is rising and that VAT is also rising. I would like to know the effects of this, because otherwise we will be standing here again next year: how can people lose faith in politics and that purchasing power lags behind these groups again? Wouldn't it be good to look at that anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u439	I get that. Because that is what we have to do in the end. Those are the whole discussions we had before: what does this actually mean for the wallet of someone in the Netherlands? Then we are going to discuss the purchasing power picture in The Hague. No one's gonna recognize themselves in that. At least we have now created a Princess Day tool with which you could fill that out, but the point is, of course, that you have to weigh all these measures: the care premium and the energy tax, but also the income tax reduction, the general tax reduction or the deductions that are changing. It all matters. All these effects you want to capture together. That's what you do integrally in August. We have "with a compass and a ruler".........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u440	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u441	Mr. Chairman. Mr Stoffer asked about the reduction of the rate of deduction in the allowance. Mr Bruins also asked indirectly whether we could not monitor its behavioural effects. In my opinion, there are two different issues here. In the coalition agreement it has been agreed that the Gift Act will remain. That is an important part of the agreements in the coalition agreement. In our recent cabinet responses to the assessment of the donation deduction and the anbi-scheme, it was noted that the purpose of any adjustments to the scheme should be to make it more effective and robust. Together with the charity sector, we are now exploring what is possible. I told the Chamber that I will go into that in detail in the winter letter. I would like to say once again that it is therefore not intended that this exploration should have as its object austerity. That's really not the point. That is also explicitly stated when giving the assignment in this story. It's about making it more robust, it's about preventing abuse. It's not about undressing this arrangement. The government agreement includes the reduction of the rate of deduction of, inter alia, personal deductions and income tax, including the deduction of donations, when the two-sided system is introduced to enable them to be included in income tax. This measure does not adjust these deductions, such as the deductions from donations; this applies only to the rate at which such deductions are made. That is exactly what I think is the idea of a social flat tax: it eliminates all kinds of differences, including the difference in deductions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u442	It's a whole waterfall of words. I understand from this that it is not the intention to reduce the number of donations, or at least the amounts that go to charity. But effectively there will be a hole of over 20 million if there is no behavioral adjustment. Because we don't have a complete flat tax. More than €68,500 where more than half of the gifts come from, you may subtract at a lower rate. We also made some calculations between yesterday and now. I don't think that that of the people who might then be on average net €1,000 are going to go to those charities. I think there really is a hole there. My specific question: if that is the case, then is the cabinet prepared to look at repairing it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u443	No, that would really be a completely wrong assessment of what we are saying here. We're going to have all the deductions in the future. We have a lot of them; we have them for the mortgage interest deduction, but we also subtract them for the gift deduction at the second rate. So 37%. That's less than it is now. At the same time, however, we are increasing people's pockets through the tax rebate and the reduction of taxes. If people decide not to spend it on gifts, then of course the cabinet is not going to say: eh, what annoyance for those gifts, we are going to fill that out. I understand what you're saying: for people, it's a back door. But they get much more: on balance, the effect of lower tax rates is much greater. So for the record, the cabinet certainly doesn't intend to compensate for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u444	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u445	I don't think this is the place to hold all the calculations I've made against the Secretary of State, but I've made some and I really don't think this is gonna work out. I've been getting that signal from the charity sector for the last few hours. So I really intend to table an amendment on this, because this is not going to work out, and this is not what the cabinet put forward in the government agreement and in the warm words afterwards. This is really going to cost the charity sector. I'll stick with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u446	I can't help it. On this point too, however, there has been extensive consultation with the charity sector in determining our cabinet response. Anyway, you stick with it, and that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u447	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u448	Then I come to the block of greening. It is clear that this cabinet is committed to the principle: the polluter pays. After all, it makes more sense to tax something we do not want to pollute, rather than something we do want to do, namely entrepreneurship or work. And by giving taxes a price tag for pollution, consumers are encouraged to take greater account of the social costs of pollution in their choices. There are still two major measures to be taken. We're not gonna take care of it right now, but they're important in the picture. These are the CO minimum price for electricity generation and the flight tax. It was asked for, so hopefully the cabinet will appreciate the proposals for the broad lines of the climate agreement that come from the tables and send them to the Chamber as soon as possible. In a sort of second round, the tables are again in the process of reaching as concrete measures as possible in the negotiations to achieve the 49% reduction target. For this we are already doing a number of things, such as the energy tax. In that context, Mr Snels asked me whether it could not be the case that large consumers pay more. Well, in general terms, the energy tax is paid for around 50% by citizens and about 50% by businesses. Both companies and citizens pay for the measures taken by the government in relation to energy taxation. By the way, the portion from households is channelled back through lower taxes on income. And the part that companies are going to pay extra is being redirected through the lower taxes on profits. So, on balance, we keep it the same, but we leave the polluter and the one who pollutes the most paying for this. Such thoughts will also be addressed in the climate agreement. So we are looking for a mix of tax measures that are as cost-effective as possible, leading to CO reduction. In doing so, we take full account of the division between citizens and businesses. So it is not true that it was a bit of a suggestion from the question 'that we would place these costs mainly on the citizen and not on the company. We are really looking for a balanced relationship, and we believe that everyone who pollutes in the Netherlands has a price to pay for it. Mr. Chairman. I'm making a little bit of a bridge, but I think Mr Slootweg asked about something similar when Mr Snels asked about the risks of climate policy to the lowest incomes. Then Mr Slootweg asked: "Do you not have to take that into account in your tax review for the future, because we know that the whole tax mix is going to change? Look at what kind of cars we're going to drive around here and what kind of energy we're going to use. That's gonna change." That's a fair question, I think. The first part of the question is that of whether there are risks, for example the burden on people who do not have an action perspective. Yeah, there are risks. In the mix of measures, I hope that it will come from the tables later with the help of the cabinet juice................................................................................................................................................................................................. I really agree with both of them that it is an important starting point, which we need to address in the coming period. Then the last topic on this block would be the "slaughter tax," although I hate the name. Anyway, it happens often with taxes that their names are not so beautiful. In any case, I would like to give the following to Mr Van Raan. We had a discussion earlier about the meat tax, as we called it back then. He says: we wanted to tax the meat as such at the time, and that is incredibly difficult in its execution. We also had technical discussions on this once. I really appreciate the fact that at least we're looking for a way now. It is said: okay, we know that meat really pollutes, that it is one of the most polluting ingredients of our diet; can't you do it in another way? A slaughter tax is indeed another way of looking at the beginning of the chain. I think it's a little early to give all the answers. I understand that questions have also been asked about LNV's budget. The answers to the question of feasibility will therefore come. If that question comes again and we know something about it, we will eventually need to know more about the technical part. Then who is liable to tax, what is the basis, et cetera, et cetera? That is what I wanted to say to Mr Van Raan. It's not like I'm embracing it full now, but this is a lot more passable in terms of exploration than the earlier ideas we've heard about it. Mr. Chairman. That's it in this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u449	Mr Snels, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u450	I have two questions, one on the long term and one on the short term. First, my question about the long term. The Council of State also concludes that our tax and surcharge systems run counter to the limits of redistribution. This is important if we are to think about how we are going to compensate for the increasing burden of climate action. How is the Secretary of State going to work on this in the coming period, especially because we know that the ibo surcharges will be introduced, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u451	What exactly is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u452	Very briefly. The current tax system is probably no longer suitable for properly targeting climate compensation, especially at lower incomes. How are we going to do that in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u453	For the longer term, you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u454	I don't have one, two, three answers to that. It's an important issue. We have also discussed this in the past, for example in the context of the car letters. We know the world is changing. We also know that our tax system must change with that. Moreover, we have already agreed in your Chamber that we should explore this again. That is what I am saying in the direction of Mr Slootweg, who asked for it. I think we're going to have another day together where we can also see how the models of the agencies can help us. Mr Omtzigt has asked for this earlier. But it's really an important question. Part of the question will hopefully be answered in the choices we make about the climate agreement, but even then I am convinced that adjustments are still needed. For that, we cannot do it alone, but we really must continue to work on it in Europe. I refer, for example, to the flight tax, but it is even the issue of CO pricing. If we did that in splendid isolation, and the rest would not participate, it would have totally different environmental impacts and also different revenue effects than when we try to align it. So the question is good. But the answer is so long I don't think I should be giving it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u455	I'm trying to provoke a short answer. That is also a bit in line with Mr Slootweg's question. The Secretary of State has undertaken to explore the future of the tax system and to look, among other things, at the surcharge system. That's where an ibo comes in. Now we know that these climate costs can be severe and also disproportionately divided. Can that be included in this kind of reconnaissance? That's actually my very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u456	I understand that question. The answer to that would be: yes, those kinds of elements are important and we can take them with us. But I think your question was broader than just the ibo. The ibo is an important issue. How we deal with surcharges is also an important issue. But this goes much further. Again, that we should continue to explore how to organise our system for a long time and that we should do so together with partners, including in Europe, that is absolutely a truth like a cow. And we're just gonna work on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u457	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u458	Thank you. Then I will not table a motion on this in the second term either. Then I'll settle for that. However, we are back at the beginning of the debate with the Minister and the CPB purchasing power plates that should be corrected for the energy costs, especially in 2019. Because we can see that they are actually more severe at lower incomes. This has something to do with both the cuts in the energy discount and, in fact, the energy tax that is now only in the first disc tariff. Is there room for us to take a closer look when dealing with the Tax Plan with the coalition and with the Secretary of State if there is not a better design for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u459	I get that question. We have asked ourselves this question before. If you're talking about that reduction in the energy tax, if you wouldn't lower it, but give it back in higher rates, that's leveling. That's what you're actually saying. You could do something there. But that measure is so unfocused that you're giving that reduction to everyone, including the people you don't want to help at all. So it's a relatively expensive way to do it. I understand the technique behind the proposal. We have also looked at this, but on balance we had a more targeted purchasing power repair in August. But it's not like this button is in some kind of black box. It is something we can look at, but we must do it efficiently. Especially in purchasing power, targeted measures are often better than general measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u460	Finally, Mr. Quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u461	I doubt whether the way in which the purchasing power repair has now taken place is appropriate. I am therefore looking forward to the answer from the Central Planning Bureau to the question of how many people are going down. That alone could lead us to look again at the greening package and to raise the rates for the larger consumers, so that we can reverse the energy discount for people with lower incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u462	Well, that's got to prove it. For the time being, we are still in favour of the purchasing power picture we created in August, but, of course, we are now closing a better thought. Not off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u463	For the storage of renewable energy, the 50-50 scheme between households and businesses has been agreed. That's actually unfair, because you're not each responsible for 50% of that pollution. Apart from that, if that were the case, how can it be that next year's incomes will get 800 million extra energy costs and companies 500 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u464	To those exact numbers I now have one-two-three no answer, but I would like to get back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u465	Okay, then you'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u466	That is very good, because the Secretary of State argues here that it is absolutely fair and that we should certainly do so in the future. The system is already not fair, but if you were to go through the systematics for households and companies, everyone would be presented with the same bill. But even that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u467	Anyone who claims to have wisdom in the discussion of honesty knows that that is not possible. It's about the trade-offs you make. I'm always talking about fifty-fifty. I cannot at this moment explain why one is 500 million and the other is 800 million. I'm sure there's a good explanation for that, but I have to come back to that in the second term. Then there are a few loose questions left. One of them is about the monument deduction. Mr Stoffer made a number of comments on the cabinet's proposal to replace the monument deduction with a subsidy scheme and called for the tax deduction for the maintenance of monuments to be retained. This intention was discussed with the Minister of OCW on 11 September. Room motions have been tabled and adopted on desired adjustments. I have been informed that your Chamber's standing committee for OCW is still in consultation with the Minister of OCW. If you ask me what the desirable outcome is, I think that is quite clear: this is an important complexity reduction in the implementation of the Tax Administration. The Tax Administration must now look rather improperly at all kinds of implementation aspects for which other people are much more suitable. So I think it is a good idea for another implementing service to take over. Mr Slootweg had a question about reducing the burden on SMEs and the working costs regime. We now have 100 million in the books for reducing the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. It is true that, in close consultation with SMEs and companies, we have wondered what would be best now. We have 100 million, and we can think of that cost-of-work scheme. It's often mentioned with us. There are other ideas. We are trying to do this in conjunction with business itself. Once again, limited adaptation is one of the options that is explicitly on the table. In the short term, we will inform you more about how the burden reduction will be designed for us. Then there's the last few loose questions. I have one more from Mr Stoffer on the current account measure. I will not say all about this, but in fact Mr Stoffer asked which dga's could get into exactly the same trouble. That is an important question, also because a certain image had emerged. It was called "dga tax" in the press, but by now we know it purely: only 5% of dgas qualify as potential victims of this measure. When is your potential affected by this measure? If you decide between now and 2020 to keep your loans to yourself above half a million. Besides, you weren't allowed to count your own housing debt. You don't owe taxes until it's still borrowed more than half a million dollars. There will be no more or less tax on this than would otherwise be paid. It is not a tax-enhancing measure. We have only said, because we know that delays were often delayed, that an entrepreneur who lived a bit wider than his company actually allowed, that we would like to deal with this. We did, but in the end it only affects 5% of all dga's. How many dgas give themselves loans? 90% stays below 500,000. It is therefore only a limited number of dga's. I would add that for the other 95% DGAs, the August decision-making process was good news. In box 2 they would go up to 28.5% and we have given relief to the charges, a little further away from the 100 we just had, to 26.9. So most of the dga's wouldn't have come in as bad news anyway. Then I have a couple of really other questions. The question about non-use of surcharges. Mrs De Vries and Mr Slootweg wanted to know what was going on. Research has recently been carried out by Regioplan. Mr Slootweg asked whether we could perhaps make a smart link with the SVB figures; or that could help. A number of questions have recently been asked by your Chamber about this non-use. You will be given an answer to that very soon. It would have been very nice if I had gotten that done before this debate, but it still needed some coordination and, as is often the case, it would not be possible and I would like to do it carefully. But really very soon you will get the answers to those questions. For all the more precise comments on this story, I would rather refer you to the answers to those questions. They're better. However, I would like to say that it is important and still important for the Tax Administration to actively point out to individual citizens through intermediary organisations the possibilities of these surcharges. There are surcharge service points that can help with surcharges. Finally, not least, the issue of non-use will be explicitly dealt with in the ibo bonus project which has been launched since then, because this is something we really want. We want people who are entitled to a supplement to make use of it, without, of course, taking over the responsibility of these people. In addition, I found Mr Slootweg's suggestion to consider a smart link with the SVB figures "Wouldn't you be able to learn something from that? Actually, it's a good suggestion. I'll ask for these to be included in the ibo bonus project.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u468	I think this block is over. In addition, older people's organisations have also indicated, I understand, that the application is also difficult to do. Perhaps municipalities, together with older people's organisations, can see how this can be done more easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u469	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u470	Especially if, for example, a partner falls away who always did the finances in the past. Is that gonna be involved, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u471	Sure. That is an important point. That is one of the three measures we are actively taking: aid for attacks. We know it's hard. This is true of taxes and surcharges: some people find that difficult. Of course, we have a policy where we can and want a lot of things on the Internet and digitally, but we also know that there is a rather solid group, about 1% to 1.5% of people, who, despite all the possibilities that make it pleasant to communicate with the Tax Administration, really need just a person with whom they can sit at the table, the old-fashioned kitchen table feeling to go over things. I've been there a few times myself. Those people are very grateful to take advantage of that. These points are also required for surcharges. For this purpose, the Tax Administration does so itself, but let intermediaries do so as well. The elderly unions can do that and they are then trained by the Tax Administration to help their people. That is an important point. Tax questions have been asked about the housing market. I didn't put it in a block, but they are set and it's been discussed for a while. Mr Nijboer had the idea that start-ups in the housing market should pay less transfer tax. He thought this might help give starters a home. We fully agree on the need to tackle all kinds of excesses in the housing market. By the way, a fairly good sector agreement has been made, namely Goed Verhuurderschap. The Minister for Foreign Affairs informed the Chamber of this. The idea of applying differentiation within the transfer tax based on who buys makes the transfer tax quite complex. We think it's impossible for the performer to check who exactly is a starter. In addition, given the inelasticity of housing supply, we expect it to lead, above all, to a higher price. I don't think starters enjoy that. Should we, for example, allow investors to pay more transfer tax? We do not think that is such a good idea either. This is likely to lead to price acceleration that investors will then pass on in higher rents. Despite the fact that I find the idea behind it sympathetic, and that we also want to support it, the tax measures that try to fill the starter's wallet better, lead to the contents of that wallet being transferred to the seller, quite apart from the implementation aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u472	Mr Nijboer, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u473	I'd say hold that first part a little bit. I have also discussed this in detail with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and he will be happy to discuss it with you. I come with an amendment which provides an answer to these questions. I'm asking the Cabinet not to serve this directly. There's also something to argue with. You could say that investors are going to charge higher rents. You can also say that it becomes less attractive to invest, giving more starters a home. That is also a sensible reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u474	We should not throw something away here until the decision has been made. So it's new and old shoes. We'll see what comes out. I'll listen to it with love.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u475	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u476	Then the landlord levy, also a bit part of the housing market. Mr Bruins asked what the cabinet thought about the possibility of broadening the basis of the landlord's tax, which could reduce the rate per house. I have interpreted that question a little as Mr Bruins' question about the abolition of the tax-free rate of 50 rental homes or the taking away of all rental homes and not just those below the liberalisation limit. Indeed, as from 1 January, the number of rentals covered by the duty-free base has increased. We do this mainly because of the implementation costs of the Tax Service and of landlords. At the moment, we are not in favour of reversing this. The same is true of the limitation of this tax to housing with a rent below the liberalization limit. This is precisely in line with the area in which the rent regulation and the rent surcharge apply. Those things are specifically targeted on the number of rentals. Not everyone who offers a rental house is included. You really should make it your profession, I'll say. We are trying to focus on the areas in which the rent surcharge and the rent regulation apply. I come to my last block, about the feasibility of our tax system. I will not repeat the discussion that has already been held by the Minister. The mantra of "complex, persistent and bulky" is still very close to the truth. In the coming years we are really still working on the task of modernising the work processes and at the same time ensuring continuity. The IRS can't take a vacation. We have to keep going. I have previously told the Chamber in a confidential briefing a great deal about the ICT systems at the service, which are not quite in order yet. It is really working day and night to get it in order as well as possible. Executableness and enforcement must remain the compass for approximation of tax legislation. I see some of the comments on this as support for this. In other words, the more complex we make the legislation here, the more difficult it is for the Tax Administration to have a simple and effective system of implementation and enforcement. I have also said to my colleagues in the cabinet a number of times that I will often stubbornly say no to an arrangement that may be just possible, but that increases complexity. I would prefer to sit at 95% of an implementing measure, so that it is very feasible and perhaps just a little less targeted, but better fits within the implementation system of the service. For the first time, all the tax measures now in place and coming in the coming months have been subject to a comprehensive and comprehensive review by means of an implementation test. I have already said in your Chamber that I will take these execution tests more seriously than anyone has ever done before, so that we do not again wish to come up with beautiful legislation burdening the Tax Administration with problems. I will continue to be stubborn in this regard too in order to further the simplicity of our legislation. That is why the debate on the future of our tax system is important. Mr Slootweg specifically asked whether, if this is the case, tax revenues would be at risk. There was, of course, a reference to the inheritance and gift tax. We talked about that. Once again, this is primarily a delay in revenue. It is not the case that attacks are no longer imposed. Anyway, of course it was painful for that to happen, especially for the people it happened to. At the moment, I have no evidence that the same sort of thing happens to other tax assets. I say right away that I cannot guarantee that it is not. The situation is still too complex for that. That's really, really not solved enough. There can always be incidents. We are, of course, trying to prevent that, but we cannot guarantee that. He also mentioned the vulnerability surrounding the collection of corporation tax. This was referred to in the 21st half-yearly report of the Tax Administration. That was about corporate tax obligations for public companies. There were questions about the definition of that duty. It was not generally about collecting corporation tax. That's just to put it right, so it's not thought we'd have a more acute problem there than I thought we'd have. Finally, Mr Slootweg also asked about the Quality Insight operation. Mr Snels actually asked for this with the tax review. My aim is indeed to identify a further improvement in the tax system and to prepare the building blocks for a subsequent cabinet. Over the next few months, I'm going to find out what information is needed. At the beginning of 2019, I will inform the Chamber of Progress. I have already announced a number of sections on this subject, such as a study of the marginal pressure, as requested earlier by your Chamber, ibo supplements and the evaluation of the home scheme, which has also been requested. A little bit more about this process can be read in the letter on tax motions and commitments that I sent your Chamber on Princess Day. In short, the selection of topics for the operation Understanding quality is a process that is now in full swing. Through the six-monthly progress report I will continue to inform your Chamber about this, at least in the next part of early 2019. Then there's the final question. I added that. That was a reference by the Minister to the answer to a question by Mr Van Rooijen about a second Secretary of State for Finance or a government Commissioner for the Tax Administration. I would particularly like to say that I feel the sympathy of Mr Van Rooijen's thought very well, his concern for my personal agenda and that it does not get too full. At the same time, I think, despite this sympathy, I must also say that I do not think that the proposal is useful at the end of the day. And why not? It is precisely because it is so very important that policies and implementation are and remain inextricably linked. So what you really don't want is for you to have a political responsibility for the implementation and a political responsibility for the legislation. I think, on the contrary, that those responsible for making its implementation enforceable and enforceable should have the courage to intervene in the legislative process and vice versa. It is precisely for this reason that I think it would be wise to have both legislation and implementation, even though I sometimes have days when I think it would be nice if there were more than 24 hours in a day to solve the problems, to keep them together. I think it would be an unwise choice not to. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u477	Yes. Then Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u478	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I have already said that it is by no means a lack of confidence in both the Minister and, above all, this Secretary of State. I also understand the coherence between legislation and implementation. I'm just asking my question out of concern. I am not asking for guarantees, but can the Secretary of State assure me that he is not only man enough, but is also physically able to put the IRS in order while he is in the Chamber all week for the coming year? I'd say, why don't you take that outstretched hand? My mother said, "Emergency breaks laws." That connection is there. In my day, there was also one Secretary of State for both. These are different times. The Chamber is deeply concerned about the Tax Office and wants it to be put in order. In addition to legislation, this is your top priority. Can you spare enough time to give this priority? And can you reject things? That can't be right now and...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u479	Mr. Van Rooijen, it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u480	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u481	I say again that I appreciate the concern about my physical health and my "enough being a man." I'm not exactly sure how to convince Mr. Van Rooijen that I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u482	We don't want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u483	We don't want to know, no. Too much information. But the most important thing, of course, is I'm not doing this on my own. Of course, this is a lot of work in political responsibility. Once again, I think that Secretary of State now has much more work on the implementation services than Secretary of State may have suffered from a number of Cabinets. And yet it is really an important part of the task that goes hand in hand with legislation. We must ensure that legislation is not too complex. We need to make sure that the legislator takes that execution test seriously. That's what I'm here for. And of course I am also in favour of keeping the Chamber informed of developments. But the real work isn't just done by me, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u484	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u485	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u486	This was the government's first term. I shall suspend the sitting until 8 p.m. Then we'll continue with the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u487	We will continue with the debate on the General Financial Reviews. We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u488	Thank you, Mr President. Just in advance, I just heard there's gonna be a letter about the housing market. I would like to ask whether it is possible to include two adopted PVV-motions. One dealt with interest relief and the other with the maximum fine of three months. I see there's an enthusiastic response. This concerns file number 32013, the motion in part No. 160 and those at No. 161. Yes, there are so many motions from the PVV here! It would be nice if those two were taken. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, on behalf of the PVV, I found that the figures of Mr Hoekstra, of this cabinet, were not correct. About 2017 and 2018 it turned out that the predictions were not correct. Today in this debate, the Minister had to admit that. In 2017, not 90% of the people made progress but, as the Minister admitted, almost half of it declined. For 2018 it is actually from the same sheet a suit. And the promised 1.5% increase in purchasing power for 2019 is not going to happen. A few hours ago, the Central Bureau of Statistics announced that inflation has risen much faster than it has been included in the calculation. If this increase continues since the calculation of €700 yesterday, we know that this is going to happen, there will be nothing left of the increase promised by Mr Hoekstra. Mr. Chairman. It's starting to get a little scary. The citizens of this country have had to pay for the crisis for years. For years, savings have been made and taxes have gone up. And now that things are getting better, now that the sun is shining again, as the government says, and now that we even have a surplus, those same citizens are getting nothing. This minister comes with a Millions note where the money goes to all sides, but not to the ordinary Dutchman. It's incomprehensible and outrageous. This cabinet has nothing to do with the Netherlands and opts for Africa, multinationals and Brussels. The people in the Netherlands deserve better. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Calls on the Government to reverse the VAT increase on messages, to reduce rents by 15% and to freeze the healthcare premium for 2019 and to use the budget surplus to cover this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u489	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u490	Thank you. I think that the PVV group will be very pleased with the remaining minutes for the other budgetary debates. Thank you, Mr. Mulder. I now give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u491	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I won't complete my time either, I guess, because that would be nineteen minutes. Thank you for the answer of the Minister and the Secretary of State. I think we've had a good debate. I think there's still some difference of opinion. On the one hand, I think we live in a very beautiful and prosperous country. I think it is also important that we continue to invest in it and continue to do so in order to achieve it in the future. I believe that the budget that is before us is in line with that. We believe that it is a balanced budget, which, on the one hand, provides EUR 6 billion in burden relief for citizens and, on the other hand, invests in matters that we consider necessary, such as education, care, security and infrastructure. So I think there's a good balance in it. We have just heard a proposal in which the budget surplus is used. We would not be in favour of this as a VVD, because we believe that we should make the budget as healthy as possible in order to absorb shocks in the future. We also see a number of possible threats, distortions. We've talked extensively about the Brexit. It is good that the cabinet is taking a number of steps to prepare, but we do think it is important that we keep our finger on the pulse: what is that going to mean for our budget? The same applies to a number of other developments which I mentioned in my first term. We are talking, for example, about trade wars but also about what is happening in Italy. The Minister himself has already indicated that he came less positively from the Eurogroup/Ecofin. I am pleased that at least the European Commission has indicated that Italy has already benefited enough from the flexibility in the budgetary rules. But the reaction of the Italian Deputy Prime Minister did not give much hope. He said he wouldn't give in a millimeter. I trust that the Minister in Brussels will continue to draw attention to this. Thank you to the Minister when it comes to looking further and thinking ahead about collective burdens and also collective expenditure, for example in the areas of health care and social security. I think we should start thinking in good time about how to curb these costs and how to reduce collective burdens. Then there are a few other points. My colleague, Mr Slootweg, will be tabling another motion on the allowances and the seniors shortly following the investigation that has been carried out. We think it is important that more attention should be paid to making it easier for people to use it in the short term. We didn't create those bonuses for nothing. I would like to make one final point. The Minister has given a planning of the labour market legislation that is coming. We think it is very important for small and medium-sized enterprises. He was very clear about the Labour Market Balance Act. He was less clear about payment of wages in case of illness and the adaptation of the DBA Act for the Zpp'ers. In any case, I would urge the Cabinet to clarify this as soon as possible. These are two important laws for business. We hope that the Minister or the Secretary of State will be able to plan this in the second term. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u492	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I now turn to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u493	I was busy collecting autographs in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u494	It's also part of the Chamberwork, the collection of signatures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u495	Sure. Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the rulers. We had a nice debate that covered a lot of subjects. Of course, this is also part of the General Financial Reviews, which cover the whole of the state budget. I also welcomed the debate on broad prosperity, on climate plans. I will also be tabling a motion on this in a moment, but I am testing support for, and addressing, the climate problem in almost the entire Chamber, as well as looking at what prosperity in a broader sense means to our country. We have also had a serious debate on the sustainability of public finances. We want a more stringent Minister of Finance, but I still believe that the way in which it differs is something in the Chamber. I think it is important that we at least get a look at the sustainability at a certain point in time, especially because it is going to come together on certain dossiers. Mr. Chairman. Then on the expenditure side of the budget. I think it is important to emphasise once again that we really have a problem in the public sector. Those people don't demonstrate for nothing. The workload is incredibly high. I see that the cabinet is also paying attention to this. But look at the difference: compared with the 1.3 billion in the cabinet for wages and workload, we are putting 2 billion, and I do not think that is enough. For me, it is important that we also invest in the public sector for a long-term, multiannual period, so that we do not solve that in the longer term too, because we are not going to solve it all at once, so that teachers, teachers, nurses and police officers can do their job again with pride. Mr. Chairman. Then the load side. I welcome the Minister's commitment to let the CPB take a look at what the memo we received today means for the number of people who will make less progress. I think the cabinet has a short-term problem here. I think that the greening measures they are now in the Tax Plan are disproportionate in the case of low-income people. I hope that we can also look carefully at this in the Tax Plan and that there is a willingness on the part of the coalition and the cabinet to take and consider alternatives as well. We are talking, among other things, about the reduction in the tax rebate. The same is true of my proposals on the locational environment. One of them is to look again at the 30% scheme. Mr Stoffer has already referred to this. When I look at my own election programme and the counter-budget, we completely abolish it, but I have been convinced that there is certainly a problem with a lot of teaching staff, including young researchers, aio's and postdocs at the university. I think it is reasonable to see if we can put a little more effort into finding a solution to that. Then the dividend tax. I have another answer from the Minister in the second term as to whether Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act also applies to tax measures. In any case, I am very curious to see how that discussion went between the guardian of the Compatability Act, the Minister, and the author of the bill abolishing dividend tax. What does the Minister think of the explanatory statement when it comes to objectives, effectiveness and efficiency? Mr. Chairman. I've got two motions in. The first motion is meant to take a step further in the way we deal with the Monitor Brede Prosperity. A motion has already been passed in the Chamber. The Minister has also indicated that he wants to take all kinds of initiatives to give the Monitor Brede Welvaart more place in government policy. I also read the letter from the Minister of EZ on this subject. It's a lot of "we can do this," "we can do that" and "we'll have another look." It's slow. I have therefore put forward a very concrete proposal in my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, at the request of the Chamber, the Cabinet mentioned a number of options for integrating the Broad Prosperity Monitor into the decision-making process;]] [[noting that the Council of State recommends that broad prosperity should also be used forwards and that the Millions Note should be used for this purpose;]] [[Whereas it is a search to find the right method for this;]] [[calls on the government to make a first start in the next Millions Note on how the envisaged policy will influence the indicators of the previous Broad Prosperity Monitor and choose a suitable theme for that purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Snels, Mr Van Raan, Mr Nijboer and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u496	So I'm giving the cabinet room to say: take a theme out and look at these indicators, how can you put it from one year to the next, looking backwards and looking forward in the Millions note? I think the Millions note is indeed the place for that. The Minister will, of course, have to look with other ministers in other policy areas at how this could be handled, but then we will be a step further. I was talking to the Secretary of State about the dividend tax. We now know that the attorney general is coming up with an opinion on all these pending cases. This also has an impact on the government's support for the abolition of the dividend tax, on its sustainability in the longer term. I have the next motion on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Council of State has concluded that the abolition of the dividend tax is not well substantiated;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Advocate General on pending cases concerning dividend taxation,]] [[Whereas this opinion has an impact on the debate on the legal sustainability of dividend taxation;]] [[invites the Government to ask the Van State Council for an explicit opinion on the legal sustainability of the dividend tax and the government's intention to abolish it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Snels and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u497	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u498	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Snels. No, he just showed up. I give the floor to Mr Slootweg on behalf of the CDA. Yeah, I gotta take a look, quick, faster, quick. I call Mr Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u499	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering the questions and exchanging views. I would also like to thank my fellow Members, because I think it has gone on in a very orderly way. Mr Azarkan referred to this as well. Well, that's good to see, too. I started to say in the first term that we live in times when you notice that people in this country are concerned and uncertain. You do not take away that uncertainty, even after a first Millions note that has for the first time reached the stamp of this cabinet. We believe that this is about trying to show that we have a strong economy and how we keep these foundations strong. This means more than just looking at the economic aspect, but also how to do it by investing in our society. Then I think that with this Millions note we have some wonderful starting points. The burden can be reduced for families and businesses. Investment is being made in the public sector, particularly in health, education and safety. It is also possible to pay off a piece of EMU debt. That also has to do with the fact that we are not in the period we were ten years ago. On top of these matters, which were more or less the focus of this cabinet, we have also managed to cope with gas extraction. I think that's quite an achievement. On the other hand there are also two large dark clouds above us. Maybe there are more, but I'd like to mention two. The first is the Brexit, of which I think we know less and less where it is going. The situation also complicates in the euro area by what Italy is going to do. Let us hope that, in that regard, we shall be able to say what we have to say. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. After all, I also think it would be better for Italy, if they were to have a strong economy, to carry out the necessary reforms. Then you actually have such a strong economy to do the future tasks. As far as my group is concerned, it is really about the challenge linked to the climate. The climate itself is already a huge challenge. But it is also, as Mr Snels said, about how to get the support of society so that we can do the job well. I therefore expect that in the coming period, especially when the climate tables come up with results, we will see that we have a basis for filling that out. After all, we can only do it together. Mr. Chairman. That is why I was very pleased that at least at the Green Bonds I received the commitment from what it is in. It is still very difficult for me to imagine why countries such as France and Belgium, which have a much higher EMU debt than the Netherlands, see the possibility of doing so. This may be in the investments that are happening from the Empire, but I would like to know more details. On the other hand, I also find it regrettable that the funds raised collectively, for example in the pension fund ABP, have to take advantage of a climate forecast that Belgium and France have, but we cannot use it for the Netherlands itself. Apart from looking at a strong economy and the future, it is also very important for us, if you want to regain confidence, that rules become clearer and simpler. Hence our commitment: can't you do something about the rent and care allowance for the elderly; can't you focus it so that the people who are eligible for it, who are actually going to receive it? That is why I will table the next motion with Aukje de Vries. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that one in six elderly persons, while eligible, does not apply for a rent allowance;]] [[noting that one in ten of the elderly, who are entitled to it, does not apply for a care allowance;]] [[Whereas these groups should also be aware of the fact that the economy is growing;]] [[calls on the Government to develop as soon as possible a proposal to increase awareness of these allowances among older people through a public campaign;]] [[calls on the Government to work together with municipalities and elderly organisations to simplify the application,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Slootweg and Mr Aukje de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u500	And then I would like to thank you for leading this meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u501	Thank you, Mr. Slootweg. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u502	Mr. Chairman. It's ten years after the crisis. A lot of calculations are being made about what this crisis has cost us in the end. There are even economists who say that that has been more than a gross world income, more than a world war. 50 to 60 billion has been lost from the public sector in the Netherlands. And then you can have the discussion: keep your hand on the cut and relieve the sovereign debt, spend everything, or is there a middle way in and what do you choose? The SP says you have to fix it. You need to fix what's broken. You have to make people feel that they matter, and they don't get that with this government. This government is okay with giving 2 billion a year to foreign shareholders and treasuries. She doesn't even know where it ends up. She doesn't have any guarantee that the $2 billion will pay off. We have no idea whether we can control that in the future and at the same time stay but the mantra: we earn the money abroad. The pride of the dividend tax that does not exist, because it is messed up in a law. I'm really wondering why the hell that's necessary. The investments in the police aren't even getting what Rutte I and II have beaten away. There are fewer cops on the street and there are still desks being closed. Classes in primary education are up to 40 children or more. There are long waiting lists in mental health care. Even young people with suicidal tendencies are waiting for a year. Climate justice is a long way to go. When it comes to the Groninger gas, next year there will be even more revenue than the starting note. And yet this government keeps saying that Groningen would cost us money. The account of the crisis has been paid by the ordinary people, who had no debt to the crisis. They have had all the burdens on their plate from which they could not escape. They couldn't take their shit and go. Actually, the cabinet goes all the way down that road. The simple question: will we ensure that a new crisis is not solved in the same way, is not even answered by the Minister. I am not such a person to beg for promises, but I find it really unworthy of a finance minister not to go into them, that he doesn't worry about them; just ignore them, then you hope they won't be asked anymore. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting my two motions. I could have done more, because so many things have not been discussed, but we will come back to that. I am very sorry about one point, and that is the increase in VAT. Say there's two recent reports on the desk that aren't there. The latest report is from 2014 and is an exploration for another VAT system of the Central Planning Bureau, which is based on the figures from 2004 which are last well-analysable. So that was 14 years ago. I just think it should be known how this goes down on incomes. So no more and no less than an investigation into that. I can't imagine the rulers being against it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the impact of VAT on daily messages was last examined by the CBS in 2004 and by the CPB in 2014;]] [[noting that the CPB's investigation clearly shows that VAT pressure is decreasing as income increases;]] [[considers that there is insufficient knowledge of the impact of the increase in VAT on different income groups;]] [[calls on the Government to allow this calculation to be made, if possible for the consideration of the Social Affairs and Employment budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten, Mr Snels, Mr Nijboer, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Raan and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u503	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the directors for their reply. During the answer I realized that I had misdistributed my questions. In the first term I indicated that, when I look at the Dutch economy, but also at the broad prosperity, I see many signals on the green. I did, however, call for attention to be paid to the distribution and, in particular, to the short-term risks. We agreed to keep our finger on the wrist at the Brexit. I'd like to see how the cabinet is going to shape that. I therefore called on the cabinet to consider new reforms and incentives. There is always thought, but I call for that reflection to be stepped up and for it to be given more serious form. I have to say, I thought the reactions were a little hesitant. On the stimuli I even found them very reluctant. I hope the study work will yield a little more. I also think it would be a good idea for the Chamber itself to think a little bit more about that. I would like to say to the Minister: I was not the one who brought up Amundsen, the champion of preparation. The second issue I raised in the first term is stability. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment to consult on municipal finances. I look forward to those outcomes. But also about the student estimates he has been in conversation with his colleagues for some time. I think it is good for the stability of that budget, and therefore also for the implementation of the state budget, if we find a solution to this, which means that we do not always have multiannual targets from different student estimates. The minister said in the first term that he was going to try to send that to the Chamber before Christmas. That seems to me to be a good thing, because at least we should be able to have this discussion back in the Spring paper. So I'd like to hear more about that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u504	Thank you, Mr. Faster. I now turn to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u505	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This cabinet is in danger of becoming the cabinet of empty promises. A terrible investment package has already been promised this year, but 2.9 billion has not been spent. There is no willingness to do so in August, while teachers are on strike, while public sector events are taking place, not even to the opposition. Mr President, I have tabled my first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the proposal from the Commission of the European Communities for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations;]] [[having regard to the fact that the year has not yet ended and that budgetary expenditure pursues important public objectives;]] [[Whereas, moreover, targets have been entered for the coming years in education, for example;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to make the best possible use of the failures under the frameworks for the intended purposes and to use the remaining failures to cope with setbacks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Snels, Mr Leijten, Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u506	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also asked this cabinet whether the promises are being made by next year to spend more than 21% more on Defence and almost 11% on Infrastructure. How real are those promises? Especially given the shortage of people. I didn't get an answer. I don't think those promises will be real. I ask the Cabinet to reply to that. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the second motion. I have three more motions that I would like to share with my colleagues. The cabinet started with a story about a stretched hand. The King spoke in the Throne speech as the last words that the Netherlands was so strong by pulling up together, and that the parliament should do the same. I have to say that I haven't really noticed any of that. The Minister acknowledges with me that if you really want to build buffers, you should, above all, avoid the tax incentives. He recognizes this analysis, but he continues with the crown jewel: abolish the dividend tax. And he will continue to lower the Vpb tax by 3 billion. Mr. Chairman. It's three motions, and that's very exceptional. In any case, I don't often file motions, but I've also signed them on my own. That also has a certain symbolism. I asked all the coalition parties to co-sign them in order to achieve something together. And I also expect the cabinet, if they know they have 76 seats here and 38 in the First Chamber, to think about the handouts they can do to the opposition parties themselves. And maybe plans will get better, too. I have experienced it myself over the past few years: plans just get better. I would like to praise D66 for that in the field of education. It just gets better. And really, it's zero on the reekest. They're running out of time and they're dripping everything. There's nothing at all, nothing at all! Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, But we can do that until Tuesday! After all, I am an optimistic man. So I still have plenty of time to find co-signators. This motion is aimed in particular at D66, as this is in line with the Pechtold motion of 2017. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that education is facing an additional mission in the coming years from 163.5 million in 2019 to 156.2 million in 2022;]] [[considers that this task should not be at the expense of the quality of children's education or opportunities;]] [[calls on the Government not to allow the assignment to be made at the expense of the funding of schools and teachers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u507	Mr. Chairman. The next motion is an investigative motion that should go to everyone's heart. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas start-ups are increasingly experiencing difficulties in buying a home;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to make proposals with possible measures to support start-ups in buying a house, and to inform the House about this for the budgetary treatment of Living,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u508	Mr. Chairman. The final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the reduction in the levy in the landlord's levy was discontinued as of July this year because it had been transferred;]] [[Whereas it is precisely in the area of housing that additional investment is needed;]] [[Whereas in the General Reviews the Asscher c.s. motion was adopted which calls on the government to consider how to maintain investment in affordable rental houses and shrinking areas;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to use part of this for the re-opening of the tax reduction in the landlord's tax, if there is still a failure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u509	Mr. Chairman. Prince's Day is an important moment for me. And I also really value the King's words when we're in that Knight's Room. And if he says that the cabinet is keen to get broad parliamentary support, I would say to the cabinet: don't let the King stand on his heels!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u510	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u511	Mr. Chairman. We had a good debate and nice AFB. The directors have been standing for a long time and have responded comprehensively. Thank you for that. It is good that the Minister has promised that we will move forward step by step with integrating the Broad Prosperity Monitor into the budgetary and accountability cycle. A motion by Mr Van Raan was adopted in June which called on the cabinet to further map this. With the Minister's commitment to move forward step by step with this, I am confident that this will work out, but here it is an oral encouragement to make this very concrete. We are taking a nice step towards a social flat tax with the Tax Plan, which we will discuss in detail. It is logical that all deductions should be reduced to the first disc. Now most of the deductions are only interesting to the taxable person in question, but the allowance, which we have also talked about, is not only for the taxpayer but also for the giving behaviour in our country. I therefore think it is important that we keep a close eye on how this delivery behaviour is going to develop in the coming years because of the reduction of donations to the basic rate. Mr. Chairman. As a final point, I pointed out in the first period of time the sometimes large effects of the quantitative expansion of low interest rates and investors looking for returns. I am referring to the impact on the housing market in the larger cities in particular, while a house is there to live in, not to make exorbitant profits. Now the rulers have responded extensively to my various questions, but not in conjunction with each other. Minister Hoekstra is also going to ask his colleague for Wonen to send a letter about, among other things, the buy-to-let phenomenon, for which thanks. However, since I am still concerned about this coherence and the sharpness of that letter, I submit the next motion for a resolution in order to clarify and encourage it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the ECB's quantitative enlargement policy has led to a high level of cheap money, combined with the historically low (and not entirely independent) interest rate, in search of return;]] [[Whereas in some social sectors this appears to be partly due to undesirable effects, such as in the housing market;]] [[calls on the Minister to examine the negative (side) effects of quantitative expansion combined with low interest rates in the various sectors of society, in particular the increased buy-to-let phenomenon in the major cities, to explore their (in) desirability and a possible approach;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Slootweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u512	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister and the Secretary of State for the answers. Let's count the blessings especially for a moment tonight. The VVD now knows about three and a half globes, we have a new path to a sensible fiscal greening measure and we have a listening ear as a more brilliant measure than the abolition of dividend tax can be found in the broad package of measures. And we are talking about broad prosperity in the debate on the Millions Note. Mr. Chairman. I have three points. In our view, the government's response to the Council of State's opinion on the Millions Note could be better. I understand that this is also the reaction to the motion adopted, to which Mr Nijboer referred. But the answer is: the cabinet is willing to consider policies in the Millions Note annually in the future. But that's not enough. And that's not something the Party for Animals invents, that's what the first monitor shows with retroactive effect. It is a rear-view mirror with a restless image. That's point one. Secondly, the billions note, which provides 30,000 billion euros of savings in a 1.5 ̊C world compared to a 2 ̊C world, should give the Netherlands the opportunity to see how this can be done in practice. And point three: thanks to an article in The Correspondent we know that at the CPB 30 people are working full-time on calculating election programs. That takes so much time, according to that article, that they no longer have time to read the professional literature. That's what they say. The Party for Animals therefore considers it a waste of time to pass on plans that will only be carried out in hypothetical parallel universes to the decimal point, while we actually need much harder instruments that look forward to what those policies are doing with the broad prosperity. In our view, these instruments are not yet sufficient. We agree on that. That's a search, too. We haven't figured that out yet. The Minister has indicated that he is prepared to look into this. That's why three encouraging motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in its opinion to the Millions Note, the Council of State noted that the Broad Prosperity Monitor could contribute to the development of new government policies, which aim at more than growth and income;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to develop or instruct it to do so, so that the Broad Prosperity Monitor can be used in the coming millions of notes, in the development of new government policies aimed at more than economic growth and income,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the net revenues from keeping the global temperature increase to 1.5 °C by Stanford University researchers have been estimated at USD 30,000 billion;]] [[asks the cabinet to identify what this means specifically for the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Raan, Mr Snels, Mr Stoffer, Mr Azarkan, Mr Nijboer and Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-60]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u513	Then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that government agreements are always a compromise between at least two political parties;]] [[noting that an electoral programme of a political party with a certain probability will never be transposed as a coalition agreement;]] [[noting that there is both social criticism and criticism by economists on the usability and reliability of purchasing power plates;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the CPB to minimise the allocation of electoral programmes, counter-budgets, other plans and purchasing power figures and to use the resources available to develop the Broad Prosperity Monitor as a policy tool,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u514	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for replying in the first term. In his first term, the Minister did not comment on my detailed speech on the letter from the President of De Nederlandsche Bank on the relationship between the interest rate and the degree of certainty. Like many of you, I have read Mr Knot's letter with interest. I must say that after reading this letter, my confusion has only increased further. If I understand correctly, we are now surprised by De Nederlandsche Bank with a whole new actuarial doctrine in the field of pensions. According to De Nederlandsche Bank, any nominal commitment is suddenly unconditional and must therefore be valued at risk-free market interest rates. Whether this succeeds depends on the amount of buffer that is held, at least according to De Nederlandsche Bank. Mr. Chairman. That is, of course, actuarial nonsense. As in the case of debt securities, we know this all too well and you also have firm and soft nominal commitments in the case of pensions. For bond loans, depending on the risk, this is reflected in the interest rate and in pension commitments in the discount rate. It simply needs to go up with a conditional commitment. Every actuary and every accountant knows that. See also the international accounting rules of the IASB, the International Accounting Standards Board. All wanted, strange reasonings to keep coûte que coûte de discount rate but low, based on the desire of unconditional commitments, to make it as difficult as possible for pension funds. An approach that has completely undermined citizens' confidence in our pension system. This approach has made citizens increasingly confident of their pension on paper, but in reality they are getting less and less. They are therefore more and more sure of an increasingly uncertain and therefore lower pension. And then complain about the pension funds, where the pension pots are getting fuller and fuller. I would like to point out to the Minister that Knot's view has the effect that, even in the case of softer claims, calculation rates remain very low, so that the chances of discounts remain very high and there will be no indexation. This has a major impact on the purchasing power of pensioners and on the pension structure of workers. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that on 19 September the President of De Nederlandsche Bank wrote a letter to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment on the rate of calculation of pension contracts, in which the President took a position on the rate of calculation of softer nominal and real claims;]] [[Whereas a position on the calculation rate and buffers has a major impact on all further negotiations on a new pension agreement;]] [[calls on the Government to give its views on the positions of the President of De Nederlandsche Bank on accounting rates and buffers for softer nominal and real claims;]] [[calls on the Government to send this vision to the Chamber well before examining the Social Affairs and Employment budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Leijten and Mr Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u515	Mr. Chairman. The dividend tax dossier is still far from being closed as far as we are concerned. Following the Minister's reply, my group continues to believe that the proposal to abolish the existing 15% dividend tax should be included in an independent legislative proposal. In this connection, I quote the cow senator Hoekstra, three years ago: 'With this performance'....................................................................................................................................................... I have nothing to add to that. I will later, in addition to the amendment I tabled with Mrs Leijten on the abolition of the dividend tax, in order not to abolish it, present a second amendment which includes the proposal to abolish the dividend tax in one of the six other tax laws. The abolition of the dividend tax has been mentioned as a gamble, both by opponents and by Rutte himself, but very little has been said about the collateral left by the cabinet in exchange for the gambling that he thinks we should take. Mrs van Geest immediately made it clear that corporate taxation is more economically disruptive to the locational environment than the dividend tax. But we also know, for example, that housing corporations have long waiting lists and that they will convert an additional cash flow of 2 billion a year into tens of billions of investments in the Netherlands, overdue investments, I might add. Retirement a year earlier is another example. This does not result in investment, but it solves a major social problem with a huge social dividend, and a social dividend is not yet subject to tax in the Netherlands. This is what Mr Azarkan likes, and I thank him for that. Mr. Chairman. What I skipped in my first term is box 3, the capital return tax. In the meantime, it has undoubtedly become a monstrosity. The ordinary citizen cannot see that anymore, but the argument of principle weighs equally heavily. The interest rate on savings is almost nowhere above 0.5%, but people have to count on a fictitious return of almost 6%. That is completely ridiculous and very damaging to tax morals, isn't it? In any case, we believe that there should be separate treatment of savings, because interest is simply not the case at the moment. Mr. Chairman. I have talked about the troika, the pension system, the AOW and the Tax Administration, but it is now time to try to pull something in. 50PLUS has three short motions. We want additional compensation for the VAT increase, a separate regime for savings in box 3 and, in accordance with our election programme, we want to abolish the inheritance and gift tax after 2019. Contrary to the counter-budget of the three left-wing parties, we are not focusing on reversing all the government's fiscal measures. That would not be a sensible choice, but 50PLUS believes that additional compensation for the VAT increase is absolutely necessary, and that is why I will table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government intends to implement major fiscal reforms in 2019;]] [[Whereas, according to the policy developments of the CPB next year, on balance, there is a charge increase of EUR 800 million for households;]] [[Whereas purchasing power development has been disappointing for several years;]] [[Whereas increases in taxes in fiscal reform years are extremely unusual, as there is no "lube oil" on balance;]] [[calls on the government to extend the compensation for the VAT increase generically by at least EUR 800 million in 2019, so that there is no longer an increase in charges for households,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u516	Mr. Chairman. Finally, the following motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the tax on savings in box 3 is disproportionate to the reality of extremely low savings rates;]] [[calls on the government in Box 3 to introduce a separate savings regime, taking into account the reality of the extremely low savings rate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make the necessary preparations to abolish the donation and inheritance tax after 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-65]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u517	Mr. Chairman. These are my first General Financial Reviews. I have to say, it's been two long days, not just for me, but for everyone. I think this is certainly true of the rulers and those who support them. Then you have to hold back all day, while every time you get beat up and there's a little ugly going on. So my compliments for that and also for the answer. Those two long days also gave me the opportunity to go through the gift we received from you after the General Political Reviews. I've listened very carefully. I had a question yesterday about the foundation that lies under public finances. What's really bothering me? What doesn't feel so good? That's about the last page of the book. You should always read it first. That's the case with an exciting book, because you know how it goes. The debt's falling a little bit, but the interest rate's falling too. I think that has come up all over the answer today. There's a concern for us. We will really have to take a step in the coming years. I must honestly say that I have noticed that this also concerns the Minister. I am confident that this will look much better next year. It's a wish. As it is now, it will be for the coming year. We're not gonna change that anymore tonight. Then there are a few practical points. The Secretary of State has given a good answer to the question about the 30% regime. I am not going to go into the substance of the matter now. I agree with what Mr Snels has said in this connection. The question about the dga tax has come up with a good and sound answer. However, there is one more thing that gnaws a little bit. Because I'm a huge fan of entrepreneurs. The dga's are the people who had to take risks in the time when they took them. That's a bit of a sign for those people, too. I know a lot of them. Sometimes they operate just within the limits of what they can and can't do. When you cross the border, of course, you must be punished. But they're just looking up the edge. I have a question about those people, the 5% who might have a problem after all. Couldn't the tax authorities check with them to see if there's any customization, so that they're not driven to despair? It is the people who make the Netherlands. That's an urgent request. Finally, the gifts. We didn't agree on that. At the time, I thought I'd put in a motion on that. I do this together with Mr Baudet, who promised me that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas charities have a very important social interest and therefore deserve full support;]] [[noting that the tax plan limits the deduction of donations;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the expected impact on the number of gifts given and to share this analysis with the Chamber for the treatment of the Tax Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u518	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u519	I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan. She's gonna behave properly, because his daughter's watching.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u520	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also begin by thanking the rulers for their answers. It was not always the way we would like to see it from the DENK Group, but that is the way it is in a democracy. First, a brief word about getting the housekeeping book in order. Mr Snels talked about the fact that GroenLinks had the best sustainability balance in the bill. That's not true. That was minus 0.3% and DENK had minus 0.2%. I urge the cabinet to be sensible and to keep budgeting a little tighter. Then we have something left for the years that are going badly and we do not have to make huge cuts, as we did in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015. Mr. Chairman. I have spoken my first term of office about the share that companies pay for investment in society. I have noted that that has dropped and for that reason I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the share of companies paying to total tax revenues has fallen from 23% to 13% over the past 15 years, and that the share of households paying has increased from 70% to 83%;]] [[noting that this is in line with an ever-increasing employment rate from 80% to 73% over the last 20 years;]] [[noting that contributions from households and business are growing ever further apart;]] [[calls on the government to reduce the distortion of burden by ensuring that the burden between companies and households will be more balanced in subsequent budgets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u521	Then there is the 1.5% increase in purchasing power. That is what all the groups in the Chamber have been paying attention to. I mentioned that motion and I made a promise. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has envisaged a median purchasing power improvement of 1.5%;]] [[noting that such forecasts are rare and also depend on developments which the government has no influence on, such as wage developments and inflation;]] [[whereas the 1.5% is therefore extremely uncertain, but is presented as an improvement in purchasing power which is very likely to occur;]] [[Considering that promise is guilty, and that the government must take action;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider, at the end of 2019, whether the 1.5% improvement in purchasing power has actually been achieved;]] [[calls on the government also to fix any purchasing power shortage in the next budget so that the government's purchasing power forecast will gain credibility,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u522	We can never spend enough time on the dividend tax, so I'm gonna end up with that. I have an honest confession to make. I heard Mr Dijkhoff say that it is a gamble, I heard Mr Segers say something about it being a melon to swallow and Mr Buma said that he thought it was very important for the climate of establishment. What D66 said changes every day, so I don't remember that very well. You know what disappoints me so much? I'm gonna go home a little bit with a sad feeling. We have a minister and a secretary of state who has to supervise the treasury and I was very disappointed that they actually came up with the same thread, namely that it is generally about the locational climate. I can't really see what this is going to do and to what extent it's really going to contribute. It is unaccountable and with that, as Mr. Snels said, goals, effectiveness and efficiency are simply not to be tested. That is an extraordinary pity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u523	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'll take a look at the Minister and the Secretary of State, see if they need a brief suspension to discuss the motions. Five minutes, I hear. Then I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u524	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u525	Thank you, Mr President. I'll answer a few more questions before I go into the various motions. There was one more thing left behind from the first term. That was about the ceiling breach. I am not always trying to save the cabbage and the goat, but in a way I was right here as well as Mr Nijboer and Mr Sneller. It's like this. I have still consulted the two high priests in the Ministry on this particular issue. Mr Nijboer is right in saying that the amount, i.e. the -2.9 billion, is now in full favour of the balance. And Mr Sneller is right in saying that this is indeed a 100% year-end margin. That means that if Defence wanted and if IenW wanted, we could claim 100% of that amount next year. What is the consequence of that? One can bet that money. That could, by the way, confront me with a problem under the expenditure framework next year. But that's how it is. So Mr Nijboer is right that it is indeed the full pound of the -2.9 billion. And Mr Sneller is right that the money is not gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u526	Mr Nijboer has a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u527	Mr Nijboer was actually right twice, because I never denied that it was going to DOD. This is exactly what's coming, Mr. Chairman. What did I say? I have said that if that 2.9 billion had been used, or flattened, as you can call it in series, which is no longer being used in this cabinet period, then the money would have been spent on public debt, which could have been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u528	No. We have had the bigger part of the debate. There was a misunderstanding, also because I was looking in my papers and heard the rest of Mr Sneller's comment, namely about the ING and the fine. Mr Nijboer then returned to the interrupting microphone and said: no, but it really is the full -2.9 billion. Then I made a pass at the place and said: let me specify that. That also gave me the opportunity to ask my external memory capacity there exactly what Mr Sneller's question was. So for the cleanliness, I'm doing it here right now, but this is how it went. And I am not saying that Mr Nijboer was only half right. Maybe he was even right three times, but I think we have just had the bigger debate on what we want to do with the money that in this case is in favour of the treasury. I don't have anything new to say about that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u529	Okay. Finally, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u530	Just so we're clear, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u531	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u532	The 2.9 billion could also have been used under the frameworks during the cabinet period for example for setbacks in the coming years, or under-exhaustment in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u533	No, no, because not everyone has a 100% year-end margin. Then what are you doing? In that case, you have an occasional windfall. Take, for example, that settlement with ING. It seems to me obvious to everyone that this is occasional money. That money is now in favour of the public debt. I cannot cover some structural or perceived problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u534	Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u535	Yeah, actually, finally, because this is the last term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u536	No, because it matters whether it's occasional or structural. The Minister is right about that. That is why I also think that you can put that ING money in, for example, a housing fund, because that is occasional money and then you used it. The Minister does not want that, and that is another political choice. But the Chamber really doesn't have any insight right now. That's what the Council of State says. What is incidental and what is structural of the 2.9 billion? The structural part of that 2.9 billion could really be used structuralally. It is a political choice not to do so: the "thermometer man" in the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u537	Mr President, I think we have exchanged enough about this, and I have nothing to add. Mr. Chairman. There was also one question from Mrs De Vries. Then I come to a few things that were said in the second term. Mrs De Vries rightly asked about the timing of a number of legislative proposals on the labour market. As far as I have not been clear enough about this in the first term, I say that the Labour Market Act will come into balance once the opinion of the Council of State has been received and processed. At least that's gonna be this fall. I think I've already said something about that. And about the committee set up by the cabinet to examine the future of the labour market, the Chamber is also informed for the budgetary treatment of SZW. I just wanted to be specific about that. Mr. Chairman. Then I am in favour of a number of comments from the second term. Mr Mulder mentioned the adopted PVV-motions and he saw the Secretary of State and me watching. Yes, they are clearly visible to the surprise of Mr Mulder himself! I only assumed for a moment that they had to do with living and that they could therefore be taken together, but I leave that to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I also very much agree with Mrs De Vries' encouragement of the Stability and Growth Pact in broad and Italy in particular. I've had the question about Koolmees. Mr Snels, I am fully committed to the sustainability deficit. And thank you for his nuance to the public sector. As far as the Compatibility Act is concerned, I had already preached the answer: yes, and it was indeed an excellent conversation at the Ministry. Mr Slootweg also asked about Italy and the green bonds. So I'll come back to that. Then I'll be with Mr. Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u538	But first, Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u539	The Minister is very light on Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. In the case of spending plans and expenditure, ministers have to visit him and then every euro is turned around, but when it comes to Article 3.1 for tax plans, there has been a good talk and that was it. The Secretary of State shakes no, so I'm curious about that conversation. Can I therefore make a very specific request to the Minister? He's gonna monitor Article 3.1. Does he want to explicitly include Article 3.1 for tax plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u540	I did not want to put the whole heaviness of my role in every answer, and I did not do so at this time. That was half a fraction lighter. Let me say in general terms, because I think we agree that the Compatibility Act applies to income and expenditure. I understand Mr Snels in such a way that he calls for extra attention to be paid to the tax plans. For the record, I was light about that, but of course we're looking at that. In addition, we often do a complicated execution test. So there we are, unlike the answer perhaps suggested, no more lighter than in the case of expenditure. Mr. Chairman. I was just about to say to Mr Sneller that I thank him for his comments on the reforms. We had already talked about OCW: please before the end of the year. I wanted to say the following to him. He just said in his second term that it always leads to a problem. Of course, that has not always happened in the past. With the methodology we now have, it can go both ways. Mr. Chairman. A few comments from Mr Nijboer. He was a little gloomy about what the cabinet promises and what the cabinet does. He was already talking about next year's investments. There is no indication that we would not be spending the investments next year. But if anything happens next year, I'll just inform the Chamber about it again. In no way do I have the impression that there are colleagues in the cabinet who would not want to spend that money, quite the contrary. Mr Nijboer mentioned the outstretched hand. I believe that Mr Asscher and the Prime Minister had some exchanges on practical learning two weeks ago. So you can discuss the size of the hand, but according to it, there was. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Rooijen has made a few comments on Knot, but I shall return to the motion. But I see that I inspired Mr Nijboer first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u541	One comment, because there has really been enough debate on this issue. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u542	We think that practical learning is important. That's about 19 million. There are alternative budgets from different parties, which have not yet been mentioned in substance, in which shifts of 6 billion are proposed and in which there are really many ideas of substance from the opposition. If the cabinet experiences this as an outstretched hand, then we also know about how to assess it. I do not think that is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u543	I don't speak English, otherwise I'd be talking about "beauty is in the eye..."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u544	No, no, no more English.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u545	But I'm gonna keep going. Mr Stoffer raised the Blue Book, but he had no question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u546	But Mr Van Rooijen had a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u547	Apart from that the Minister at the motion in part No. 63 back on Klaas Knot's letter, I would like to have an answer to my detailed speech of two minutes in second term and almost five minutes in first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u548	40 minutes, I think, in the first term. No? Well, then it felt like 40 minutes. I shall now make the point. I thought Mr Van Rooijen was a bit sharp, perhaps I might put it this way in his criticism of the troika, where it was about the Ministry of Finance, but also, in particular, the Planning Bureau and DNB. I might have been a little sharp on him now, too. It was not meant to be, but I do find Mr Van Rooijen here often nuanced in saying that we should talk to each other about institutions that cannot defend ourselves here in this house. I thought Mr Van Rooijen was a little short in the first term because of the turn over De Nederlandsche Bank. As far as pensions are concerned, this is the following. Look, I can't anticipate the pension agreement that might be concluded. Mr Van Rooijen does not have exactly the same views as the cabinet when it comes to pensions, but it is, I think, also Mr Van Rooij's view that we have a very good pension system, but that this system needs some revision. That is precisely why the Minister of SZW is talking to the polder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u549	I see now that the debate is again taking place. We've exchanged almost everything since 2:00 p.m., so I'd like to take a look at the questions that haven't been answered and the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u550	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'll move on. Mr Azarkan made another comment on the sustainability deficit. He's absolutely right about what he said about KiK. I said last time that I find it very pleasant that he pulls on the same side of the rope as myself. I very much appreciate his sharpness, including in the area of long-term public finances. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u551	Has there been a question left, Mrs Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u552	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I also asked for the first deadline: is the Minister prepared to make another medicine for crisis instead of always cutting back on the public sector, increasing debt both privately and with the state, and the elite getting away?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u553	I did not mention Mrs Leijten in the answer, but I think that in general I said a number of things about the crisis and also about the need to build buffers. Now it's a little complicated to speculate about the recipe of the previous crisis for a potential next crisis that we don't know exactly when it's coming and b. what it looks like. Of course, it makes a lot of difference what kind of crisis that would be. Here we had the combination of a crisis in a banking landscape and a crisis in the business cycle, specifically driven by the subprime market in America. I am not going to record in advance, I agree with Mrs Leijten that the recipe of last time should be the recipe for the next time. What is wise in the short term, in this cabinet period, is in addition to what Mr Sneller rightly said, namely to reflect on what reforms might be needed, and I say'reform', not'sustainment', to stick to the trendary fiscal policy and to resist the temptation to spend extra money here too. Because the best thing we can do, especially as a small open international economy, is build buffers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u554	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u555	Building the whole buffers is bullshit, of course. Because we're not doing that at all. We have less public debt, so you can incur more public debt in a crisis. That is exactly what the Minister explained to us in the written treatment prior to this debate, in which I asked: explain what scenarios lie in a global crisis, a debt crisis and a financial crisis. What concerns me so much is that you are actually saying: we need to cut back now in order to reduce the public sector further and put the bill back on the people. That's the same recipe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u556	Yeah, now I really... I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u557	Frankly, I had nothing to add to my first and second-term comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u558	The motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u559	The motions. I deal with the motions in my area and the Secretary of State, of course, the motions that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u560	What motions are those? Do you happen to know the numbers of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u561	Those are the motions on the items Nos. 49, 50, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 68 and 69.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u562	That's almost all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u563	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 49 by Mr Mulder, looking through the hairs of his eyes, I found very similar to Mr Wilders' motion in the Political Reviews. That motion does not tolerate the agreements made. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. The next motion is the motion in part No. 50 by Mr Snels. Then we're just gonna do what I don't want right now. I would really like to stick to what the Council of State has advised for the future, namely to continue, but not to take this step right now. So I'm dissuading the motion at least right now. In theory, I can still imagine that Mr Snel's decision to hold her, because I have also made it clear that I would like to continue with this subject. The motion in part No. I would also advise Mrs Leijten, who does not tolerate the trend in budgeting and budgetary rules. The motion in part No. 55 on the use of space in the frameworks I also advise against. I can say a great deal about this, but I think that Mr Nijboer and I have already exchanged views on this when he was standing at the interrupting microphone. The motion in part No. Mr Nijboer's 56th report deals with the task of teaching. That motion reminded me of an earlier motion by Mr Pechtold, as he himself said, but she reminded me of a motion by Mr Postema from the First Chamber, who asked me for something similar about nine months ago. By the way, he had forgotten at the time that it was a task which the Labour Party also passed on to this cabinet. But in both cases, it simply applies here that every minister, in accordance with the budgetary rules which Mr Nijboer also knows, simply has to solve his own problem primarily on his own budget. If that is not possible, a broader consideration will be made, but the agreements are also the agreements. I therefore advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 57 is about supporting startup. It's an uncovered motion, so I advise against it. The motion in part No. Mr Nijboer's 58 on the landlord levy is also dissuade me, because if I see it correctly, Mr Nijboer is breaking the budgetary rules and the separation between income and expenditure. The motion in part No. 59 is about...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u564	Before you proceed, Mrs Leijten wishes to speak on an earlier motion that has been dissuaded. A brief response, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u565	This minister does not want money left on the Budgetary Framework Care earmarked for care. Can he explain why he is assuming a planned under-exhaustment for the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u566	Again, this is the best possible assessment made, in particular with the help of the policy departments, in this case VWS. We therefore make estimates of how the various items, cost items in our own budget are developing. That is what Mrs Leijten sees here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u567	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u568	I really think it's a bit ridiculous. The Council of State is literally saying that you cannot cover additional expenditure or less revenue, for example through gas, by overestimateing other frameworks, but it is consistently done. It is consistently said to people 'you pay so much to care; ooh, we have to do something about that', but at the same time we know that there is 700 million, 800 million or a billion left on it and we can do other things with it. This is people turning a wheel in front of their eyes. Then you have to make sure that the Budgetary Framework Care is just properly estimated and not with a structural failure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u569	On one point, Mrs Leijten is absolutely right: we are spending a great deal of money on care. We also have very good public health in the Netherlands. The cost per Dutchman is about €5,500, €5,600, per adult. At the same time, we see here that the best possible estimate of the VWS Ministry is that there is some money left in a number of domains. Once again, that is on a budget of about 80 billion. The Council of State has requested that this is a subtle other point, in my view, whether the Minister is sure that these are also long-term windfalls. That was the specific point concerning the concern of the Council of State. The government's assessment has been that this is indeed the case, because otherwise I would not have been able to use it as structural cover, because then I will organise problems for the next spring round.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u570	Mrs Leijten, I do not have the impression that you and the Minister agree on this motion. You are free to simply put the motion to the vote. That's what the motion is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u571	Mr President, there was no answer to this in the first period. That's when I couldn't ask the minister. If you're saying that you're structuralally over-thinking care and that you can structurally cover other things from it, why don't you just do it from the general budget? Why do you abuse the Budgetary Framework for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u572	I'm really moving away from these kind of typologies. I said earlier that the spending frameworks are maximum frameworks. Mrs. Leijten knows damn well. Those are the arrangements we made. We spend a lot of money in this country on healthcare. We have a major challenge to ensure that expenditure does not increase much further. We think this is a very important subject, but we still have a lot of other important issues. We all want something with that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u573	I don't think it's very chic of the Minister to rub the PvdA's hands on another job. During the formation we almost left the outgoing cabinet to arrange something for education. Then there was another commentary. I do not necessarily want to appeal to the Minister. I want to ask a question about that motion. It was then adopted Chamberwide and dealt with the same problem, that teachers and school classes would not suffer from it. How can the Minister, on behalf of the entire cabinet, including D66 executives, discourage this motion, when they were in favour of it from VVD to CDA, from D66 to PvdA and from SP to PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u574	We're in a new situation now, aren't we? Surely we now have a budget where we have an amount of nearly 2 billion to support education. We have just concluded a collective agreement with an additional 8.5% in primary education, haven't we? We are making an investment, even next year, of, I believe, 1.5 or 1.6 billion in education, aren't we? That's part of the new reality, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u575	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u576	Yes, but this again feeds the main point I have made in these General Financial Reviews, namely that investments are being promised again, but that they do not threaten to be made through the back door. That's exactly this point. You say that the cabinet is paying extra money and that the cabinet is going to do this and that, but at the same time there is a mandate and you will come to the Spring paper or to the next budget with the message 'we did not spend it, because we needed it for this'. That's what's happened over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u577	All right, you've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u578	Well, then, with all the sharpness. Mr. Nijboer doesn't like to hear that, but the budget has also arrived with a task. In this case, we have a new task set, a task set link, a challenge. That's what's good news, because more children and more young adults are going to study and so a greater use is being made of the student estimates. And yes, Chairman,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u579	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u580	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think I was at the motion in part No. 59. I think that is a nice motion, but I would like to change it at the end in particular. At the end, it's about "of that." If, for example, I could make it from "famous" to "famous" to "explore a possible approach"... Oh, has that already been adapted? Well, Mr. Chairman, it's going at the speed of light here!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u581	This is a little painful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u582	Mr President, I have the version before me that has been handed over to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u583	Mrs Leijten, this is about Mr Bruins' motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u584	I know that, Mr President, but I think the Minister has gotten an old version, because we have already incorporated his suggestion into the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u585	I am happy to take that up, not on that, but this is just the piece of paper that I have got my hands on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u586	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u587	Mr. Chairman. With this adjustment, that is what it was about. I can also leave that motion 'judge chamber'. Then I'm at the Van Raan c.s. motion. in piece No. 60. I would like to thank Mr Van Raan for keeping this important issue on the agenda. I really want to get on with it, but this is too big a leap forward for this moment. In this form, I would like to discourage the motion. I can also imagine that we will continue to do so and resume the debate at some point, but in this form I cannot accept it now. Then there is another motion by Mr Van Raan, on item No. 61, which is about Stanford's investigation. That is a phenomenal institution and he also mentions a phenomenal amount in the motion. I find it very complicated to cycle through the great climate map of Minister Wiebes now, so I must advise against it at this time. Then I will be at the Van Raan motion in part No. 62. That's where he asks me something that I'm comfortable with, when it comes to purchasing power bill fetishism. He's asking me something that puts me in an uncomfortable position in two ways. First of all... As far as I am concerned, the CPB is doing an excellent job, but it does so in independence, so it is not right for me to find any of that. Secondly, it is the political parties, and not me as Finance Minister, who ask the Planning Bureau to pass things on. In this way I cannot go along with it, because this is also an appeal to me, so I must discourage this motion. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the motion by Mr Van Rooijen and others. in piece No. 63 on De Nederlandsche Bank. I have just said that I think it is important that we also do justice to De Nederlandsche Bank and the Planbureau. As far as appreciation is concerned, my impression is that Mr Koolmees has also given his vision, and as far as he has yet to give it, he will do so as the pension dossier develops. I do not think it is necessary at the moment to add anything else. I don't think that's helpful either, given the conversations that are going on, so I have to advise against that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u588	Mr Nijboer has asked whether the motion I tabled on item No. 63 can be co-signed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u589	We shall now proceed to the signing of the motion for a resolution. 63 amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u590	Replying to the Minister, Minister Koolmees has not given a position. He only put a stamp on the letter from the President of De Nederlandsche Bank. He sent that letter to the Chamber eight days later. This minister deviates from the views of all his predecessors, as a senator he knows that. He also deviates from all previous positions of De Nederlandsche Bank, including Mrs Van Vollenhoven, three months ago, so the president makes a big spin and thus puts a bomb under the pension agreement talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u591	I think Mr Van Rooijen means by "this minister" Minister Koolmees. Also speaking on behalf of Minister Koolmees, I do not recognise that and I really want to leave the pension file with him. I do not see that we should want to give substance to this motion at the moment, even now that Mr Nijboer's name is underneath it. Then there is the Van Rooijen motion on part No. 64 on the years of reform and compensation. As far as we are concerned, the purchasing power picture is balanced and the motion is also uncovered, so I must advise against it. The Azarkan motion in part No. 68 also talks about balance. We already have a sensible social balance, as far as I am concerned, but also a precarious political balance, so I must discourage it. Then the Azarkan motion in part No. 69. We send in advance and not again afterwards, so with all the compliments for creativity, we make life very complicated. Moreover, the consequence would be that if we overestimated the estimate, I would have to get money back, and I will not be able to sell it to Mr Azarkan either. So, Mr. Chairman, that brings me to the end of my second term, with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u592	I would like to accept the Minister's suggestion for the motion on broad prosperity and how we would incorporate it in the next Millions note, so I will continue that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u593	At the request of Mr Snels, I propose his motion (35000, No. 50). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u594	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u595	Mr. Chairman. I had some questions about the first term. Fortunately, there aren't many of them, but I think it's okay to answer them before I get on with the motions. The first question is Mr Van Rooijen's question. He wondered whether the cabinet had realised that there are also companies that no longer have to pay dividends tax on the profits that were still held back. I say to Mr Van Rooijen that the cabinet has realised that. Each year, some of the accumulated profits are paid out and dividends are levied on them. By abolishing the dividend tax, we are losing these revenues. But that's already in the estimate. What part of the profits that is distributed is new or is raised is not relevant. What is important is that we estimate that without abolition there will have to be a yield of 1.9 billion. And that's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u596	A brief comment. Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u597	I'll come back to the dividend tax later. I merely asked the Secretary of State to try to give an indication for that debate: how many hundreds of billions of profit reserves are there on which a potential dividend tax claim rests? That has nothing to do with the estimates for the coming years. I don't know either, but it's hundreds of billions. If the dividend tax remains, part of it will be taxed at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u598	I don't recognize the hundreds of billions. These were therefore included in the estimate we made of the costs of 1.9 billion, as I explained in the memo on the estimates. Perhaps the following in addition, because that might be a misunderstanding, I am not sure. I believe that Mr Van Raan also had questions about the settlement. Perhaps it is good to point out that the dividend tax itself does not have an exit tax. Therefore, if a company moves to another country, the Netherlands cannot levy a dividend tax on the stocked profit reserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u599	We're not gonna talk about the dividend tax, because the Tax Plan...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u600	No, but it is in the event of a liquidation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u601	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u602	Good. Mr. Chairman. Then there was a question from Mrs Leijten which I did not have a direct answer to. That question was about the 800 million and the 500 million. The most important thing is to state here that there has indeed been a EZK bill on the rates of the ODE. It is true that there is a higher share of the burden on households than on companies. I think that's what you said. How is that possible if it is balanced? This has to do with the fact that the refund lock on tax relief in income tax is larger. In the first term, I said that everything is being rerouted. The increase in the energy tax is therefore, in the first instance, reorganised by means of a return lock. In that respect, it was balanced. Then I come to the various motions that remain for me. I start with the motion-Snels/Stoffer in part number. 51. It actually asks whether we could not ask the Council of State for an opinion on what is happening at the Supreme Court. For the record, the opinion of the Attorney General at the Supreme Court is an opinion to the Supreme Court on a specific case pending there. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). For this reason, it would be somewhat inappropriate for us to ask the Council of State for an opinion and an opinion at the same time. That is why I must reject this motion for a resolution because it is not the sole consideration of the cabinet. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 52. In fact, it calls for a proposal for a public campaign as soon as possible to raise awareness among older people of the fact that they may forget to cash their supplement. I've been thinking about that. I would like to give a slightly more extensive appreciation, but don't be afraid: not a minute too long. Indeed, in my reply in the first term, I have already tried to point out that the cabinet considers the reduction of non-use so important and that it is already actively pursuing this policy. I mentioned three examples of what we already have. I have also referred to the recently launched ibo Simplification surcharges. In doing so, we have been explicitly asked to investigate the causes of non-use of surcharges, which we want to know, and the possibilities of reducing non-use further than we do. Moreover, the suggestions made by you would be taken into account. The motion that has now been tabled concerns only older people, and I have indicated that we also want to deal with non-use by other groups. However, I would like to take that as a further support, namely that it is also important for the elderly. Moreover, a government campaign is not really the most common way to report this very specific group, nor is it the most effective one. Anyway, even if I said all that, I can see what the motion is asking for. And if I may read the motion in such a way that you are actually looking with us for ways of shaping the existing policy as efficiently and effectively as possible, then I would like to leave the vote on the motion to the House. Mr President, I would like to comment on this in more detail. Then I come to the motion on part No. 53 but I see Mr Slootweg coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u603	Then I wonder what will happen, because now I get the idea that it is going to be some sort of ibo-like research. Then there's a few more things being picked up. But I think it can be very targeted. We are also asking for older people's organisations and their networks to be used. In a government campaign, I'm not saying it should be PO Box 51 or anything, but you can really use the channels these people use through a government campaign. I think you're quite capable of targeting them. So I would just like to hear something more than 'ibo-research and efficient and effective'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u604	I thought that in my first term, I had actually paid a great deal of attention to this. We are currently working with older people's organisations. The campaign Aid for declaration is not only done by the service. So we have several points in the country ready to help people in their attack and their surcharges. That is already being given real attention. It is not the case that it has not been thought before that we like to pay attention to this through the channels used by the elderly, not only about the elderly, but also about others. That's already there. At the same time, I note with you, and that is why I want to go along with this positively, that it has still not been resolved and that more can still be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u605	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u606	And that's why I'm saying this. I see the support and I understand that we need to do it as effectively and efficiently as possible. But if that were to be the suggestion that there is nothing at the moment, I would be happy to mention those three points in the first period. They are also taken into account in my consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u607	It's not the suggestion that nothing happens now, but we just want more to happen. I'm a little worried when the Secretary of State says we're taking it with us in an ibo investigation. My experience with ibo studies is that they can take a very long time. And I think this is a problem that people just run into. We want to solve that by doing more than we do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u608	When I hear this, we come to the motion itself: 'calls on the government to develop as soon as possible a proposal to increase awareness and remedy it through a government campaign among older people'. In the first period, I have tried to point out that one of the important elements of the ibo is that we want to investigate what that is really about. If we don't know what it's about yet and we're going to start a government campaign, it might feel a bit like putting the horse behind the cart. So I was just trying to tell you that I understand the stakes and that I'm positive about it, but we shouldn't pretend we haven't done anything about it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u609	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u610	So my point remains: I leave the judgment to the Chamber, but under the conditions I just indicated. Then we go to the motion on...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u611	Mr President, I...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u612	Mr. Nijboer, I'm in charge of the interruptions, and I suggest the Secretary of State proceed. It is a motion from Mr Slootweg. Mrs Aukje de Vries was not allowed to say anything about it either, because only the first author is allowed to say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u613	Mr President, I have to vote on something later. The explanation given by the Secretary of State, who leaves the judgment to the Chamber, is something other than what is in the motion. So I'd like that cleared up, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u614	So Mr. Slootweg's?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u615	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u616	That is a very fair question from Mr Nijboer. I really need to take a look. Let me put it this way: I am really asking for more right now. And I think that through those government campaigns there can be a little more. And I do not want to say that nothing is happening, and I think I indicated that in my first term, but I think that much more can be done on this point. And that's more than just an investigation. Anyway, I just need to weigh this up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u617	Is it clear to you too, Mr. Nijboer? Do you know what you're going to vote for?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u618	No, Mr. Chairman, that's not really clear to me. I fear that not only the opposition but also the coalition will not achieve anything today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u619	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u620	For the sake of clarity, in my comments I was not just talking about an interdepartmental policy investigation. I just said that the moment you want to make effective government policies, it's wise to know what's wrong. I had already promised in the first term that your concerns would at least be dealt with. You are now asking for more to be done to get all the way out of it. I support you in that. I'd like to think along with you. I'm just saying we have to be careful not to shoot into all kinds of actions before we know what's causing it. But having said that, I returned the motion with judgment Chamber. Then we're at the motion in part no. 53 by Mrs Leijten and a number of other co-signators on the impact of the increase in VAT on different income groups. It invites the Government to make this calculation. The Minister has already said that he will talk to the CPB about this. This motion is asking for that, too. I would therefore also like to leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. It helps. All the information helps. This is an investigation. So judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u621	It strikes me that motions that get Chamber's judgment lead to discussion. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u622	No, Mr President, I have a supplementary question. It is nice that the verdict on the motion is left to the Chamber. I think that this is also just objective information that we all want, but is it still possible to deal with the Social Affairs budget? That was actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u623	The motion says "if possible." If we had to ask ourselves, it would be a different time. We'll give you this. It would be nice, because then we have that decision. But since I'm asking someone else, it's a good thing that I'm sure those others can, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u624	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u625	I forgot to invite Mr Van Rooijen to sign my motion. So I'd like to add it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u626	Good. Then that's changed, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u627	But it's still "judge room." Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 65 by Mr Van Rooijen on Box 3 and a new regime for savings. However, I would like to say that the fictitious return in box 3 already takes into account the current savings rate of a year ago. I think that for next year, on average, is less than 0.3%. So the idea that, regardless of the exemption, over the first euros should be paid so much, is a bit of a crossover. But here things are connected that don't quite add up. In any case, trying to treat savings separately in box 3 leads to all kinds of constructions. It thus also leads to more circumvention possibilities and more complexity for the service. I dissuade the motion for that reason. The motion in part No. 66 of Rooijen's member asked the government to abolish the inheritance and gift tax. It's uncovered. So it's actually very simple. It is, as far as I am concerned, also to be discouraged. In the motion in part No. Mr Stoffer and Mr Baudet asked the government to identify the consequences of the policy of giving deductions and to share this analysis with the Chamber for the treatment of the Tax Plan. I think I have just indicated that it is impossible to investigate that behavioral effect. And whether that's today, tomorrow or two years from now, you never know. You never know with retroactive effect in the economy whether someone has decided to give that euro, because a tax discount went up or down, because his premiums went up or down. Those things are really impossible to determine, let alone analyze. For that reason, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u628	I would like to return to the motion for a resolution on item No. 51 on the opinions of the Council of State and the Advocate General. I am not convinced by the answer given by the Secretary of State, but I think it would be wise to wait until the opinion of the Advocate General becomes public. I understand this will happen in a week or two. That's why I'm holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u629	At the request of Mr Snels, I propose his motion (35000, No. 51). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-04-tweedekamer-8.u630	I would like to thank the Members of Parliament, the Minister and the Secretary of State for Finance, the people of the Stenographic Service, the clerks, the staff, the messengers and the people who have followed this debate in one way or another.
