ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-4.u1	We are going to Mr Sienot on behalf of D66 for his question on the drought alarm of water companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Madam President. The consequences of extreme weather are becoming more and more common in the Netherlands. Recently, the mud flowed into living rooms in Limburg. In Zeeland the traffic was extremely nuisanced because the roads were white. And also in the north of the country were cellars white. It's not over yet, whether we see again that a huge period of drought, record-drought, keeps the whole of the Netherlands under its spell. Not for nothing I say "the whole of the Netherlands," because last Friday we received the message that no less than 6 million households are asked to be more economical with water: fewer children's pools, less watering, being economical with showers. In short, it affects all of us. Climate change is already in full swing, and we see its consequences. We need to prepare for that now, because this is the beginning. It's not an incident. We're gonna see more and more violent weather. The heavy weather forecast for 2050, we can already see. My first question to the Minister is therefore: does she agree with D66 that we need to take action as quickly as possible so that we can deal better with climate change, even when it comes to a long period of drought and heat stress? Is the Minister prepared to settle this with the 2019 budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Sienot hits the nail on the head. Climate change is coming at us on all sides at a rapid pace. We have indeed seen it with the water overload due to heavy showers in different places in the country. The drought has been causing problems for some time now. I agree with you that we certainly need to deal with water in an economical manner, so I would like to emphasise the call made by the water authorities, by the Rijkswaterstaat and by all the experts. Don't go washing your car at peak hours at those hot moments. It isn't nice at all, because of the dust it immediately gets dirty again. Do not shower too long; in short, take full account of it. Taking action as soon as possible: at peak hours, not unnecessarily burdening the water network is something that people can do themselves. Together with the waterboards, we also have 400 million for the drought. That's where the Empire puts 150 million and the partners the rest. So there is already a plan to deal with freshwater, because that is already in the Delta Fund. We can't afford water pollution from the Delta Fund. As you know, last week, in the general consultation I also sent a letter to the Chamber about Water........................................................................................................................................................ Hittestress is a problem that goes with it. That sounds crazy, but that is of course also part of the climate adaptation. Local authorities are now in the middle of a stress test. We have already given 5 million incentives for this in any case, and I also proposed to the Chamber during the same general consultation that 10 million more should be made available to the front-runner projects for the years 2019 and 2020. That is actually the approach I have in mind to get to work on this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you. I hear the Minister say very clearly that she is also taking this problem very seriously. That's a good thing, because it's coming and it's already around us. It's just bothering us. I understand very well that the Minister is now sitting on a pot of gold, but the food is drowning, the ships are stuck and nature is on fire. Then you can't just sit on your hands. That is why once again the question: can we deal with the budget for 2019? I have not yet heard a very concrete answer to that. The climate does not wait for legislative changes. The climate doesn't wait for investigations. We have to get to work now! That includes my next question. If it takes longer, farmers will suffer, because they will be allowed to spray less in the short term. The skippers can suffer, because the waterways are less passable. What exactly is the Minister going to do about this? What can she do? And what is the Minister going to do to help farmers and skippers in the longer term, so that they can prepare for these firm changes? Can the Minister inform the Chamber of this matter as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-4.u6	First of all, Mr Sienot says that I am sitting on a pot of gold. I'm afraid I haven't discovered it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-4.u7	Me neither. I didn't mean on a pot of gold.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-4.u8	That is why we have had to do a great deal of work and that I see no other way out than to propose to the Chamber that the Delta Fund be opened up in order to obtain financial resources. So we have to do that with a lot of art and flying. You say you haven't heard a concrete amount before 2019. I said that in addition to the 5 million incentives we already had, both for the years 2019 and 2020, we have 10 million, but then I really have to scrape all the holes and corners of the Ministry to get that together. That, I think, is a very concrete offer. You also asked about the peasants and the skippers. At present, the drought does not seem to cause any problems for shipping. For example, with the Rhine, it will only become problematic with an inflow of 1,000 cubic metres. We are now at 1,200 and because it is thunderstorm elsewhere in Europe, among other things in Switzerland, that the case is again coming towards us, because they are rain rivers. That seems to be going well, but we are on top of it and are informed every day. Also Rijkswaterstaat is on top to be able to warn shipping as soon as possible, if necessary. That is not the case for the time being. Among farmers, the Union of Water Councils is above all about monitoring water quality and the quantity of freshwater. In some parts of the country a ban on irrigation has indeed been imposed. And then there is always the alternative of groundwater, which can be used. I am also very pleased that we recently decided to make the Peil decision IJsselmeer flexible. There were then, before that drought, perhaps some skeptics in the room who thought: is it necessary? I think we can see right now why that is absolutely necessary, because, for those who do not yet know, the IJsselmeer is a third of our fresh water supply. So that could still be an important buffer, next to Lake Marker. So we keep an eye on it from all sides. And not only us, but also Rijkswaterstaat, the Union of Water Boards and the drinking water companies. Everyone is constantly working on it and holding the finger on the wrist. As soon as additional measures are needed, I will, of course, share this with your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-4.u9	I thank the Minister for her answers. It is good that we have discussed extreme weather today, because it is clear that climate change is not waiting for our stress tests and is already taking place. I have heard the commitments clearly. The Minister will do her best to see in 2019 what is possible to arrange all the extras within the existing directives. For the longer term, we'll get the legal adaptation. That's really good, too. I would also like to ask how we will keep the waterways passable in the long term. I'm sure that's not a problem right now, but this is, as we said, the beginning. This isn't an incident, it's the new normal. How do we deal with this in the long term, so that the waterways remain navigable? Is that included in the plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-4.u10	I can reassure Mr Sienot, because the whole programme is reviewed every six years within the framework of the Delta programme. On your initiative, we once had a debate on the rise in sea level. We will certainly look at the combination with opportunities for climate adaptation. A new report will be published in 2019. The KNMI releases all new calculations. For the next Delta programme, of course, we will try to take account of the long-term as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mr. Sienot. Then Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-4.u12	If water is on the agenda, I can't stay behind as an ambassador for water and sanitation. We should, not only when the weather is nice, be much more aware of water. The question is whether this is also a moment to seize the opportunity to launch a public campaign on "be wise with water," because the concerns are there. You can see that it's very important that people think a little more before they turn on the tap. How does the Minister feel about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-4.u13	A great deal is being done about this, by the drinking water companies and by the water boards. We also contribute to this. I call the Week of Our Water. We also pay attention to other aspects, such as drug residues in the water. You can also see that a lot of NGOs do a lot of good work on that. Last week at the Volvo Ocean Race, I was allowed to see the Dutch Wavemakers. That's fascinating, too. They focus on the youth and went around the world with the Volvo Ocean Race. You see children behind a sandbox where they pour water into and then they have to keep the houses dry. For children you also have the ditch project of IVN. I think it is already being thought of throughout society and, where necessary, we will be happy to support it from the Ministry. With your SDG and everything you do for that, of course, you will also contribute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you, Minister.
