ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 34763, extension of the power of closure of drug houses. I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u2	I give the floor to Mr Dercksen. Can I ask everyone to just sit there? I have welcomed the Minister on behalf of the Chamber and I think that is enough. Mr. Dercksen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u3	I wanted to give everyone the room to leave. Mr President, thank you. The PVV Group is positive about the present amendment to the Opium Act, which provides that the mayor is also empowered to close premises where preparatory actions are being carried out or are being carried out. That is to say, where no drugs were found themselves, but where, for example, equipment for manufacture or chemicals, the so-called precursors, were found. Of course, I call on the Minister to deal with this in a proportionate manner or to let the mayors handle it. It shouldn't be like someone's getting kicked out of their house because their ex left some stuff in a corner of the house. There has already been a great deal of attention in the House of Representatives, but I think it would be a good idea for the Minister to speak about it in this House too. Nor should landlords who are aware of no evil remain stuck with enclosed buildings for unnecessarily long periods of time. The Minister has indicated that there has been consultation with the sector, but the sector itself, at least part of it, says it does not know anything. Is he prepared to consult with the sector, as the Minister has already promised, and to reach good and workable agreements with them to prevent drug nuisances? I'd like a response. But it still wrings. It's a tiny step where drug criminals in this country are practically free to go. The amount of drug trafficking is 19 billion. That's twice the defense budget. To top it all off, the federalists, the cultural Marxists in Brussels, add that to our GDP, which means that we also have to pay juncker and tramps hard-earned tax money on black drug trafficking. Honestly, we pay tax money on the turnover of criminals, because it can always be even more insane. It is difficult because, without a major plan of attack against drug trafficking, there will be more innocent victims. Of misdemeanor murders, for example. This morning, it was in the paper that a 17-year-old young lady died from an overdose of MDMA. There's no big plan of attack. It wrings because, if you have a pot plant too much, you're going to be knocked out of your house, while mosques, where Westen hate, women hate and homophobia are promoted and terrorism is organized, can go ahead unhindered. It wrings because shishalounges, broines of crime, are not put in the way. It wrings because dealing in the schoolyard only leads to community service. And it wrings because in the outside world the drug trade is free. The minister went on a field trip there last week. They're free to dump their shit, for example. In my province, the province of Utrecht, there are three green boas for the entire outskirts, three FTE. Finally, a question about the safety net provision for synthetic drugs not listed in the Opium Act, new psychoactive substances. On the motion adopted unanimously in the Lower House - Van Nispen, in which a request is made for the criminalisation of percursors - I summarize it a little bit more succinctly than in the motion - the Minister has not yet responded, other than that on 11 July this summer the colleagues in the Lower House received a notice that the minister was working on it. We would like to know the state of play and the extent to which this is a priority for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mr. Dercksen. I shall now ring the bell because there will be a maiden speech from Mrs Andriessen. I'm gonna ring the bell. I think that's enough. I give the floor to Mrs Andriessen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u5	Mr. Chairman. As agreed in the government agreement, this minister is committed to combating organised and undermining crime. His commitment is commendable. Several cities and regions announced that they would start working on the money they are making available. It is in this policy that we are being presented with a further proposal to combat drug crime. The Minister wants to extend the powers of mayors so that they can close a home, local or associated estate where there are objects or substances that are intended, inter alia, for the production of hard drugs or large-scale or commercial illegal hemp cultivation. It is clear from the explanatory statement that this link was still missing in the Damocles Act, i.e. Article 13.b of the Opium Act. That article already makes it possible for a mayor to close a building when drugs are being sold there. With the proposed legislative amendment, closure may also be allowed when such a property is not so much a point of sale as a place where the goods show that drugs are being manufactured. This extra link should help to tackle the increasingly smart underworld. However, this proposal in my group does not immediately lead to a sense of security. Because let's face it, the Dutch drug policy has got itself seriously mixed up. Whatever we pull, the knot won't loosen, but it's getting tighter. In the reflection on this bill, my group therefore calls for attention to be paid to two issues in the drug knot. First of all, Dutch people are using drugs. We have well-run coffee shops, where something other than coffee is sold. A comparative analysis of sewer water in Europe shows that the Netherlands has the highest use of ecstasy. A festival today is not conceivable without the offer of party drugs. Politics is starting to think differently about soft drugs. Not least because of developments abroad, like the United States. Here on land, a test can be started with weed. Is it not true that, in the long term, the consumption of certain hard drugs, such as ecstasy, will be seen as inevitable harm or good? It is now clear how the Minister feels about this. In a few interviews, he said soft drugs are okay, hard drugs aren't. For my group, the question remains whether this view is working properly in practice. The lawyer who sniffs cocaine to get through buffaloing, the festival guy who wants to go loose, the drug mule on his scooter, they just keep doing their thing. As long as that is the case, this new power of closure will not change for the mayor. The drug business will continue to move. From sunbed homes to holiday parks, from farm barns to industrial estates. Even if it doesn't affect local residents, the problem remains that the place can catch fire and waste is dumped. Our first question is therefore: How does the Minister intend to prevent the illegal production of drugs from continuing with this new measure? Secondly, we call for attention to be paid to the mayor as sheriff. A restraining order, an eviction, expatriation of families in the event of nuisance, land bans, the mayor is now imposing sanctions as if he were a judge. All that without the defendant having the same rights as in criminal law. The scholar Nehmelman has already criticized the increase in public order law. This minister gives the mayor even more power with this article of law. As the judge disappears from view in this fight against undermining, questions arise about legal certainty. The mayor as sheriff creates legal inequality, as homeowners have already noticed. What procedures are going to be followed later? In one congregation they will be different than in the other. This leads to unclear situations for residents and landlords throughout the Netherlands. The mayor becomes sheriff without ever being trained for it, without being specifically selected for it. A number of senators have recently pointed out in this Chamber the threats that this poses to mayors. Our group likes mayors, as we know, but we are wondering whether a citizen's father or mother should be saddled with this task. Not all mayors will sleep better because of this extra authority. It is not a question of good authority, it is a question of how it works in practice. It is again the mayor who comes into the picture, while prosecutors and judges can bury themselves in anonymity. Former mayor of Haarlem and former chairman of the Dutch Society of Mayors, Bernt Schneiders, whose car was set on fire in 2016, warned that the visible role of mayors makes them vulnerable to intimidation. "They should not be the focus of the fight against undermining crime."," he said on the radio recently. It seems that the sword of Damocles is slowly hanging above the heads of the mayors. Who's gonna protect the mayor who's gonna get stuck in the tight knot of our drug policy? "If you saddle the mayor with new responsibilities, you also need to reform the organization." That's what Michel Vols, Deputy Professor of Public Order Law, said in The Financial Daily of 8 November. When city and mayor are given a more prominent role in the fight against crime, this has implications for civil servants' security, among other things. "If you want to turn municipalities into security organisations, it's going to be much more expensive." Pieter Tops, professor in Tilburg, therefore stressed at a mini-conference on anti-undermining in the Lower House, that mayors should not go after the bad guys themselves, but have a role as directors who formulate collective standards. That brings me to the second and final question to this govern ment. When was the limit reached in the accumulation of this type of powers for the mayor? With this new knot, I hope to make the Minister think. My group is looking forward to his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u6	Mrs Andriessen, I should like to congratulate you on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. You studied Dutch law at the University of Groningen, where you graduated from criminology in 1969. Then you were promoted to the same university in law. In 1994 you returned to the college banks when you attended Harvard University political sciences. After your PhD in 1976, you became associate professor of criminology, "scientist chief employee," as it was then called in Groningen. In 1984 you made the transition from science to governance. You became chairman of the board of directors of the Hogeschool van Amsterdam and at the same time you were a member of the board of directors of the University of Groningen. In 1990 you made a short trip back to education.... and became visiting professor at Berkeley University in the United States. In the Netherlands, you remained active as a director and advisor at many organisations, especially in education, public administration and the cultural sector. Most recently, you were the chairman of the Dutch Association for Voluntary Euthanasia for eight years, of which you recently said goodbye. You have been a member of D66 for twenty years. Just as long it took you to become a representative of your party: in March 2018 as a member of the Amsterdam-Noord district committee and since last September as a member of the Upper House. You have been active within D66 for some time as editor of the Party magazine Democrat and of Idee, the political-scientific journal of the Mr. Hans van Mierlo Foundation. Your writing is also evident from your contributions to many publications; fiction and non-fiction. In 2011 even your own collection of stories was released, entitled Good Works. As a member of the Committee on Justice and Security in this Chamber, you are back at the beginning of your career as a criminologist. Once again, welcome and we look forward to your further input. I shall suspend the sitting for a short moment to give the honourable Members the opportunity to congratulate you on your maiden speech, but, as always, this will only happen after I have congratulated you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u7	The next item is the continuation of the first term on the part of the Chamber of the handling of the 34763 bill, extension of the power of closure of drug premises. I give the floor to Mrs Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will speak today on behalf of the SP and the Party of Animals. The next item is the legislative proposal for an extension of the power of closure of drug houses. This bill extends the authority of the mayor in the Opium Act to close a property or a house, a so-called drug house, under the Opium Act. This gives the mayor more opportunities to prevent and control the risks to public health arising from drug use, and to counteract the adverse effects of the production and distribution of drugs on public life and other local conditions. The mayor shall have this power of closure in cases where objects or substances clearly intended for the cultivation or preparation of drugs such as equipment, chemicals and dissection agents are found in a building or house. The current closure power only refers to situations where drugs are found, sold, delivered or provided in a property or home. Remodeling drugs in homes is dangerous. There could be a fire, and it could cause extra crime. Breaking and entering, violence, drug use, drug sales and fraud. Crime that can impair safety and viability in a residential area. The closure of drug houses can send out a signal for prevention and repression. The groups of the Party for Animals and the SP consider safety and livingability to be important in residential areas. Following the present bill, the political groups of the SP and the Party for Animals still have a number of questions to the Minister. Firstly, on the 0% justified appeals against the closure of the premises. Secondly, on the impact and protection of those concerned. Thirdly, on administrative law that is going to behave like criminal law. The first is the 30% well-founded appeals against the closure of the premises. The research carried out by university lecturer Bruijn into rulings on Article 13b Opium law in the period 2008 to 2016 shows that 30% of the published judgments have justified the action against the closure. This is then a matter of rulings under the current legislation. The current legislation extends the powers of the mayor even more. In the Lower House, the Buitenweg/Van Nispen motion was accepted, in which the Lower House asked the government to monitor the use of the administrative closing power, to analyse judgments of the judge and to inform the Chamber three times a year. The Minister states in the reply to the First Chamber that he considers this to be an appropriate response to the findings of this researcher. However, before the Chambers are informed, it is three years after the present legislative proposal is introduced. Has the Minister already considered the reasons why the appeal against the closure was justified in 30% of the published judgments in the period 2008 to 2016? If so, could the Minister inform the First Chamber of the results of this investigation and explain what has been done with these results? Has this led to changes in the current bill? If not, is the Minister prepared to examine the grounds on which the appeals against the closure of the drug premises have been justified? This is a worryingly high percentage and the infringement has a significant impact on the residents and owners concerned. If so, is the Minister prepared to agree to inform the First Chamber of the results of this investigation? The examination of these statements is important because the Second and First Chambers have, in the previous law and this law, shown themselves to be critical of the broad competence given to the mayor. The government has repeatedly stressed that closing a home is the last resort and that a considerable number of steps must be taken before closure. However, in the policy of municipalities, contrary to the legislator's intention, it is announced that the first infringement will be closed. The practice has developed since 2007 in a direction where finding more than a user quantity of drugs in a home leads to immediate closure. This is how I draw it from the research of the university teachers Peters and Bruijn. What moves mayors to explain the law so comprehensively? I'd like a reflection from the Minister on this. The second point concerns the impact on and protection of those concerned. The previous point showed that mayors are already explaining the law so widely that practice has developed in a direction where finding more than one user quantity of drugs in a home leads to immediate closure. 9% of house expulsions are already related to soft or hard drugs. According to 2017 figures, 810 households are involved each year. Due to closure, residents lose their social homes and cannot re-register for five years. Bruijn's investigation shows that in practice the circumstances of the case and the consequences of the loss of a home hardly affect either the mayor's decision or the judge's decision. Some of these residents will then be dependent on emergency and crisis relief. Nightcare costs one municipality per person about €25,000 and crisis care soon €35,000 and even more when it comes to a family. We need to tackle drug possession and drug use, but is this practice not already destroying more than we like? Mayors will be given even more opportunities with this law to close down their homes. How does the Minister protect these people from the crime-fighting mayors, especially now that the mayors are given more powers to shut down the homes? The third point is administrative law, which is going to act as criminal law. Where the legislator was looking at dwellings that were inhabited by appearances only, the power of closure is not rarely used to tackle drug possession and use. However, that is the area of criminal law. The groups of the SP and the Party for Animals do not seem to want the mayor to take over a possible failing criminal investigation. I'd like the Minister's response. Mayors are increasingly acting like criminals, which in turn provokes a counter-reaction, resulting in threats to mayors. Could the Minister reflect on this development? The political groups of the SP and the Party for Animals look forward to the Minister's response. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u9	Thank you, Mrs Wezel. I give the floor to Mr Schouwenaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to congratulate Mrs Andriessen on her maiden speech and, of course, wish her every success in our First Chamber. This bill has been welcomed by the VVD group. We have asked a single question and we thank the Minister for his answer. It is not unusual for us to ask ourselves the question when dealing with a legislative proposal: is there a problem and, if so, does this bill contribute to the solution? Both questions are answered in the affirmative by my group. The problem is a huge increase in drug-related crime. We are increasingly seeing the negative effects of this. National police figures are rising rapidly. The media reports about chemical waste, threat, reckoning and fire hazard. The recent research by Professor Tops and Jan Tromp warns against a mixture of the underworld and the upperworld. The problem also plays a regional role. Take, for example, the report of the Zeeland-Brabant Task Force. This report points to a gap in the Law Damocles. After all, when raw materials and equipment for the manufacture of drugs are found, the municipal authorities can only close if drugs are also found. If there's no drugs, the city can't do anything. That is what this bill provides for. Does the bill solve the problem? Yes, but unfortunately only a small part. Because drug crime is, and remains, extensive. Nevertheless, small steps count and help. The intention of this bill is that by closing a property is no longer a drug house and therefore no more fear and nuisance in the neighborhood. Moreover, closure shows that something is actually being done about it. This objective is supported by my group. Madam President. Objections were also raised during the discussion of this draft law. In short, they come down to the following. One. The mayor's gonna be in the area of criminal law and he doesn't belong there. Two. There is a risk that the mayor will take too many and too heavy measures. Three. Closure feels like punishment for the residents, user or owner. Four. Families with children may be made homeless. Five. It would be better to confer jurisdiction on the court. Finally, six. Evacuating is preferable to closing. I would like to make a few comments on each of these objections. The mayor's not gonna interfere with criminal law, even if it might seem like it. The closure of a property is not aimed at suspicious persons, as in criminal law. It is about restoring the desired situation in the interests of the residents. That's government law. The follow-up to the mayor's performance is also in administrative law. The administrative judge will therefore carry out a review. Under administrative rules: no Code of Criminal Law and no Code of Criminal Procedure. Indeed, there is a risk that the mayor will take too many or too heavy measures: from civilian father to sheriff. However, this passion is limited by a series of policy rules. In a municipality not known as Middelburg as a criminal, these rules cover more than fourteen pages. It regulates every possible case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u11	With regard to the relationship between criminal law and administrative law, it struck me when I examined this bill that public order, which is normally the basis for the mayor's action, is now being abandoned. It is now about a preventive approach in the context of public health and that sort of thing. So public order has now been released. Mr Schouwenaar states that there is no other way, because criminal law cannot take its course here. But if you're looking at whether it's necessary to actually close a building, it's about finding material and objects that have to do with the production of drugs. Why, if you want to keep it purer in criminal law because public order is not at stake here, would you not be able to seize those items? That could be the police, and that could be sanctioned by the D.A.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u12	I think you're right about that. It's not either-or, it's and-and. The Public Prosecutor's Office is acting to enforce criminal law and thus ensure that the undesirable situation is put to an end, but that undesirable situation consists of more: serious nuisance in neighbourhoods, fear, environmental degradation by waste and you name it. The newspapers are almost daily, let me say, weekly full of them. That's the mayor's grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u13	I think the mayor already has tools to shut down buildings on the grounds of nuisance. This is precisely about producing in buildings, where you do not have a walk to the property which can cause possible nuisance. So the link to public order is absent here or very thin. That raises the question much more: should we not stick to criminal law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u14	Sure, but we shouldn't neglect administrative law. The things you mention are correct and I agree with them, but there is more, as I said earlier, for example, fire risk. The mayor has a lot more duties on his plate. The neighbors will come to him, not the district attorney's office. For example, there are many reasons why, in my view, it would not be right to keep the administrative law, which is specifically for this, out of the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u15	Finally, I will mention in my contribution the instruments that the mayor already has. I really have the impression that the mayor is perfectly capable of doing so with regard to all the arguments you are putting forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u16	Indeed, there is a risk that the mayor will take too many or too heavy measures. I mentioned the policy rules of the municipality of Middelburg, which provides for all possible cases. Furthermore, the mayor is well aware that everything he does can be destroyed by the administrative judge. Besides, the mayor doesn't function as a loner. In everything he needs the political and administrative support of the city council and the college of B and W. As the enthusiastic sheriff wants to be re-elected, so the mayor also wants to remain in office and do his work as well as possible. As far as point 3 is concerned, that may be the case. But if you're affected by the administrative measures, it feels like a punishment. And probably as an undeserved punishment. However, my group does not consider that to be a good reason to waive closure. Administrative law is not about personal feelings, but about an objective feeling: a reasonable wish. We regard that as an interest. Not only the interests of the disadvantaged count, but also those of those living nearby. They have the right to protection. Those interests need to be weighed up. That trade-off could turn out to be negative. The mayor can't please everyone. In fact, there is a risk that the administratively disadvantaged will also be faced with criminal proceedings. Particular attention has been paid to families with children. They run the risk of getting homeless. It is right that the policy rules take serious account of this. The municipality also helps with the search for living space. This often happens, as with other situations, such as fire or disasters. During the treatment in the Lower House, the idea was suggested that instead of the mayor, the judge should be called in. It sounds nice, but it doesn't recognize the trias politician. The mayor's in charge. The judge takes action to settle disputes. My group sees no reason to revise the triad on the occasion of this legislative proposal. There is no need for this and it would demonstrate little confidence in local democracy. Finally, the proposal to replace "closing" with "clearing." The legislative proposal offers all the scope for consultation on the measures to be taken. However, my group does not think that it is appropriate to give up the possibility of closure. This bill would not be enough to meet its purpose. Finally, two questions. In the Lower House there was also talk of a safety net to better determine what we mean by drugs. The Minister has agreed to come back to this within four or six months. In the meantime, we're eight months away. Can the Minister inform us more about this? Then there's the other question. Does the Minister consider it appropriate to examine whether existing legislation on entry into homes and privacy should be adapted so that crooked tenants can be recognised earlier? Madam President. All in all, my group thinks this is a good legislative proposal and we look forward to the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u17	Mr. Schouwenaar, can you stand still for a moment? Mr. Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u18	I would like to return to the beginning of your speech. You said, like me, that this is a rather small measure. I've just read that since 2013, we've had almost 1,000 less agents. What's the VVD like in there these days? It is a policy of one step forward and two steps backwards. It's been a while since we've been able to call the VVD a law-and-order party. We're all a little older, and maybe a few people remember that. But where has the VVD been that has attached importance to security in this country? This is a mini-measures and this cabinet, except for a few visits in the country, does not intend to do so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u19	I do not consider myself directly responsible for the policy actions of this cabinet, but I do not want to hide the fact that I agree with a very large part of those actions. In my working life, I have been able to deal intensively with the issue that you are now raising. From those years I remember that the VVD has always argued prominently for more police capacity and also often more powers, and more attention to prevention and repression. In short, it was and is always a key policy for the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u20	You always argue for it. I would like to believe that, although I might be able to comment on this in the meantime, the policy is that we now have 1,000 agents less than in 2013. The mayor's gonna want to close a place, but there's no more cops to give hands and feet to because they've been cut off. Maybe boas should do it? Where will it go if we no longer have agents, but adopt legislation requiring agents to be appointed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u21	It is not entirely clear to me what you doubt: to yourself, to me, to the VVD or perhaps to all. I don't know. The question you asked, I am very honored that you expect an answer from me. You should ask the Public Prosecutor's Office and the regional triangles, because that is where the stakes are determined. You know as well as I do, or perhaps even better than I do, that the police are extremely flexible in doing less on one task and doing more on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u22	Finally, Mr. Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u23	I sometimes doubt myself a little, because it wouldn't be very good to never doubt that, but I particularly doubt the policy of the VVD, which is depicting itself.I try it secretly again as a law-and-order party. The facts are that 1,000 agents have been cut off, while the problems, especially drug crime, are rising against the cliffs. We sometimes go with boas in the province and it really is a drama that takes place there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u24	It's more of an observation. I can only repeat that as far as the VVD is concerned, not just the VVD, but a lot of parties, security and the role of the police, the capacity involved and all the difficult questions of choice involved in this need to be given a lot of attention. The police are working very hard on this. It's easy to put it that way, but in practice it turns out to be much more uncomfortable than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u25	Thank you, Mr. Schouwenaar. I give the floor to Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Andriessen on her beautiful maiden speech. I hope there are still many nice speeches to be made. Mr. Chairman. In the explanatory memorandum to the bill, the government writes that trade, production, cultivation and other illegal activities related to hard drugs and soft drugs have an undermining and potentially disruptive effect on society through the interrelation of the under- and the upper world, corruption and innestation in local communities and social sectors. My group wholeheartedly shares the government's analysis and sees in practice the growing size of this sector and thus the adverse effects on public health and viability, both in urban and rural areas. The administrative approach has an increasing role to play in tackling drug crime over a number of years. Cooperation between municipalities, police, Tax Office, Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as property owners and housing corporations, on the one hand, and an extension of the administrative instruments on the other, enable mayors to act in homes and premises where drugs are present, are sold, delivered or provided. My group strongly supports this integrated approach. In fact, we believe that this is the only approach that leads to results, in addition, of course, to the criminal approach of those who commit drug-related crimes. Mr. Chairman. From my own experience, I know how frustrating it is when you, as mayor, know that in a building, drug-related activities take place that cause nuisance in a neighborhood and you can't do anything about it, because everything is found, except drugs. The present bill extends the instruments for the mayor and allows closure of one building even if objects or substances are found clearly intended for the cultivation or preparation of drugs. So far, therefore, the bill can count on our agreement. But my group also has concerns and I am happy to share them with the Minister. Our concerns relate to the proportionality of the bill. The closure of a house or property is a poignant matter, both for the resident and for the landlord or owner. This must not therefore be lighthearted and requires a very careful consideration of interests on the basis of a very careful investigation by the police and a well-motivated decision by the mayor. In this context, my group has a few questions for the Minister. When a house is closed, the resident is on the street. If it is a tenant, it will be blacklisted so that he or she will not be able to rent a house again. That's not nothing. To written questions from my group on situations where a tenant is forced to cooperate in drug crime, the government has replied that she is aware of such situations, but that she knows no examples of closure in such cases. At the same time, at another request from my group, the government indicates that it does not have information on the number of buildings or dwellings closed on the basis of Article 13 of the Opium Act. We were surprised by these answers. We would certainly have expected this information to be known. Meanwhile, a motion has been adopted in the House of Representatives to ensure that information on the number of houses closed on the basis of the extended Article 13b will be collected over the next three years. In our view, this motion is a little general. We need some coloring. Can the Minister promise that in the next three years information will be collected not only on the number of closed homes and buildings, but also in which municipalities closed down, which administrative measures have preceded closure, what considerations of interest have been made by the mayor, how often there has been forceful cooperation, where tenants have remained after closing their homes and whether the closure has led to the removal of the undesirable situation? My group is committed to getting the best possible understanding of all these points in order to be able, albeit afterwards, to form an image of the proportionality of the legislative proposal. We are pleased to receive a commitment from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. As said: closure of a house or property has far-reaching consequences for the resident, but also for the landlord. The government is therefore right to say that closure of a house or building should be seen as an ultimate remedium. My group strongly shares that view. Only after other measures have been applied will closure appear. We think not only of administrative measures, but also of consultations and agreements between the mayor and the landlord of a property or property. Vastgoedmanagement The Netherlands Mr.Dercksen also referred to the Dutch government recently sent us a letter in which they indicated that they would like to contribute to the prevention of drug nuisance by, for example, a thorough screening of tenants and as much uniform implementation of the law by mayors as possible. How does the Minister assess these suggestions? Does he see any other possibilities in this regard? Mr. Chairman. When allocating rental homes, corporations have a free allocation space of 10% for households with health, safety, social factors, force majeure or calamities issues among others. Does this offer space in the eyes of the Minister to offer new housing to tenants who have entered the aforementioned blacklist? The Buitenweg/Van Nispen motion adopted in the Lower House also refers to the judgments of the judge on the mayor's closure orders. Examination of the use of the current Article 13b has shown that in some 30% of cases the court has held that the closure was unlawful. That's a high percentage. One in three closures doesn't last in court. Although we are not sure, my group assumes that this has to do with the degree of care in the consideration of all interests by the mayor and prior to the determination of the actual circumstances by the police. Does the Minister share this view? In order to avoid that the percentage of decisions on which the action against closure is based is still so high in three years' time, my group would like to hear from the Minister how he thinks he can reduce this. Of course, it is the mayor's responsibility to take a decision, but my group assumes that the Minister also feels a responsibility for the most careful implementation of the law. Is the Minister prepared to do so, and if so, how is he going to do it? Finally, it is very important for a mayor to be able to base his decision on sound administrative reports from the police. How does the Minister, as the final officer responsible for the police, assess this quality? Does it meet the requirements that need to be met? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. At the beginning of my input, I stressed the importance of an integrated approach to drug crime. In this context, the present legislative proposal is a new instrument that will be available and will undoubtedly follow several. My group also sees the legalisation of soft drugs as such an instrument and calls on the Minister to make progress with a trial to legalise the cultivation of pot. We're getting a little impatient. In the coalition agreement we read that, if possible, the cabinet will come up with legislation within six months. In the meantime, we're over a year away. Can the Minister indicate when the experiments will be launched in concrete terms? The minister's already shaking "no." He can think about it for a while. The answer will follow later. Mr. Chairman. My group awaits the Minister's answers with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u27	Thank you, Mrs Vlietstra. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u28	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the extension of the powers of mayors to shut down drug houses. No one could have missed that. An important touchstone for the First Chamber is, of course, whether additional powers are needed to act against the production of and trafficking in drugs, but also whether those powers should be administrative or criminal. This bill fits into a series of years of extending powers in both criminal and administrative law, not only to detect and prosecute criminal offences, but also to prevent them from happening. The government's toolbox is well stocked and the question is when it will become overcrowded. A choice for more repression in a democratic rule of law should not only be heavily substantiated, it is necessary, is it proportionate, both the law and the application? However, it must also go hand in hand with strong guarantees for citizens so that they can defend themselves against too much intrusiveness, arbitrariness and violations of their fundamental rights. My group lacks attention to that last point in this cabinet, even though we now have a genuine Minister for Legal Protection. How does the cabinet ensure the necessary balance between repression and civil rights? This is all the more important when the repression is extended over the bond of administrative coercion, which is not surrounded by criminal procedural safeguards. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. But this bill also raises a fundamental question about government policy on drug trafficking. It seems as if we are getting stuck in a repressive approach. Where other countries overtake us left and right with a more liberal drug policy for reasons of public health, think of the US and recently Luxembourg, the response of this cabinet seems to be mainly more criminal law and administrative enforcement, without a start of a vision of the most desirable and effective strategy to counter the negative effects of drug use. The cabinet is going to carry out a pilot, but many municipalities are already failing because of the impossibility and finiteness of the project. The pilot seems doomed to failure, because it is not embedded in a long-term vision and seems completely disconnected from the repressive trend that continues unabated; see this legislative proposal. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Perhaps he could say something about the long-term vision of this cabinet on how to deal with drug use and how to combat its public health aspects. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the question of whether we need this particular new instrument. The mayor already has a wide range of tools at his disposal to deal with drug-related disorder. The mayor may close a house if public order is at stake because of behaviour that seriously affects the safety and health of residents. Mr Schouwenaar mentioned this as arguments for this bill, but in my view this can already be done. I would like to hear that from the Minister. The College of B and W may close buildings to a threat to viability or a danger to health or safety. The city council may withdraw housing used for the manufacture or trafficking of drugs from the resident. Finally, under the current Article 13b of the Opium Act, the mayor can close a house if drugs are sold from there or even if they are present there. According to that Article, that presence already constitutes sufficient indication that public policy is at stake. Mayors enthusiastically use this far-reaching form of control. In 2016 alone, 1,277 buildings were closed on this basis. The proposed extension of the power of closure is a step further, because it will soon be possible to close the house if precursors to synthetic drug production are found in a building, even without drugs being present. Some objects will soon be related to drug production or trafficking, but many others will not. Finding pots in which cannabis can be grown is already sufficient ground for closure. This extension goes a long way, because possession of material that is not in itself punishable can now be sufficient ground for the closure of a property. The mayor will have to make it plausible that there is a prohibited preparatory act, but he does not have to prove the offence, nor does he have to prove the intention or science of the persons concerned. This raises serious questions about the legal protection of persons concerned, in particular tenants or property owners. According to the Government, their culpability is irrelevant because the closure concerns a "plot-oriented recovery sanction" aimed at preventing or ending an infringement. At the same time, however, the intervention clearly has a profound impact on the persons concerned, whether it is a punitive sanction or not. In many cases, the closure mainly affects people with a socially weaker position who have received drug-related activities against will and thanks or after over-enthusiastic promises. Their problems are exacerbated by this intervention, and the municipality will still have to help them find new shelter. This raises not only questions about proportionality, but also about effectiveness: do we catch the big fish? The big traders will find another building, with other socially weaker tenants. Could the Minister comment on this? For another reason, too, enlargement goes a long way. In fact, the use of jurisdiction does not involve any disturbance to public policy, nuisance or damage to the safety and health of residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u29	I may be a little late, Mr President, but I was still thinking about Mrs. Strik's words. She speaks of course worthy words about how a tenant, and also a landlord, can be affected by such measures. But what I'm missing in her speech is the neighbors. Those are often the ones who turn to the mayor and say, "What about us?"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u30	That is precisely what I have just had with Mr Schouwenaar. This is disconnected from nuisance and public order. That's why I feel like the mayor already has other options. So if it's really about nuisance and if the safety of residents is at stake, I think the mayor can act already. The legislative proposal is also justified by the argument that this is a preventive approach and a public health issue. That is why I have the idea that it does not concern residents, but rather the prevention of drug production. Nor is it necessarily a question of dealing with properties from which they are traded. It can also be about buildings where it is simply produced. So there will be no people walking back and forth, and riding mopeds and cars with which one comes to pick up the stuff. It is therefore wider than that it should protect those living around, as Mr Schouwenaar thinks. And I think there are other instruments for that, but I'd like to hear that from the Minister later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u31	Then we will wait together for the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u32	Well, then we'll do something together, Mr. Schouwenaar. The proposed legislative amendment is aimed at an "effective and preventive approach." I have an ice cube in my mouth, Mr. Chairman. That's not very convenient. The question is, however, whether it is reasonable to extend Article 13b of the Opium Act in such a way that, on the basis of public health risks, it can achieve a preventive approach to drug production. With this preventive approach through the Opium Act, the legislator is increasingly deviating from the original intention of the decision-making power as a final part of the coffee shop policy. How is that consistent with the principle of ultimum remedium? And isn't the administrative authority being used too easily to compensate for a failing criminal investigation of drug-related crime? This trend of accumulation of powers takes place without clear coherence. It is precisely because of the limited legal safeguards similar to those in criminal law that it is crucial to be reluctant to broaden the instruments of administrative enforcement. This may be all the more pressing as access to legal aid is increasingly under pressure. Mr. Chairman. Even now, the closure power does not seem to be applied as an ultimatum remedium. The power of closure in Article 13b of the Opium Act has already been established in many municipalities as an important pillar in the fight against drug abuse and drug trafficking. Mayors seem to have a tendency to use the hardest tool to tackle drug possession and use. And we can already see that the regular application of the power of closure leads to social problems. Think of families with children standing on the streets and in debt; I just mentioned them. It has become used to close without warning. We also see large differences in the way in which municipalities draw the line between user and trading quantities. In municipalities such as Breda, Eindhoven, Helmond, Den Bosch and Tilburg, the presence of more than 0.5 grams of hard drugs is sufficient for closure without warning for three months. This is not always an indication of drug trafficking in practice, especially in the case of regular users who have a personal stock exceeding the user quantity in the strict sense. In Amsterdam, a more nuanced approach is taken to the amount of drugs found, and other factors are taken into account. Can the Minister answer the question as to how these major differences, and in particular the almost mechanical application of the closure power in many municipalities, relate to the intended character of ultimum remedium? Is it not necessary to always carry out a well-known and verifiable study of proportionality? Mr. Chairman. If it has already been mentioned that the fact that in 30% of the cases registered action against housing closure is upheld by the court is also an indication that the power of closure is anything but ultimatum remedium, at least in the application. The Minister seems to think that this percentage points to an effective and proportionate practice, but my group would like to encourage the Minister to do a little more ambition. Surely we should assume that his policy and practice can pass the judicial test in many more cases? In all these well-founded statements, we must bear in mind that people have been removed for nothing and that they have been deprived of their rights for a long time. Mrs Wezel also said that they could not register for another house for five years. The effects on children are also undoubtedly harmful. In practice, therefore, there seems to be insufficient consideration of the proportionality of the measure and of the individual damage and suffering in the light of Article 8 of the ECHR and Article 3 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. What measures does the Minister take to encourage more careful and cautious use of closure powers? And how is he going to prevent this from happening with the extended powers from the outset? We welcome the fact that, following a Buitenweg/Van Nispen motion, the Minister has undertaken to monitor practice and case law in this area and to inform the Chamber. However, the question remains which criteria the Minister ultimately uses in his assessment of the evaluations. And what results does he intend to take further steps to improve? I'd like a reaction to that. My group also supports Mrs Vlietstra's request for more information on this evaluation. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. My group believes that an extension of the power of closure must at all times be accompanied by a careful consideration of the proportionality per case and a proper justification of the power of closure as an ultimatum remedium. We would like to see more ambition from the Minister to reduce the percentage of closures that have been declared unjustified afterwards. In the hope that he acknowledges this commitment and that he convinces my group of his strength in this area, we are happy to await the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u34	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, on behalf of my group, I should like to congratulate Mrs Andriessen. We look forward to exchanging further thoughts and perhaps even interrupting once. Of course, I couldn't do that right now, but congratulations. Mr. Chairman. Dutch criminals play an important role in the production of amphetamine, together with criminals from some other countries, especially Poland. And Dutch criminals are the largest producer of ecstasy in Europe. The Netherlands is probably also the largest producer in the world, but hard global data is lacking. Shocking findings from the report where a small country can be big, which the Dutch Police Academy presented in early September. If there is anything that this minister has been intimately confronted with during the first year of his ministry, it is the extent of drug crime and its impact on society. Drug laboratories in residential areas, dumping waste: we see every week, sometimes even every day, that it runs out of spuigates and that ordinary residents of our country are exposed to dangerous situations in this way. Moreover, according to the report, Dutch criminals contribute at least 18 billion to the illegal world economy when it comes to the production of synthetic drugs. It is precisely for this reason that my group expresses its appreciation for the spirit of combat shown by this Minister to tackle, eradicate and drug them. We wholeheartedly support the Minister in this fight. Today we are discussing a bill that does not deal with detection but with the effects of drug production and trafficking in, for example, a residential area or an industrial area. If there are objects or substances in a building that are clearly intended to make or grow drugs, the mayor will be empowered to close the building. The Christian Union Group agrees with the support of the bill, which, on the one hand, helps to break the chain of drug production and trafficking and, on the other hand, prevents a neighbourhood from being ruined by the rotten choices that make up these premises. At the same time, there are three further questions. This concerns the position of the mayor, the proportionality of the measure and, finally, the impact of a closure on the environment. First of all, the mayor's position. It is terrible that mayors have to live under heavy security because of threats from criminal organizations that are fully active in the drugs world. From this place too, the brave mayors who are concerned with this matter have a heart. The proposed bill makes the mayor's options even wider. Does it bring new risks to the mayor now that he can be active in countering criminal organisations and their practices in an ordinary residential area? How does the Minister judge that? Moreover, in Mrs Bruijn's research, which has been quoted several times today, on the development of the application of Article 13b of the Opium Act, it is noted that most of the mayors did not close any premises in 2016. How does the Minister judge that fact? Does the Minister, in consultation with his colleague in the Interior Department, have any idea how the mayors in the municipalities where, fortunately, drug crime is not yet or less visible, can sail sharply if the use of powers is necessary? It seems to my group that there is no drug crime in all these municipalities. In any case, it would be very regrettable if the municipalities around Oss or Schiedam, for example, where many buildings are closed, were the new refuge for criminals. That waterbed effect must be avoided. Does the Minister see any reason to equip mayors to use these powers where necessary? Mayors who act firmly can also have consequences for their safety. We know those examples; I just said it. What does that mean for the office? How does the Minister and his colleague in the Interior keep an eye on the pulse that this development is not obstructing in finding good mayors who can act decisively? Then there is the proportionality of this measure. This has already been discussed in the written preparation, and indeed in the House of Representatives, and I believe that this has already been discussed in plenary. Because it must be avoided that the effects are disproportionate for roommates, for benevolent reporters who either as owner or as co-rentor experience the consequences of closure equally well. The Minister has already shown his commitment in the House of Representatives on this point and the Buitenweg/Van Nispen motion has put the dots on the i, so that enlargement is still a restoration sanction and does not become punitive. The Minister also asked the Centre for Crime Prevention and Security to organise a discussion between municipalities and landlords this autumn to explore how measures of landlords and municipalities can reinforce each other. How'd that conversation go? The landlords fear that the environment will spoil if a property cannot be rented again for a long time, and that brings me to my third point. I think those landlords have a point there, but it also applies in the situation of a property for sale. Because if a building is closed for six to twelve months, then first of all it has a beautiful signal function to the area: do not start this! But then if the shelves remain in front of the windows, then that kindly has no incentive effect to move the neighborhood to a higher plan. How does the Minister assess that effect? Is that also the subject of discussion in the aforementioned consultation? But are other stakeholders and those responsible also involved? I am thinking of VNG and, of course, the Minister of the Interior. Now that the Minister is firmly engaged in the fight against undermining, the resilience of local communities must also be borne in mind. What are the intentions of the cabinet on this point and how will the Chamber be informed about this? I would like to hear the Minister specifically about this. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. The Minister will find us on his side if he gives mayors the opportunity to act earlier on the ongoing drug crime. This must be done in a way where mayors are well-supported, proportionately deploying the measure and with regard to the effects on the living environment. I look forward to the Minister's answers on all three of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u35	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-eerstekamer-7.u36	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments, pending the Secretary of State for Legal Protection.
