ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the continuation of the joint treatment of legislative proposals 32399, on the Law on compulsory mental health care, 31996, on the Law on care and compulsion psychogeriatric and mentally handicapped clients, and 32398, on the Law on forensic care. I would like to welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, the Minister for Legal Protection and the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport to the First Chamber. We have arrived at the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr President, thank you. If one of the rulers meets the Minister of Transport today, he can convey my concerns. First of all, congratulations and compliments to Mrs De Bruijn for her maiden speech in the first term. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has indicated that it has taken ample time to implement the laws, and I am pleased to see that. I think this is necessary, too. I thought that the Minister for Legal Protection was still a bit of a practice on the titles "Just a little easy to get over the criticism of the Public Prosecutor's Office." I think it was a little more fundamental than he showed. I also find it rather uncomfortable to have to discuss a word like "immediately." In legislation that is already so complex, it does not seem useful to give a word a different definition than it already has in the Dutch language. I hope that we can prevent this and also make it clear to the field what we mean by it. Mr. Chairman. The Minister for Legal Protection was quite enthusiastic about the recurrent figures. I've been looking for some figures from 2014 in relation to TBs. After nine years, there is 21% TBs-worthy recidivism. Those are life crimes soon. One in five, then. For general recidivism, this is 41.4%. Those are not figures that I immediately get excited about, quite the contrary. Behind every crime scene, there's a victim, there's torn families, there's torn families. The trend may be somewhat downward, but perhaps we should add to that the limited detection capacity that we have. In the meantime, you're gonna have to come to this country with a good house if you're gonna be able to file a report. If we put that bar next to it, I might be a little less happy about the numbers than I already am. Mr. Chairman. I already spoke in my first term of office about the 2012 WODC report. The incidences of serious and very serious offences committed by people who have committed sexual offences are 58.8% and 63.3% respectively. For me, that really is a sign that this system needs to be kicked. Mr. Chairman. We also discussed intervention in clinics that are making a mess of it in the first term. We have, of course, talked about Altrecht. I would really like to know whether the Minister is going to intervene in this clinic administratively with this law or not? I think that we can all see that there is also a very critical report that has gone terribly wrong there. Then I'm not just talking about Michael P., I'm talking about the entire functioning of the clinic. Is he gonna intervene? He has intervened by leaving the worst cases out of the door for the time being, but is he going to take any further action? Is he going to appeal to the directors for their failure, because it cannot be that these people, who have failed so badly, simply remain there? What will be the line when the Forensic Care Act is adopted? Then, Mr. Chairman, the oversight. This is a bit along the lines of my previous remark. We didn't quite get out of there yesterday either. I understand that it is complicated to have the inspection go there every day, but if the inspection had spoken with the shopkeepers' association or the residents' association, for example, the inspection would have been sufficient to know that it was not right. I would like to hear a little more intrusive from the Minister about how he is going to tighten up supervision. Are there any capacity problems in getting supervision in order? Is the quality of supervision also improving? It's gone wrong in there, and I'm making it strong that this isn't the only place where things go wrong. We also had a comment about foreigners pouring in the TBs here. We didn't quite get out of that either. I would like to know from the Minister what the current policy is. What are we doing with the Pole who stabbed a lady to death in Utrecht and who is about to go into Dutch TBs after three years of punishment? What is standing policy? Is that a stand-alone policy and do we think that is right or are we going to send these people back to the country of origin? I believe that Poland has a regime that is even stricter than ours. So I'd say that's a win-win situation. I honestly thought that I discussed quite prominently the report of the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings and Sexual Violence against Children. I did not get a shuffle on that at all, not even from the colleagues who were very busy with the refusing observers while we have a report here, although it is about sex offenders. This report states that there is a method in which the suspect is not needed at all to determine as best as possible what the risk of recidivism is. What are we gonna do with that report? I read it. It didn't come out that long before this debate, and I really fell off my chair. In it, a rapporteur writes, she says, on the basis of stacks of scientific research: "We have been doing it wrong for a hundred years. We should not look at clinical judgement, but we should look at statistical data." A number of countries are already doing so, and they are undoubtedly doing so for a reason. If there is such a hard report, I would also like to discuss it, but I do not seem to be able to make it through in the second term. Partyman Wolfsen is coming up with a letter and you're starting an investigation right away, but here's a report on how we can get a proper assessment of the risk of recidivism without the suspect. There may be a little more reaction to that than I have received so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Dercksen. Will you stand still?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u5	I don't know if it's a question, but at least a short response. We are certainly interested to hear and know more about the technique used in that investigation or to which the human rights rapporteur refers. It deviates from what is actually the regular standard: people judge other people. In this case, you will see to what extent data can help assess people's situations. We are certainly interested in that. Perhaps the Minister would like to give us some more information?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u6	Thank you for the interruption. Then I can briefly explain why I think that is so important. I read an interview with a young woman, also from Utrecht, who came across almost the same as Anne Faber. She survived, but she experienced the same thing. She was left for dead. The unsubs both used cocaine, raped several girls and used violence. They both threatened murder, repeatedly committed violent robberies, showed no remorse, didn't want any TBs and didn't want to go to the Pieter Baan Center. If I combine that with the rapporteur's report, all the bells will ring. I really hope that the rulers and colleagues will do the same. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u7	Thank you again, Mr Dercksen. I give the floor to Mr Diederik van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers very much for their detailed reply. I'll start with the Law care and coercion. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a more detailed appreciation of the CCE recommendation on the situations in which external advice should be sought. I also mentioned it in my first term. The CCE recommends that, in the case of measures that are less immediate, external advice is limited to an annual consultation at group, department or location level. Is the Minister taking that recommendation? I would add that the legislator itself also distinguishes between light and heavy forms of voluntary care, see Article 2.2. That distinction must therefore be possible. I would also like to thank the Minister for his answers on forced care and euthanasia and for his statement. For the rest, he refers to the role of the review committees. However, I do not think that review committees are looking at whether anyone has received sedating medication or has been detained before that lethal injection was placed. I would very much like that to be sharp. If this goes too far now for the second term, I would like, if possible, to have a written explanation. The administration of these medications is, in my opinion, undisputed care as provided for in the Health and Force Act. Hold someone, fixation, is so, see only the proposed Decision care and coercion. Surely it is unthinkable that this would suddenly be different if a lethal drug or sedating medication was administered to prevent the client from resisting administration? I hope that this does not sound too harsh in the odd situation that forced care under our legislation is virtually out of the question, but that the bar is set a lot lower if someone opposes that lethal injection. I don't think that's right. Does the Minister agree with me and what does that mean? Can I derive from the Minister's words that when administering sedating agents or allowing someone to be held, there can no longer be a careful execution of euthanasia given the Law of care and coercion? If so, the review committees should ask for this in any notification of euthanasia in dementia, regardless of whether or not the doctor says anything about it on his own initiative. Is this what the minister means? Should this not lead to an adjustment, an extension, of the notification form? Mr. Chairman. Then, in general terms, with regard to the Wzd. In the first period, I expressed my deep concerns about the increase in the administrative burden of the Wzd on healthcare providers. I also have great reservations about the feasibility. It is not for nothing that the Minister is already announcing changes. I warn him: if he goes to the House of Representatives with this, it is not excluded that the House of Representatives will also be very firm in this matter and will develop such a legislative amendment. To be honest, the SGP does not want to accept a law that is already clear that it will be seriously rebuilt in the foreseeable future. That only increases the confusion in the field. An important pain point concerns the administrative burden resulting from the involuntary care roadmap. That is why I asked the Minister to identify possible alternatives to the Roadmap involuntarily, to make more tailor-made work possible and to reduce the administrative burden, and to inform the two Chambers thereof, prior to his announced legislative amendment. That still seems to me to be a sensible suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u9	Mr Van Dijk, do I hear you say that you are actually withdrawing your support for the Care and Force Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u10	I have already expressed great reservations about this in the first term. I said what I just said. I have serious doubts about its feasibility. A substantial change to the law has already been envisaged. I do not feel that we are very much helping the field by quickly saying yes to this law and then looking at what is going to happen. I think it is a difficult balance and I am indeed sceptical on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u11	Thank you for your open answer. With me the image of a caregiver who has a demented family member sitting at home, who is restless and wonders at some point how to proceed. Yeah, he thinks I've got a plate of apple sauce in here, and I'm gonna put in that pill the doctor prescribed. That is also an implementation practice at the moment. I fully realize that the Law on care and coercion is not yet ready, as far as it can ever be finished. However, I would like to call on you to think carefully about what it means if we do not allow the Health and Force Act to continue. For that has real consequences for the application of coercion........................................................................................................................................................................................... I'd like to give you that consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u12	I would like to thank my sympathetic colleague very much for his cooperation. I fully acknowledge that it's difficult. The question is simply whether what is now lying is ripe enough, partly in view of the fact that there is still a substantial change. This also has to go through the Lower House and you know how that can go on that side. Doesn't this add to the confusion for the field? What are they up to? The dilemma is clear. Thank you for your question. Very briefly about the Wet forensic care. The SGP agrees with this bill. Criminals must be severely punished and society must be protected, but at the same time this sounded like people last night. They must not be written off harshly. I read the book "This brittle existence" by W.M. Dekker. He writes in this, very pointy, yet still: "We humans are the worst beasts there are, but God insists that we are human." It is good to continue to nurture this tension, including the punishment of criminals and also the balance between treatment and punishment. I have no comments on the mandatory ggz Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u13	Thank you very much, Mr Van Dijk. I give the floor to Mrs Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u14	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers for their detailed reply last night. However, my group lacked the specific answer to my question in the first place about the high risk of legal embarrassment for the caregiver and the caregiver in the home situation. How does the present legislative proposals of the Wvggz and the Wzd prevent this embarrassment of action, both in the care provider and in the care provider? There is often a lack of direct supervision. Provides the step-by-step plan or step-by-step plan the care plan sufficient to increase awareness, including among carers, so that unnecessary restraint can really be avoided? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, the congratulations of my entire group, even though they are not all there yet, to Mrs De Bruijn for her maiden speech. I would like to thank the directors for their reply, particularly for their enthusiasm for helping the target groups for whom these laws have been drawn up. I would also like to thank them for their enthusiasm for keeping these laws workable for the people who implement them. I wish all three of them to hold on to the implementation that will follow if this Chamber will indeed agree to the laws. That does not alter the fact that the laws are complex, Mr President, and last night did not change them. With regard to the Health and Force Act, I would like to ask the Minister once again how he sees the explanatory statement. Is there really no comprehensive text on it, which can have more meaning for the field in the interpretation of this law? Moreover, I very much appreciate his commitment to look at how these two laws, the compulsory ggz Act and the Health and Force Act, relate to each other in the forthcoming review, and to see if one legal regime would be better. I am very pleased that the Minister has taken this up, especially when it comes to legal protection, and that he is also implementing the 2014 evaluation of forced care. He will also include in that evaluation that the care plan will not have a judicial effect. Thank you for that. Thank you for clarifying a number of concepts, which are already contained in Article 1 of the law but which were still unclear. What does "caregiver" mean, for example? Furthermore, I would like to mention the awareness that it is sometimes mbo-4 and sometimes mbo-3 care providers who fully implement the healthcare plan in the vg sector. I am very pleased that the Minister is aware of this and I hope that we will put this into practice. There's nothing wrong with the success of the law. Then I'll come to internal surveillance. We talked about the relationship between the Wzd doctor on the one hand and the healthcare provider on the other. I understand that in the article of the law some openness has been expressed as to how internal supervision takes place, because it differs from one situation to another: an outpatient situation or an institutional situation. At the same time, my concern is that it will become too vague. Forgive the metaphor, but in a student household, you have that you're both thinking, "Who cleans the bathroom?" And then nobody does. Of course, that should never be the case here. Supervision must be well invested. It must be clear and also known to the target group. So it shouldn't get too vague. I hope the Minister will keep a finger on the wrist. I am very pleased that it has been promised to extend the implementation deadline until 2020. Thank you for that. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply on Article 7.1: the crisis measure and the mayor, who should actually hear a person before that measure can be imposed. There is the possibility of mandating and it is asked to motivate if it does not succeed. Mr. Chairman. So much for pure joy. It's gonna go on for a while, but then... the Forensic Care Act. In my view, the Minister has made the relationship of Article 2.3 clearer. He says: I do not see the gap that the prosecution and the case law would have created when Article 37 was deleted; that has really been resolved. He explained that further. I want to wait and I sincerely hope that he is right. We are going to follow that closely. The pièce de résistance, as it turned out yesterday, is for us the measure of refusing observandi. Is it going to work now? We know what it costs: breaking medical confidentiality. I'm afraid of care-avoidance, which is that there are calculating people who aren't looking for care. The minister says, "I can't see it in front of me." A number of MPs did. So that's a case of well-naïve. In addition, there is the practice that the penitentiary chamber will have to judge on documents that it has not seen and on whether a prosecutor may indeed go further. I have not yet heard the Minister about this practice either. There are also concerns about this from the field. I have a hard mind about whether this is going to work and, above all, whether we are putting as much danger as possible on people who are really committing serious crimes, because that is what we are talking about; I am well aware of that. That's what it was all about. So it is not a question of: how tough are we in introducing this measure? That's not what I'm talking about. It matters to me that it works. I am therefore genuinely pleased that the Minister says: I am going to work seriously on the suggestion of the Personal Data Authority. I suppose this is really something other than that he likes it, to put it mildly. So he's taking it seriously. I would like to ask him this. Minister, in the spring the WODC will come up with a further exploration of how things are going with the TBs. How often is investigation denied by suspects? How often does a judge say, "I'm putting TBs on"? Can the Minister include the suggestion made by the Personal Data Authority in this outcome of the WODC? Can he say more about this in the cabinet response? I would appreciate that very much. He has said: it needs to be looked at in depth. Maybe spring is too soon, but then I'd really like to hear a term. My second point is that I see that the law will be reviewed in three years' time. The Minister and the Chamber are in a nutshell about what works best when it comes to discovering which people are going to show calculative behavior. Or are they just not doing that and we're going to track them all down like this? I would very much like this to be explicitly included in the evaluation. I see Mr. Dercksen coming. I'm sure that's about the National Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u17	You may gamble again later. No, it's about the refusing observandi. I've just given you two examples of unsubs who had quite a lot on their plate. Those weren't nauseous crimes. Do you now call the medical professional secrecy of these suspects, or in this case of these perpetrators, more important than the social interest and importance of the victims and their environment? Can we put aside a little naivety that may not be everyone, but almost everyone refuses TBs, or at least refuses observation, because they do not want to end up in those long tbs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u18	That is exactly why I say: take Wolfsen's story seriously. For I do not want anything other than Mr Dercksen, namely that people who have all kinds of things in their carved pieces or are planning to do so, and if that is because of a mental disorder, indeed they get either tbs or they start treatment right before they come to those actions. I am very happy to hear that the PVV is now also working to ensure that these tbs will also work. That is a real gain from this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u19	I said something about that yesterday. We're happy with TBs because they'll be stuck as long as they can. That is the importance of TBs as far as we are concerned. I just gave you the recidivism figures. I don't know if that'll make you happy, but it doesn't make me happy. For me, it's not a signal that the treatment works. In fact, the national rapporteur states: "Get that clinical judgment out of it now, because that is where the assessment of the risk of recurrence goes wrong. All I see is arguments for taking the TBs on the shovel. For us, it is a method of securing people as long as possible and not getting them into society. The proposal now being made in the Wfz is not a holy grail, but a mini-step in the direction of looking for opportunities to get someone who is in some trouble in those longer tbs. I had hoped that the impact of what happened in the autumn and the importance of society would be greater than this. I have only heard you and some others judge the interests of the perpetrators, while the social unrest and the crimes were very serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u20	If Mr Dercksen has heard me say one thing, it is that we must come up with the best possible approach for these types. That is precisely why I am concerned about whether this measure by the rejecting observers is working, because it does not get some people on the radar, but only after they have committed their act. That would be the most horrible thing. Oh, come on. But I am glad that Mr Dercksen is saying with me: that tbs should be better. That's what I'm asking for. That is why, in three years' time, I am asking for the evaluation to come back to the question of the calculating types, which are therefore going to avoid the concern that we are still further away from home. I only see that as an encouragement to go further on that point. Let's stick together in that instead of putting me in a booth where I don't belong. All right, Mr. Chairman, we're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u21	You've been over your time, but you're gonna have to finish it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u22	I am very pleased that the Minister has promised that evaluation. I also hope, of course, that he will act earlier on previous signals. I very much look forward to the government's response to these points. For the Wzd and the Wvggz I will advise my group to vote in favour. For the Forensic Care Act, the working regime of the refusing observers weighs heavily. That is why I look forward to the reply of the Minister in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u23	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I give the floor to Mr Don.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u24	Congratulations also on behalf of our group, Mrs De Bruijn. I look forward to working with you. Mr. Chairman. Again, we also speak for the Party for Animals. We thank the directors for the careful and pleasant manner of answering our questions. The Minister has given a clear answer as to why the government has not opted for one mandatory care law. We understand the choices underlying the harmonization process. The time or, rather, the future review in 2022 will make it clear whether or not to opt for further integration of the laws. We'll wait and see. Without repeating: the SP sees the improvement of the position of the clients in this regard. Care, treatment, is leading and not the recording. We welcome the Minister's commitment to a sound import deadline, namely the introduction of the mandatory ggz Act and the Care and Force Act on 1 January 2020. Our proposal, but also that of other parties in this matter, is honoured by this commitment of the Minister. I have also heard the Minister say that he wants to involve the implementation field through action research, a comment made by Mr Schnabel. This is a better way of working than our proposed hotline. Thank you also to Mr Schnabel for this input. Our position on the announced repair legislation, scheduled this year, may be known. We welcome the Minister's commitment to broadening the scope of the various views on the professional interpretation of the role of the Wzd doctor. The Secretary of State shares our concern about waiting list problems in mental health care. The way in which the Secretary of State fulfils his role as system responsible in this regard gives us confidence. We also like to look at the expected results, the expected results promised during the summer holidays on this waiting list issue. Similarly, the way in which the Secretary of State looks at the problems of confused persons, or persons with confused behaviour. Now I have to do something with my iPad. Well, modern technology.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u25	And the clock is ticking!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u26	Yeah, but I'm at half my time. I'm gonna start over. Similarly, the way in which the Secretary of State looks at the problem of confused persons, with the approach of the switching team. That pleases us. We'd like to hear how the Secretary of State is going to follow up on the switching team when the term of that team expires this year. The Secretary of State has promised us to be a caravan from the Empire to reduce the compulsion, compulsory care and separation in the ggz, following the Dolhuys Manifest. That is an important commitment for us and for the client movement. Thank you. The serious disadvantage criterion has become clearer to us. It is a good thing that the Secretary of State wishes to highlight this criterion once again in the field of practice. The subject of willfulness among people with psychiatric illness remains a difficult subject to tackle, a subject that is not really clearly defined on paper; the question is whether it should be. It remains human work, in which the professional in relation to the client in matters of willfulness within the legal frameworks has to weigh up. That means support from the professional. Perhaps the Secretary of State would like to speak with me and the profession on this subject again. We thank the Minister for his commitments regarding the fulfillment of the function of the client confidant in the Care and Force Act. Funding will be centrally regulated. There will be a national professional profile quality framework for the implementation of the function of client confidant and there will be an appropriate organisational structure, which will be returned to us once again. Nice, Mr. Chairman, and thank you, Minister! Two questions remain open as far as I am concerned. I'm referring to the question about using the Argus data. With regard to the ROM data, of course, there has been a lot of stuff about privacy, because the Argus data shows how long the compulsion is applied. Regulations will have to be designed. My second question was to discuss two CIZ assessment procedures in consultation with the field of practice. Another little afterburner. I've got half a minute and I'm just gonna make it. I briefly mentioned one institution and two regimes, the Wzd regime and the regime under the compulsory ggz law. That means it's quite complex for the field of practice. Maybe the Minister can tell us something about that. I would like to conclude by expressing my concern at the national vacancies for psychiatrists and other professions, knowing that the Minister and the Secretary of State cannot open a look at professionals. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u27	Thank you very much, Mr Don. I give the floor to Mrs Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Respect for the ministers and the Secretary of State for taking up this field so quickly and thank you for the comprehensive explanation yesterday of all the questions from this Chamber. I would like to pay particular attention to what Mrs Bikker has also said, the reluctant observer. The proposal is now to request medical records so that you can involve them in the criminal proceedings. I wonder if that will have a lot of added value in practice in a moment's time. Old information says nothing or only limited about whether there was a mental disorder at the time the offence was committed. The doctors should be able to investigate shortly after committing the crime. They should be able to ask specific questions about this. If someone had a bad childhood or a psychosis five or ten years ago, that doesn't say anything about the condition they were in at the time of committing the crime, if proven; hence my question. We talked about this in detail yesterday. Several parties have asked for further consideration to be given to the proposal of Aleid Wolfsen, the Chairman of the Personal Data Authority, to see if there are any alternative options. I would ask the Minister to clarify the date on which he intends to put forward a proposal. Then the House of Representatives can involve this and other measures may be taken before this law enters into force. I'd like a response from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u29	Thank you, Mrs Wezel. I give the floor to Mr Schnabel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today, we conclude our discussions on three legislative proposals in which we are always talking about behaviour, which is always the starting point for the person concerned, which is or has brought serious harm to him or her, and very often for others. The special feature of this behaviour, I think, may be emphasized once again, is that it is not understandable in itself, that it is not correctable, not even by the person concerned, and that it is not usually found to be occasional either. That's a hypothesis. That's gotta prove it. You can say that based on the combination of what has happened or what could happen, also in the future, and the meaning that can have a hypothesis is drawn up with the idea: this cannot be ordinary behavior; this is something special, here is probably a mental disorder at work. That is actually true what we now call psychiatry started 500 years ago, with the idea: this is not normal; this is something very special and we have to look at it. Then it wasn't treatment, counseling or nursing. Then it was protection, security and storage. That's what it started with, locking up people who did things that, especially for early-stage urban societies, were very dangerous. For example, to start fires or to attack people on the market. In this kind of situation, intervention was started and there is the beginning of what we are now going to call ggz. Actually, that's still a core task of the ggz. I think it is very important to stress once again that it is not possible to think in the field of aid that this is actually an improper task. No, it's been the first job and it's part of it. The focus on mental illness is also on protecting against it. That is an important point, and this must also be made very clearly in the case of aid. For a long time, psychiatric hospitals were divided into quiet departments and restless departments. That was the basic criterion. Not what people had for diagnosis, but simply what behavior they showed. That has been the essence. Of course we are further on in that regard. Of course it is a good thing that today we are trying to put the emphasis on treatment, on ensuring that it cannot happen again and on ensuring that people can function better, not threaten others and not put themselves in trouble, but it remains important to see that aspect as an integral part of the ggz. You can say that today we see it as an ultimatum remedium. It always has been. In the past, people who were depressed were sent away saying that they weren't dangerous: we're not gonna do anything with that; that's not for us. It's important to hold on to that. If I look at what has changed, I see now, with the legislation now being presented, an effort to improve the legal certainty of all parties in that area, an improvement in the possibility of voluntary treatment or at least treatment, and above all, a strong point in the current proposals..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u31	Mr. Schnabel, I'm interrupting your speech. I follow you for a very large part, also looking at the history of psychiatry. Centuries going back, changing in the fifties and sixties when medication was introduced and there were opportunities to treat people differently, to help them and to make sure that they could take back their place in society. I refer to a very small point, which you did not mention so literally. That's the separation, isolation and isolation of people. Just drawing on my own experience: in the Netherlands the use of the separation and isolation is still commonplace. Fortunately, you see a shift to isolation in your own room, but it's still being done and used. I went to an English clinic in the nineties where there were no more separates and where that form of coercion was no longer used. In addition to restless clients, staff was simply put in place. That went sideways until the client in his own room calmed down. That's another way of treating and thinking. I am not saying that separation should never happen, but that sometimes there are other ways of thinking and treating it, and we sometimes carry the history, where we come from in our actions, and sometimes we have to ask the question: are we still doing it correctly? I would like to say that in addition to your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u32	I think that is an important point. It also has to do with that difference between countries. I've seen it myself in England, America and Italy. Often there are other uses, for example heavy medication, which we are a little more reluctant about. Or some things, which were always allowed in some countries, were not even allowed to be forced to do so. Or certain situations weren't officially visible. Anyway, I don't have to explain all that to you. You know that all happens. My point was just to make it clear that it is important that we see it as an integral task of the ggz to also ensure protection and security. That's an important fact. Sometimes there is a tendency to say that it does not belong to us, that it belongs to the police or to the judiciary, but it does not. It's always been part of it, and that's understandable given the nature of the condition. We have to note that the laws that are now before us go a number of ways beyond what we have had so far in legislation in this area. I was just trying to make it clear which points they were. The fact remains that you want to unite the incompatible. It is therefore never an ideal situation. In the discussion you sometimes notice that they are striving for this, but it is always a question of compromise, with a huge emphasis on procedures and care. And a tendency to exercise restraint, which I think is a very good point. Our task then is to look at the quality, feasibility and proportionality of legislation. There will be a permanent debate on what is the best solution, particularly with regard to the forms of protection and matters relating to treatment, to the interests of those involved and to the interests of other stakeholders. We must be honest and say: there is no best solution. There are at most less bad solutions or temporarily less bad solutions. A few speakers in the expert meetings sketched the picture of, as someone literally said, "crying out and starting over." That is actually a misunderstanding, because there is no guarantee that this will lead to a better result than we already had at the moment. Perhaps you should say that results from the past offer a guarantee for the future. Based on the history of insane legislation from 1841 onwards, we can see that every new law has become more complex, longer and more difficult to apply. And there is no reason to suppose that if we started again now after so many years of discussion and debate, it would be easy, better and there would be a simpler solution. I think it's an illusion to assume that. In this respect, I hope that we can reach the conclusion today to move forward. And I think that yesterday's debate and the promises made by the ministers will help us in this. I think it is important that we realise that what we are doing is a process of piecemal engineering. That's what it's about: step by step trying to make things better, through those AMvBs. Because we have asked very strongly to be careful that these AMvBs do not become their own enemy, that people get into trouble in their application. As you said yesterday, there is once again a debate on the issue of fixation, because some more explicit statements have been made about it. I think it is important to look very closely at its quality in this area. The opinion of the Personal Data Authority, chaired by Aleid Wolfsen, has been called for with great emphasis. Let's take that seriously. It doesn't stand in the way of what you're proposing right now, but it may mean an interesting variant or solution for the future for a very strongly felt problem around those rejecting observandi. In this context, I have made a comment on medical professional secrecy and its relativisation in some situations. It will also mean that we will continue to be confronted with additional legislation, and I am surprised to note that in the expert debate a number of times the word 'law of sweeping' was used for things that I actually felt would be mainly a 'law of sweeping', and that these would be rather fundamental questions. I don't think we should let it get so far that you're, as it were, changing all kinds of essential things. Then it must really be a serious debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u33	I have the impression that Mr Schnabel had finished what he had to say in his second term about the refusal of observers, and I would like to ask him a question about that. Our group was quite surprised yesterday at the turn of 180 degrees made by the D66 Group on this subject compared to the first term of this law in 2014. I couldn't sleep right away last night. You do that sometimes when you've been so busy, so I thought: let me use that time to see how Mrs Scholten contributed here four years ago about the refusing observers. If I may quote her, Mr President, she said: 'My group does not want to trivialise the problem of the refusal of observers, but this is a breach of a fundamental right as referred to in Article 10 of the ECHR and Article 8 of the Constitution'. I would have expected a little more clarification from Mr Schnabel on the question of why his group now, four years later, while some of the people who were in the group at the time, no longer believe that the proposal of the rejecting observers violates a fundamental right as laid down in Article 10 of the ECHR and Article 8 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u34	I slept fine, by the way, right away. That was the first thing I did, honestly, when I came into my room. So I haven't checked what someone who isn't here anymore has said about that. I think I tried yesterday to make it clear that in some situations you can put that into perspective. In fact, the way in which you are putting it now is perhaps quite indicative of what the whole debate has been drawing up over all these years: there is a difference in attitudes between people who look at this matter from a legal point of view, and people who look at it more from the point of view of aid and practice. I must say that from my past as a professor of clinical psychology, as a professor involved in mental health care, of course I look more from that side. That tension is in these laws. In that sense, my choice is a more pragmatic one, which does not mean that I would not support the principle, but that there are exceptional situations. These exceptional situations are also quantitative, although they have been somewhat lost in our discussions. When it comes to refusing observandi, we talk about completely different situations than when it comes to someone who is demented or someone who is mentally handicapped or someone who suffers from schizophrenia. These are completely different situations, including in the number of people involved and the dangers, the serious disadvantage they bring.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u35	Therefore, the rejecting observandi are also in the Forensic Care Act and not in the other two laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u36	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u37	I thought it was the task of the First Chamber to check the legal quality of laws in particular. D66 has always been a precursor to that. I read Mrs Scholten's speech back four years ago. That was a legally extraordinary and sound argument. She was really leading the way in the legal deciphering of those renegade observants. To go along with Mr Schabel's position to look from the ground: Mrs Scholten did so four years ago. I quote her again, but now I get it. The Council of State had serious objections. The Personal Data Authority, at the time still the Personal Data Protection College, had advised negatively. The Court of Justice had advised negatively and indicated that the workload of the Penitentiary Chamber in Arnhem would be too great with this proposal. The Dutch Order of Lawyers advised to delete the article and to place it in a separate law, because this was not sufficiently worked out in this law. The KNMG and the College of Attorneys General also advised negatively. All very pragmatic arguments not to share this proposal and to be critical of it in any case. I would like to ask Mr Schabel again once again, I hope that he will strive for a consistent line between his party and whether he does not need some more words and some more substantive arguments to explain why his party has turned 180 degrees in its views.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u38	For practical reasons. I think I made that clear. You say that we must take care of the legal quality. We must also pay attention to the feasibility, public support and proportionality. I have a view on this, which I have shared with my group. That view is clearly different than it was four years ago. That makes sense to me. That's a moving insight. That is also something that is not missing in your party, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u39	Not on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u40	Not on this subject. Well, that might be one of the problems you have with that. I think we should look very critically at the practical situation, as you yourself say. We must not say straight away that nothing is possible in this area. Look at the recent literature, too. I refer to the very critical article of Aart Hendriks last week in the Dutch Magazine for Medicine. He also said that on a number of points medical professional secrecy is certainly not absolute, although he tends to keep it very small and very limited. It is precisely in these situations, where, as you yourself say, the Forensic Care Act is concerned, that I would find it very important to apply this relativisation and to see how we can achieve the best results, with the least harm for those involved and for society as a whole. If that means that you have to make a sacrifice on a very fundamental point, I am inclined to say that we have to make that sacrifice, with all the hesitations and all the restraint that goes with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u41	Mrs Barth, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u42	Mr Schnabel does not mention that this also represents a sacrifice for the rule of law. It is still a question of whether this provision will survive if a case is ever brought before the European Court of Human Rights. My specific question is as follows. Mr Schnabel referred to public support. I just mentioned all these organizations. I quote Mrs Scholten once again in the debate four years ago, which clearly indicated that there is no social support. Lawyers advise against it. The Council of State advises against it. Doctors advise against it. What kind of social support do you call upon?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u43	Mr. President, if I may? That goes on...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u44	If you can keep it brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u45	Yes, I can. It goes beyond simply these organizations. They themselves have also changed their views in many respects over time. As I pointed out yesterday, it is very important for you to be involved in this situation, so that we really talk about the Forensic Care Act and not about the Wvggz, taking into account the acceptance of society and the importance of protecting society from things that can be particularly dangerous and bring great disadvantages. Only recourse to principles doesn't work. The greater principle is the protection of society. That is something we can differ on, and it seems that we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u46	In addition, I would like to say that most of the actors who have expressed this criticism have not changed their position. Mr Schnabel pointed out that his personal background and the personal background of Mrs Scholten might lead to a different interpretation. However, I would like to point out that these are also party positions in which D66 has always stressed the importance of protecting civil rights, particularly in terms of restricting these rights by the public authorities. Here we are talking about a very precarious vulnerable group of citizens who need this protection. In this context, D66 proposed an amendment to delete this part from the law when examining this bill. In the end, they also voted against this part of the law. Mr Schnabel can easily say "we think differently." It indicates that this is very difficult and fundamental in his party. Mr Wolfsen has outlined that alternative precisely to show that it is not necessary. This also means something for the necessity and proportionality of the infringement of that medical professional secrecy. If that study shows that this would be a very workable model, is D66 prepared to say: are we no longer supporting the break-up of medical professional secrecy in order to obtain medical information from non-observators?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u47	I think I made it clear in my first speech yesterday that I am very interested in Mr Wolfsen's proposal. We discussed this together with him, and we asked him to put it on paper in the debate at the time. I think it's a very important thing. I have therefore asked the Minister to take this explicitly. When the time comes, we shall see what decision we will take. In any case, I think that Mr Wolfsen's proposal deserves further study, and then it really is very serious. I asked for that yesterday and today. In that sense, I think we can agree on that. I am not going to go into questions like that, because first we have to see how it will go, what form it will take and whether it can. You noticed yesterday in the debate that there was an immediate debate on the extent to which this is in line with the ECHR and so on. I can't see that right now. I don't think any of us can do that right now. You simply need good advice on this and then we will see what we decide on it in the second instance after the House of Representatives has taken a decision on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u48	I understand that this is an important proposal for Mr Schnabel that deserves further study. Yesterday the debate revealed that it could perhaps be applied in an additional way, in addition to the regulation we are talking about. If it were to work, would Mr Schnabel have the balance of interests of breaking the obligation of medical professional secrecy on the one hand and protecting society on the other be different?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u49	I feel that I did not see that as an additional matter at all yesterday, but that I said quite emphatically that I think this is a very interesting and important proposal. I also asked the Minister to take it seriously, but this is, of course, separate from the law that we have to deal with today. Since there is no legislative proposal at that point, there is still no way to say otherwise than that this could be one of the things at the point of what I call piecemal engineering, which means that you are working to further improve it. We cannot make any real statements about this at the moment, can we? I made it very clear yesterday that as far as I am concerned, if that is what you want to hear, it is a preferred line of advice at the moment on such a sensitive point as the rejecting observers. I think we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u50	Finally, Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u51	I wouldn't call it Piecemeal Operating.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u52	I said engineering.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u53	I would not call it that either, because this is about a very fundamental approach to the problem of how to deal with the refusal of observers, how to obtain that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u54	But one doesn't rule out the other, Mr. Chairman. This was the last thing I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u55	Thank you, Mr. Schnabel. I give the floor to Mrs De Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the three directors for their detailed reply last night. It is clear that the legislative process has taken a long time and that the field rightly calls for certainties; certainties that have to be shaped and trusted when the new procedures are being worked out. This confidence is certainly not there at the moment in a number of places. I have already mentioned some of these processes in my first term, such as the scaling up multidisciplinary roadmap, the extension of the municipal tasks and how to deal with the mandatory care in home situations. Ensuring the necessary cooperation between the different disciplines and organising information processes among themselves is also a challenge. Madam President, my list is not exhaustive, but this means that a very careful implementation process is needed, in which clear procedural and working arrangements can be made. I am therefore pleased to hear that the directors have paid a great deal of attention to this and indicate that they need a somewhat longer deadline, and that we are now starting from 1 January 2020. This will therefore allow us to include the amendments we discussed and the AMvBs in that implementation process in good time. For that, my compliments. I believe that we have also made good agreements on the evaluation and its content. The points are listed; I am not going to repeat them here. I think that was complete, for which I thank you. I think that Mrs Barth's addition to evaluating the laws every five years after these two years is a very good addition. Thank you for that suggestion, Mrs Barth. Furthermore, I am satisfied with the explanation given by Minister De Jonge in connection with my case about the fall and the serious disadvantage criterion that can or cannot be attributed to it. In his explanation he has given room for customization and that is something that should always be possible in the care. I would also like to thank you for that. I also agree with what the Minister said last night about adjusting the procedure surrounding that care plan. This shows that he is aware of the feasibility of the Wzd and we await the amendment with interest. I asked Secretary of State Blokhuis what preparation will still be needed for the municipalities, because questions have also been asked to me. He has indicated that this is being mapped out at the moment, and I would ask him to inform us more about it as soon as he has more insight into it. I'm getting to the point of the refusing observandi. Yesterday, on behalf of the VVD, I indicated that we must do everything in our power to prevent the recurrence of serious crimes, crimes which are deeply affecting the lives of the victims and their environment, and which seriously affect the sense of social security. We have therefore called for a range of measures, including, where appropriate, the possibility of imposing TBs after the sentence has become irrevocable. However, I have also made it clear that this is an addition to the possibility now contained in the Forensic Care Bill for the VVD Group and to Article 37a of the Criminal Code, which provides the possibility of that measure for the refusal of observers. Why do we think it is important that it is an additional measure, which does not replace it? In any case, I think it is important that suspects should be given as much clarity as possible during their criminal proceedings as possible about the measure to be taken and the measure to be taken. It is also laid down in treaties that this should be clarified as soon as possible. That is why we also consider the completeness of the reporting for the imposition of penalties to be very important. The Minister said yesterday that this could mean, for example, taking into account whether or not tbs are imposed on the level of the penalty. Yesterday we saw all sorts of cases of people coming by and reasons why people would refuse to cooperate in the PJ report. One of the reasons was that suspects have the fear that they would then cooperate in their own conviction. I would also like to add another case, namely the case of someone who is completely insane. So if you would always do that PJ report after a conviction, as I saw in the suggestions here, that would also mean that a suspect who is completely insanityable could first get jail time and then go on the journey but have to wait and see if it will eventually be converted into TBs. That would be an undesirable situation for my group. We are therefore satisfied with the commitment made by the Minister to seriously examine whether additional TBs can be imposed on the measure if necessary afterwards. This could, for example, be an important addition in situations where there is simply no prior personal data available about the client. Perhaps the total palette can be expanded further, which hopefully gives us more possibilities than we currently have. I'm waiting for the results of that investigation. In addition to what Mrs Bikker has just asked, I would like to ask when the Minister expects to have completed that investigation and to be able to inform us about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u57	Think of your time, Mrs. De Bruijn. You've been over it for almost a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u58	One last sentence, if you don't mind. Finally, I would like to express my appreciation to the rulers for having read through these complex dossiers in a short time. Their answer in any case creates the confidence that they will work well with it and that they will have a heart for the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u59	Thank you, Mrs De Bruijn. I give the floor to Mrs Barth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to join those last compliments from Mr De Bruijn. I would like to thank the rulers very much for their answers. They were solid and lively, passionate and largely convincing as far as we are concerned. I want to start with the Law care and coercion. My group very much welcomes the commitments made by the Minister on this law, in particular on the evaluation. It will be extensive and thorough. The concerns we have mentioned will be taken into account. It is also very nice that the Minister is prepared to repeat the evaluation after the first two years, every five years. We think it is very important to keep the finger on the wrist, with all the vulnerable themes that we have shared and which arise mainly from the split that was introduced in the BOPZ Act. The Minister did not go so far as to comment on all our arguments against this split. Nor did his predecessor, so in that sense the line is consistent. To be honest, I do understand that, because if the Minister did, I think he would be so bold as to think that we actually have a very strong point. And then you're stuck with the bill, with the Wzd. So I fully understand that the Minister is taking that line, but only for a little while. There are two points I would like the Minister to feel a little challenged about. He said that it's about 300,000 people a year and that that's a lot. Indeed, that is what I said in my first term. I also did not argue that everyone should always go to court, but at least once, when you cross the bridge, for example, in determining willlessness. In addition, the nuance about the gbgb group, which was put very sharply in the second evaluation and which has been translated into the division of that the whole mental disability care and the whole elderly care are gbgb and that that group does not occur in the ggz. So that's not true. It's much more nuanced. There are people in mental disability care and in the care of the elderly who are able to express resistance and the gbgb group is also present in the ggz. We are convinced that the current legislative framework is not entirely satisfactory for that group and would greatly appreciate it if the Minister would be prepared to outline a future perspective in which he would like to keep his finger on the pulse along these two points in the evaluation, in order to see whether the GGB group is not going to fall apart, particularly in the ggz. And what are we going to do with the people in the care and enforcement sector who can actually resist? Mr. Chairman. Then the implementation. We have mixed feelings about that. On the one hand, we are extremely happy that the rulers are taking the time for implementation. We believe that this is also important, because we are dealing with extensive and complex laws. A lot of people have to work differently. At the same time 1-1-20; the field is jumping to apply the possibility to outpatient, forced care. To have to wait another two years is quite a long time. How do the rulers deal with that? Do they see that dilemma themselves? Are they going to allow experiments? Are they going to allow institutions to experiment, in anticipation of the law, with forced care in practice, to possibly incorporate those experiments back into the AMvB? We like to hear it. Then the Law mandatory ggz. We are very pleased with the commitment made by the Secretary of State about the talks he is going to have with the police, the emphasis on combating the stigma of mental disorders and, above all, the discussion he will have with the Minister of J and V on the E33 notifications, the use of that code and the importance of nuance. We await the letter in suspense. We are also pleased with his commitment to the development of outpatient capacity in the secure places. I can summarize it in this way: the consultation with the field continues and I, Secretary of State, am on top of it. Our specific question is: would the Secretary of State be prepared to take that point into account in the evaluations, both in two years' time and afterwards? Without sufficient capacity, this law goes wrong in practice, whereas this law deserves it so much that it goes well. Then, Chairman, the youth. We were given a brief talk about the development of this separate law, but I would like to stress that we do not need a separate law on forced care for minors. We would much rather see the rulers incorporate this into the existing legislation, otherwise the fragmentation will become even greater. That fragmentation is already there between Wzd and the mandatory ggz Act. If we're gonna get the kids out of there, it's gonna be real box thinking. Our heartfelt plea is therefore to join the existing legislation if the legal status of minors needs further tightening. Mr. Chairman. I have a few practical questions for the Secretary of State. If the medical authorization is requested, who will have the power of perseverance: the medical director or the prosecutor? If a medical director wants a care authorization and the D.A. is overloaded and busy and there's no prosecutor available, what's gonna happen? Can a medical director like that go through? I also have a question about the reimbursement of forced youth care in the ggz. It's decentralised to the municipality. We all know the discussions with the municipalities about how to finance them. What will happen to the forced care applied to a young person if the municipality has not bought in? Then who pays the bill? Mr. Chairman. Then the Forensic Care Act. The Minister talked about the powers and said: I'm doing some sort of purchasing. Well, you do real buying! In that purchase you can also arrange everything, but that requires clear proportions. In the reply, the government indicated that the application of the minister's powers would be very reluctant and not really necessary. Now, unfortunately, I saw the Minister shoot into the defensive last night, and that made me a little worried. I would appreciate it if this Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, were not to say to him that he does have those powers as a stick behind the door, but that he does not intend to use them in any way. Then there are my questions about the exchange of information on the basis of the report of the PG at the Supreme Court. They haven't been answered yet, but I'd like to hear that. Is the Minister going to fill that gap in implementation, because the mandatory ggz Act will not enter into force until 1-1-20, the Forensic Care Act as of 1-1-19, and that data exchange will actually be highly desirable as of tomorrow on the basis of good legislation? My question on the construction of the forensic FACT teams has not yet been answered by the Minister. I like to hear that. Then the rejecting observandi. There are still a lot of questions about this, as far as we are concerned. I hope you will give me the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u61	For that, you have half a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u62	I'm gonna try to do it staccato, Mr. Chairman. What we lack from this Minister for Legal Protection is care in the formulation of his arguments. I found that yesterday the Minister expressed a great deal that every refusing observer is already an established perpetrator. But they're suspects, and sometimes they're innocent. So there should also be a disorder, while the Minister exudes that there is a disorder and that something needs to be done about it. I would like to encourage the Minister, if he wishes to live up to his position as Minister for Legal Protection, to choose his words very carefully, because we attach great importance to this. Suspects have a right not to cooperate. That's a fundamental right. With this measure, the State basically says that if you invoke that one fundamental right, you will be compromised in your other fundamental right, privacy. Isn't that rubbing? I would very much like to hear more from the Minister about this abrasion. I'd like to hear more than just the defense that it's so important that people with severe disorder don't come back into the street untreated. It is obvious that this is important. It is a question of whether this is the best way to do so and whether this measure is compatible with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. What is the Minister going to do when the first refusal to observe this happens to the European Court and the Minister goes down? The First Chamber really has a job to look at that very critically. Then there's the youth files. Can I count on the fact that if this measure continues, I can count in this house too, so there is a good chance that the medical records of minors will always remain closed in all circumstances? That is entirely in line with how we deal with the issue, because the files remain closed and the court cases take place behind closed doors. Can we expect the youth files to remain closed if this law is passed? I asked the Minister yesterday for alternatives to the measure. He's coming up with a bill to extend the observation period. This should significantly reduce the number of cases of refusing observants, which are not subject to pro-justitia reporting, right? And therefore also the need for the use of opening the medical file? The reply shall state other measures which could also be helpful. I asked the Minister what they were. How does the Minister view the application of this measure from the Forensic Care Act in a chain of dealing with non-observants? An escalation ladder, if you like. I would like to hear from the Minister how he intends to give serious hands and feet to that ultimum remedium in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u63	Thank you, Mrs Barth. I give the floor to Mrs Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Today, at last, this complicated legislation is coming to an end. I congratulate the rulers for having been involved in this matter in such a short time. We have received good answers, also in detail, to concerns that live in this house, but also in the CDA Group. Much has been said in detail. We agree with each other on this. I have said this in the first term too. However, although care and compulsion seem to be contradictory concepts, they are clearly interrelated. That is why the great care with which we introduce legislation is in the utmost interest of all concerned. Mr. Chairman. In the written preparation, we asked in detail why the various legislation was adopted. It was good to hear from the Minister that the target groups are different and that complete integration is therefore very difficult. At the same time, the ruler spoke of an intermediate step. He used Mr Schnabel's words: good should not stand in the way of the better. Do I understand correctly that the Minister at least does not rule out the possibility of a framework law for this law in the case of evaluation? Mr. Chairman. The Minister also stated that on the basis of the experience the AMvBs and the further amendment of the law for the summer will be submitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u65	For the record, I did not say that good should not get in the way, but that it should become the enemy of good, as the proverb says. It's not that important, it's for the record.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u66	Thank you very much. It's probably the short night's sleep, Mr. Schnabel. Mr. Chairman. The Minister indicated that on the basis of the experience the AMvBs and also the further amendments to this law will be submitted before the summer. That is fine, because this leads to greater flexibility. But it is also a matter of immediate concern, namely whether this does fully justice to all the care with which we have accompanied this legislative process in this house. I also welcome the commitment that there will be only one AMvB per law. Mr. Chairman. The introduction and careful introduction have also been mentioned. I understand that at the time of the introduction of the AMvBs, I will say it at home, and that all those involved are still being consulted. That's what I'm assuming. I didn't get a response to our question about the flowcharts. We have asked for this in written preparation, but several other spokesmen have also asked for it. The flow charts will make it easier and will make it easier to understand which procedures should be followed at what time. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to the evaluation. All the points that need to be addressed in the evaluation have been discussed. I didn't get up yesterday, but I wonder if I said that in the first round too, whether the evaluation takes into account the costs, financing and administrative Burdens. Is it also being considered whether there are always sufficient resources throughout the chain to ensure that the legislation is sufficiently effective? Mr. Chairman. I have taken note of everything that has been said about the refusing observers. I do not think it is appropriate to postpone the legislation on this issue at this time. I do think that we should carry out a careful investigation into the best possibilities. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the safety of caregivers in the provision of outpatient care. I said something about this in the first period. That requires a whole different piece of security than usual. Several spokesmen have spoken about this. We're not gonna settle that in this law. I believe that this will have to be dealt with in collective agreements, collective agreements or anywhere else. Therefore, make sure that sufficient expression is given in the AMvBs that those responsible for this assistance are very careful. Mr. Chairman. I think there has been a very careful process here. We can discuss all the details for hours to come, but I think that at least what is here puts the patient at the heart of it. That's actually what we want. Force is good, but it can only be applied if it is at the service of those involved themselves and society as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u67	Thank you, Mrs Oomen. I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u68	Mr President, thank you. Mr Oomen's words continued to resonate with me for a while. She closed with: compulsion is good. I would say: compulsion is an inevitable evil, which is sometimes impossible to cope with. For me, this is also the spirit of the debate we have had with each other. I thank the rulers for the way in which they have determined their choices and their position. I am very pleased that we are having a debate in which we are talking about the core questions of concern, about the dilemmas that lie in it. It is clear that it is close to all of us. I repeat the question that Mr Don asked: how do we deal with the fact that different regimes are going to work side by side in the field? One of my questions was whether it's true that it has to be personal and personal. Isn't it actually locational? The Minister said very emphatically: no, it's really personal. That, of course, makes my other question much more pressing. I have heard that there is a commitment that the subject of the problem before us will at least be reflected in the evaluation, that is to say, how it will work. I still have a few more specific questions. If so, does this mean that, for example, a vg or a psychogeriatric institution must now appoint a physician-director to play the role if a coercive treatment is to take place in the context of the Wvggz? What is the Minister doing about the fact that there are too few psychiatrists and certainly too few psychiatrists who also want to work in the VG? In other words: how workable is it for the field if it has to work with multiple regimes? So how exactly do they shape it? The criterion of law is a little complicated because the medical-psychiatric diagnosis and expertise, especially in the field of overlap, are very complicated. The Minister also undoubtedly knows that there is still too little psychiatric knowledge in vg-care when it comes to how to perform psychiatric diagnostics and how to recognise a disorder in a vg-population. If the Minister insists that it is a person's next legal system, the question is how he will then work with the fields of work in plural form in order to make this workable. On the one hand, we do not want to make it too difficult and complicated, but we do want to see a subsequent legal system, which is applied as purely as possible and also in a workable way. Perhaps it would be useful if the Minister promised that he would work with the field in, for example, the main agreements to make it work in a good way. I have heard a commitment from the Secretary of State to include in the evaluation the reduction of coercive measures. I think it is an important point for us to have a systematic view of this. Unfortunately, I will leave the Minister for Legal Protection to rest, but my colleague Tineke Strik will undoubtedly make this right. I would also like to ask the Minister of Health for a concrete commitment to consult with the field, for example in the main agreements, to prevent that army of external advisers and to make concrete agreements so that this advisory role can be properly fulfilled. Thank you for the debate as a whole. We look forward to another nice year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u69	Thank you very much, Mr Ganzevoort. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to express my thanks to all three rulers for their reply. In particular, the leaders of Health have made it very explicit that coercion is the ultimate remedium. That's reassuring for us. They have also made it clear that this applies not only to legislation, but also to lower regulation and also to implementation practice. I am sure that, as a Chamber, we will adhere to it and trust now that this is the guiding principle when it comes to putting it into practice. I therefore assume that good agreements will be made with the field on the phasing-out and as far as possible limiting the compulsion. I also assume that the field will then say that this means that it must be able to do so with sufficient facilities and with sufficient capacity and training. I hope for fruitful consultations in which both sides reach good agreements. I do owe you some answers. This is particularly true with regard to what has been promised on the question of denying immediate access to justice in the application of coercion outside of admission situations. It is, of course, about whether this is justified in the light of Article 5 of the ECHR, but I have also indicated that it is also a crazy distinction with the other coercive situations where, for example, recording is on the agenda or you are talking about compulsory mental health care. Then it's weird that you make this distinction when you just let go of the location and put the person first. Why, then, is that distinction and how is it to explain human rights and make them responsible? Then there is the issue of exclusion from appeal. I would have expected the Minister for Legal Protection to deal with this, but it turns out to be with the Minister of the United States of America. I would like to give the Minister or the Secretary of State a reply to the arguments which the government itself has always put forward for the importance of appeal in these situations. It is a question of restricting freedom rights and violating physical integrity. The nature and duration of the care authorisation also make it ideal for an appeal. Cassatie is, of course, much more limited, because it is a procedural review and it is not up to you to decide whether the substantive balance has been made right. So I'd like an answer to that, too. I would also like the Minister for Legal Protection to be aware of this from the point of view of his coordinating responsibility. With regard to legal aid, the Minister for Legal Protection indicated that he had a responsibility. He said that this is part of a more general issue. The Van der Meer Committee will, of course, look at this in its entirety. I would like to point out to the Minister that these are the most precarious situations. Force is being exercised, so freedom rights are being restricted, by the government towards the most vulnerable group of citizens we have, and they cannot stand up to it on their own. There must therefore be sufficient attention to this. I would like to ask both directors to include in the evaluation the question of the extent to which the legal protection of patients is adequately regulated and, therefore, to see how the exclusion of the right to appeal and the legal aid makes the legal situation sufficiently strong. Then I'll get to the refused observer. I have to say with a number of colleagues that there is evidently little attention or seems to be paid to the fundamental issue of the opening up of medical professional secrecy. It's quick about making society safe. Yeah, we all do. Let's make that clear here. That's a priority for everyone here. It is about whether the implications of this method to achieve that are well thought out and whether it is really necessary to do it this way. Is that proportional? That, of course, makes a great deal of difference to the final test of the fundamental rights we have. If there are other possibilities, this road should be closed. I'd like to get a clearer response to that. I do not see it as two complementary arrangements. It's choosing one model or another. If that is different, I would like a response from the Minister on how he would see it. It is actually a bit crazy, I must say, when you look at parliamentary history. In 2012 there were also a lot of objections in the Lower House. It was also said: go develop alternatives. Here, a number of years ago, this seemed to be the major breaking point. It is strange that we have not come so far with this and that we now need to get an alternative model from the authority. Okay, that's right now. But let us make use of moving insight and actually study it well. I would also like to hear the Minister's undertaking that we will get that comprehensive note before 1 October, in which the investigation of the WODC can indeed be involved. I would also like the evaluation to address the question of the situations in which this regulation has been used, what the case law has so far been, and what the government is currently looking at this regulation, if of course the law is passed. Then I'll get to the implementation at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u71	Do you think about your time, Mrs. Strik?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u72	Yes, I have one more point. That's the implementation. The Minister for Legal Protection says that the Wfz can be introduced as of 1 January 2019, while the other two will be introduced one year later. Maybe he can go into more detail about how this works out in practice with the coherence between these laws, because of course there must also be enough regular ggz places. The D.A.'s office indicated that it still needs a lot of implementation time. To what extent is there sufficient consultation with the field? I would say: determine the time when it is really ready for careful implementation and for good consistency with the other two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. The rulers have asked for a 15-minute suspension. Is that enough? Then I shall suspend the sitting until 11.20 a.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u74	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Members of your Chamber for the contributions made during the second term of this debate, in which, as in the first period, a thorough and in-depth exchange of views on the three laws before us was held. Yesterday, in the contributions of the various groups, we heard that everyone actually believes that the legislation in question represents a serious improvement in terms of reducing forced care 'no, unless', as an ultimatum remedium in terms of strengthening the legal protection of clients, in terms of the scope for action of employees and also in terms of the protection of society. These are important steps forward. At the same time, we had an exchange of views during the first period on the hesitations and reserves that we also feel. They deserved and deserve a place in our discussion not only yesterday and today, but also in the coming years, in the further development of the legislation in the AMvBs and the regulations and also in the implementation. It remains a joint quest, one might say, for a good balance between strengthening the legal protection of people on the one hand and paying attention to the feasibility of legislation on the other. That was the case these days, and with that search we must also continue in the coming years to make the AMvBs and the arrangements, in the implementation and in the evaluation. It has also been said again: to make good better without making the better the enemy of good. I would like to answer the questions by group in a moment. I do not think that I am going to remind you of the commitments you have made, because we are repeating ourselves very often. For the sake of time, I don't want to do that. In fact, I would like to go straight to the answer to the questions that remain. Mr Van Dijk of the SGP Group asked for a more detailed appreciation of the Committee of the Regions, which is a wonderful word which is widely used especially in the First Chamber and I therefore attach great importance to using it once again from the recommendations contained in the opinion of the CCE. We said a few things about this yesterday. When do you have to use that outside expert? Don't make it crazy. Do it if it is really necessary, but don't let it be an unnecessary hoop where the practice has to jump through, so that what Mr Ganzevoort says doesn't happen: that little army of external experts. And so that what Mr Schnabel said does not happen either, namely that we are putting together an unenforceable law. So that we actually do what Mrs De Bruijn says, that is, no more than necessary. So basically: if we do not succeed in reducing the maximum period, which is six months of a forced measure. That could be a moment when someone else can think with it. Then who's the other one? Then it is very good, for example, to let that be another institution that has the same experience. I'd like to take a friendly look at the CCE's advice. I will also talk to them to design the external expertise in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u76	Thank you for that commitment. That's right, I'm hoping for some sprouting. As the CCE says, for less radical measures, limit external advice to, for example, annual and also aggregated. I hope the Minister will take this seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u77	Yes, but if you have heard me correctly, I went a little further, namely: do it only in those cases, not individually, not annually, not at team level or at institution level, where the institution's own care plan does not allow for the reduction of forced care within the legal deadline. So that's a little less. Mr. Chairman. The next question was about euthanasia. We said a number of things about this yesterday. Euthanasia is really a different issue than forced care. Euthanasia does not fall under the care as it can be counted under the Health and Force Act. The execution practice as you describe it is, of course, tested by the RTE. I would like to go back to the question of whether this is sufficient, namely in the evaluation of the Euthanasia Act. I am supposed to say here on the other side of the House of Commons, which I also like to say out loud once in a while, to at least prepare a cabinet response to that evaluation before the summer. In this context, I will also formulate the follow-up research mission announced in the coalition agreement on the report of the Schnabel Committee. I think it is a good thing that I return to the content of your question in that specification. Because you are actually asking: should the testing practice of the RTEs extend to this part of the implementation practice? I would like to return to that question in that broader specification. If that's okay with you, it'll be for the summer and in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u78	Thanks for that commitment, too. It is very good to take it into account in that broader context. My point remains this, but you do not need to go further. I have here the definition of care in the Law care and coercion for me. In my opinion, that includes everything, after all: treatment, nursing, involuntary care and so on. I think it's also about administering sedating medication to make it impossible to resist euthanasia. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u79	There is a great temptation to deal with this, but I have the feeling that we will have a bit of that discussion. I do not think that is sufficiently careful. So I would like to return to that in writing. I would then like to discuss this with you, as often as you like.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u80	Thank you for the commitment: care first in this dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u81	Through the chairman, eh, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u82	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijk mentioned a number of hesitations about the administrative burden. He reiterated his suggestion that we should not proceed to the vote until the Adaptation Act is there to do something about the administrative burden and the feasibility. I would like to make a few comments. I think that with the commitments I have made quite precisely on the adaptation law that I will come up with, I have reasonably been able to remove the hesitations about feasibility, given the proposal before us. As for the hesitation you have about the clarity of the field, I think that the field has more clarity when you vote on these proposals, also in the light of the changes announced. If you are hesitant about whether this law provides for all these situations, I would nevertheless like to refer you to Plato's quote that you yourself have mentioned. We cannot make laws in this house that provide for all situations and that are always best for everyone in all situations. It remains about the summary that I have given myself and which in fact all the groups have recognized. Is this legislative package now a significant improvement for people? I would think so. For people who work in care? I would think so. There is more room for action, but also more guidance; that is both in this law. More protection for society? I would think so. Of course, the SGP is ultimately about its own judgment, but I would think that it can vote with confidence, given its own input. The 50PLUS group is actually asking about the embarrassment of action. Mrs Baay asked this: how can we overcome this embarrassment of action, which is caused by the caregiver and the caregiver? I would think that precisely this law, which also provides a handle to ensure that measures of a compulsive nature can be taken in the outlying setting, can provide guidance and thus, precisely, break through the embarrassment of action. In the current situation, this guidance is lacking and recording is actually the only way to apply coercion. Of course, everything that should be seen as forced care is happening, including in the outpatient setting, but without legal protection for clients. In short: this law offers so much more guidance than the current implementation practice that we really help the field if we adopt this law. Then I'll turn to Mrs Bikker's questions. In the first instance, I did not go into the explanatory memorandum and the full text, and I apologize for that. You were not the only one asking, Mrs Oomen just repeated it to get there. I agree. However, it is not possible to rewrite a explanatory statement which should then be deemed to be part of the legislative process. It can't be. Once your hammer has fallen, this legislative process will be completed. I can provide a comprehensive and self-explanatory explanation, because that is not the explanatory statement now. Moreover, I do not have the illusion that this is now going to give the perfect clarity. That is why I would also warmly welcome the suggestion made by Mrs Oomen to use the flowcharts she mentioned yesterday in the implementation. I didn't answer that question either. Fortunately, we have some time to do so in order to clarify in the field what can be done in what situation and what steps need to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u83	Very briefly. The Minister agrees to make an explanation, and I am pleased about that. When can we expect it? By the date of 2020, I assume?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u84	Yeah, anyway. I was shocked by the thought of you wanting to have that next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u85	Through the chairman, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u86	Apologies. Mr President, I would like to point out to the honourable Member, Mrs Bikker, that, in response to her questions, I could say that it is certainly before the date of introduction. I was afraid you'd want that next week. We are now going to type hard on the AMvBs, because that is really the first work we have to do, and on the adaptation law, because we both want to have it in the Chamber before the summer. Mr President, with your permission, I will continue with Mrs Bikker's other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u87	I'm glad to see you're doing it, though, through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u88	It's possible, sure, sure. I'd like to be encouraged, as I said in the first term. Mrs. Bikker referred to her dorm. If you put up a note with the text that the bathroom is cleaned together, that is not necessarily the way to make the appointment clear. I don't recognize any of that. There's something else here. It is precisely in order to prevent this that the healthcare plan clearly sets out what people can expect. You have to name the roles of the Wzd doctor and the care institution both, because it has to be clear in an outpatient setting who can be contacted, precisely in order to avoid the situation of that dorm. It is also regulated in this way, as I said yesterday in the compulsory ggz Act. It is precisely where there is an outpatient setting that the need to do it in this way is even greater. You can't invest it with either of them, so the care plan needs to define exactly who's doing what. Then I come to Mr Don's questions. He asked me to discuss the procedures that the CIZ has to go through with the field in a good way. They are new tasks, so it is important to keep the field well hooked. I would like to take that to heart. He also asked me to reflect on the two regimes, because they can be complex for the field. I had a little debate on this with Mr Ganzevoort yesterday because he asked for it too. Of course, I shall return to Mr Ganzevoort's line of argument that this law is a client-related law. We say this in such a way as to indicate that it is no longer locational. Mr Ganzevoort asked whether or not the institution determines which care is provided and in which of the two regimes there is work. That's a bit of implementation practice, but that doesn't make the law less client-related. That's one. Secondly, how do these institutions do that? Do they now have to equip themselves for both regimes? The vast majority of the institutions, as well as the vast majority of clients, are quite clearly divided into which legal regime applies. I have promised Mrs Barth that I will make sure that the inspection is carried out properly, that I will give the client-confidence person a role in that by letting him keep a finger on the wrist or using the good regime. I would also like to include that point in the evaluation. I hear your concern, but I think it's gonna be a lot easier in practice. But we need to know that. Then there is a limited part of the clients where multi-problem is involved and an even more limited part of the clients, 0.7% I've been told, changes the dominant basis. Only a limited number of institutions have been equipped to properly serve both target groups. By the way, we can see that in this case it can really be problematic. We all know the casusism, because it comes with some regularity in the media. I would like to undertake to talk to the field and see if we can clarify when the implementation, in the AMvBs, will take place. What we can also do in the implementation, which is perhaps even more practical, is to ensure adequate transit when a client in one institution cannot be properly served and really has to go to another institution. But there's got to be room for that. There are clients for which there is hardly any supply, simply because the prevalence of such a disorder is so incredibly low that no supply has been developed. So what do we do? Then what is the way of doing things? I really need to talk to the disabled sector about this, perhaps independently of the AMvB and regardless of the implementation. In fact, it is virtually separate from this legislation, but there is simply a mismatch between the available offer and the complexity of disturbances that some clients have. I will deal with a number of other questions raised by Mr Ganzevoort later, but this will reflect on Mr Don's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u89	Perhaps you can deal with this point right away, then we were right. The group in which there is a clear double problem is perhaps limited. I can imagine. But does the Minister agree that there is a great deal of untreated and undiagnosed psychiatric problems, particularly in the FG sector, because there is limited development of expertise? That's the first question. I think that the prevalence is much greater, but that it is not always recognized. Therefore, the first question is: how can you help the field develop that better? Next is the limiting question: are the vg institutions forced to take over the entire Wvggz regime, including the medical director, the psychiatrist and everything that goes with it? Or is there a smarter sleeve that can be adjusted?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u90	In reply to your first question, I do recognize the picture that, within a number of vg institutions, the knowledge of psychiatry is still insufficient to adequately identify these problems, and I think that your concern under this law is to determine which legislative regime has to prevail. Hence the three safety valves, as I said yesterday in the direction of Mrs Barth. In addition, we need to work with the sector on knowledge on this issue. I actually want to do that within the framework of the quality disability care programme. The other side is also true: the knowledge of psychiatry about lvb and vb is not particularly developed, but that is often less problematic because the target group rarely reaches the sector. The other way around, of course, that is the case. But we certainly have a lack of knowledge over and over again and that is why there are those very classic, hard dividing lines between the sectors. Fortunately, you see in the Youth Act that they are slowly beginning to disappear. In fact, we should also settle this in adult care. There are a number of institutions that provide care for all those target groups. These institutions, of course, have to look for both the Care and Force Act, as I said yesterday, as well as the mandatory ggz Act. If you want to be able to provide forced care in both laws to those three target groups, you will have to equip yourself to the full. If you want to provide care under the mandatory ggz Act, you will of course have to have a medical director, because he has legally assigned tasks. The other way around: if you want to provide forced care within the framework of the Care and Force Act, you must have a Wzd doctor, albeit with the extension as we discussed it. I do think that it could also coincide in that type of institution, that it could be one and the same person, just as dependent on the extent to which it is equipped.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u91	I am not very concerned about the institutions that do both. I think they have both qualities in the house.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u92	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u93	I am concerned about those institutions that are forced by a specific client in a concrete situation to provide care that is actually forced to care in the context of the Wvggz and are not equipped for that purpose, or vice versa. At that point, it might be good to use the equipped institutions as a knowledge centre to support others. That helps the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u94	But let me tell you what I just said to Mr Don. Part of this, increasing knowledge, will have to be addressed within the framework of the quality care programme for disabled people. This part is actually more of an implementation issue, albeit a small implementation issue. However, it is indeed a serious implementation issue within the framework of the Health and Force Act and the Law mandatory ggz. Let me take it with me in the context of this implementation. Here too, let us do it as practically as possible. There are settings that serve vg clients who, for example, get into a psychosis, so they really don't want the care they can get in a vg setting anymore. Then the Wzd authorization must be suspended and a Wvggz authorisation must be requested. That Wzd authorization is resurrected the moment the client returns. Then care may not be provided in the same institution. It can also be a less radical situation, where that care can be provided and where it is not good at all if the client changes setting. But then the care must be flown in and you need that external expertise. Preferably as practical as possible, as close to home as possible, as sober as possible. Let us not lay down special things, but simply shape these laws with common sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u95	Finally, Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u96	Certainly, Mr. Chairman, but I hadn't finished my sentence when the Minister started answering.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u97	Nevertheless, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u98	Nevertheless, you are always right. I would just like to ask the Minister, also in consultation with the Minister for Legal Protection, to take the overlap with forensic care. There, too, we find an above average percentage of people with psychiatric or slightly intellectual disabilities. The same question actually applies to how we are going to handle this properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u99	That's right. For this, the possibilities will be increased again from 1 January 2020, as the continuity of care will be adequately legally anchored. Then I will go to Mrs Wezel's questions, because I had stayed with the SP. She owed another answer to a question she asked my colleague yesterday for legal protection. This question has been repeated today by Mrs Barth, so I really want to combine these questions. The question was: has there been enough specialised youth assistance since decentralisation? In addition, Mrs Wezel seems to be suggesting that the municipalities might be short of money. There is a lot to say about the care landscape, the way it has developed and the extent to which sufficient supply is available. Of course there are really waiting lists for complicated forms of care. I'm telling you, they rarely have money to do with. They have much more to do with the question of whether the supply is kept in the air by suppliers. It may have to do with the predictability of the contractual situation, for example if an institution lacks long-term contracts, whether it is still possible for an institution to keep a fairly expensive offer in the air. Of course you can. That is true, especially when it comes to disorders whose prevalence is low. It just happens. Mrs Barth mentioned closed youth care, but that is actually a very different, separate branch of sport. That is precisely what is bought in very specific places. What sometimes happens is that a contract is purchased a little lower than the one that is ultimately used. Then the discussion is always about whether an institution should be expected to maintain more supply than it has been contracted out. The answer is yes, because that is how the system determined it. The court has a duty to ensure that care for young people is closed and therefore the municipality has closed its funding for youth care. However, this is really a conversation between provider and municipality: can I be expected to keep 150 places in the air if I'm paid structuralally and contractually only for 100, and each time I have to deliver extra, because a judge has said so, can submit an additional invoice? That's one side of the story. We have to solve that in the programme of care for the youth that we are going to make in the coming months. I would also like to look closely at the care landscape in each region, which has to serve a total palette. Pregnanter is the question that Mrs Wezel raised, namely whether it is understandable because municipalities have had to cut back on youth care. The answer to that question is no, because there is a duty of care for municipalities and a youth aid light for municipalities. You have not established the law in such a way that I had noticed that there is a duty of care for municipalities, unless they consider that they have a little too little money. That's not true. No, there's a duty of care for municipalities. You could call it a compensation obligation. If young people need that care, then that care must be provided. By the way, you can also discuss finances with municipalities. We do this, even more so, almost weekly, and some municipalities really have a point and other municipalities do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u100	I am largely very pleased with this answer from the Minister, which is very clear, but my question was a bit different. The Minister now refers to closed youth care and I have asked for forced admission into the youth ggz. That's a bit different, because that's when the judge finally decides that you need to be taken in. If municipalities don't buy those places... The minister says it's very clear in the law. I'm not an economist, but I get enough of the world of money to realize that it doesn't go well for a very long time when an institution that has to keep 150 places, but gets paid for 100 places.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u101	Mr President, a little more precision. Actually, the same goes for this as I just said. It's often the case that there's a standard contractual situation in which a region takes my own region of Rotterdam and has 100 of these places, but number 101 is coming. The financial agreement is that you can just bill it and that you will just be paid for it. Very complicated offer is often covered by a national transition arrangement where the explicit agreement is that for every young person who comes into the institution, you can bill to the municipality where he comes from. This applies, for example, to anorexia care covered by the national transition arrangement. The prevalence is very low and the supply is very expensive and very complex. So there is a rural arrangement where you can just bill per youth. But what is it about? When it comes to a few clients, this is never a problem, but when it comes to a major deviation between what is contracted on a multiannual basis and what is actually delivered, it is often complicated for an institution to maintain its long-term status. That's how it's hard to talk to the bank when it asks what certain income there is. The answer is: I know I'm paid for 100 a year and I have to deliver about 150 every year. The question then is: are you sure, let's see the contract? If you don't have those contracts, you're having a complicated conversation with the bank. This type of very practical issue must be addressed in the Youth Care Programme. In doing so, we must have a care landscape covering every region. What does the law say about this? "You shall," says the law on this in the direction of the congregations. Municipal councils therefore have an exciting conversation with their alderman at the moment when a municipality does not know what to do. Eventually, the escalation procedure that can reach up to my phone also applies, so to speak. That is never a happy prospect for municipalities. I am not worried that this will not be resolved in the end, but I can see that there is a rebuke there in practice. I can see that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u102	I thank the Minister for his clear explanation. I refer to the example I gave. It happens that when a judge has imposed a certain measure, sometimes there is a waiting period of up to one year. At least that's what I read. Is there a maximum number of months of waiting that you say is still reasonable and that municipalities need to be addressed above, or do you leave it to the freedom of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u103	No, not at all. Trench standards apply there. You know the barracks that apply to care at all. That's actually always what local authorities themselves contract. If municipalities do not do so, the aldermen often have a very complicated conversation with their city council. By the way, I've been wondering who "treek" is, but I've been told that Treek is an estate where all this type of standards have been discussed. Yeah, they're from those discoveries. The barrage standards therefore; they simply have to abide by them. By the way, when a judge says that forced admission is really necessary, other deadlines apply and they are much stricter. Does it ever occur that there is a need to wait, even if the judge has given a ruling? Yeah, that happens. I've heard of this casuism before. What strikes me then is that the judge has often been far too precise about the institution in which it has to be done, and that institution is just a waiting list. So if the judges would like to inform themselves a little about the offer that the municipality in question has purchased, they would prevent a judge from saying "it must be in that institution" while there happens to be a waiting list and there would be closed places elsewhere. But that is not an excuse to create a waiting list for the very care that is required. It also has to do with triage. These are all extremely exciting debates, which I really believe should take place mainly in every city council. Should you run into a case you say "that can't be right?', Don't hesitate and e-mail it to me, because then we're just gonna figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u104	What I see in practice is this. The probation will make a report and indicate: this minor needs it and that care and it is available in that or that institution. The judge takes that literally in the verdict. Perhaps there can be consultation with the courts so that they can take that wisdom with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u105	That's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u106	I don't think so. In practice, I see that they are taking over and that the judges are not aware that they should be more cautious about a location.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u107	Maybe finally, because otherwise we will continue to deal with this problem for a very long time. These conversations are held, often locally. Judges do not allow themselves to be controlled so much nationally, of course, and it must also be done locally. So if there is casuism in which this leads to a problem, then that is casuism that is often scaled up in such a municipality. Often the discussion of such a case leads to the analysis it comes through. If this is the background, then there is also a conversation at the local level between the purchasing region and the local court, or in this case the probation, in the vein of: write a little less in which institution it should be done, then we can better accommodate where such a person can go on time. Mr. Chairman. I'm going on. Mr Schnabel and Mrs De Bruijn did not ask any additional questions. I will continue with Mrs Barth's questions. She first recalls the agreements on the evaluation. I am not going to repeat what I have said about what should become part of that evaluation. I will come back to the provision that Mrs Barth says she is pleased that we have been able to agree that this evaluation will take place every five years. I appreciate that, too, but further study shows that that was already in the law. So we both actually liked something that was already in the law. With that, we are a little Doctor Nobel Prize from Sesame Street, the inventor of the things that already exist, but that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u108	I think that handy politicians are always their own, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u109	Right? That's fine, too. Then there is the question of these two legal regimes. Yesterday, I explained quite extensively why the choice is as it is. This is because it concerns quite different target groups, who also have a different need for forced care, where you also want to be able to scale up and scale down a little more easily. That's content. Secondly, it is practically a target group of 300,000 potential clients, compared with 20,000 within the target group of the mandatory ggz Act. Those are two important arguments for those two regimes that have been set up. But does that mean that there are no arguments to come up with or no comments that could lead to a different conclusion? I don't think so. There are always arguments and comments to be made about cutting wood. You mentioned some of them, but what if I had made them conclude that we are going to do it again? Then I am sure that you would have made the point: is it actually practical and is it not very different target groups? Then the answer should have been yes. In short, here are the dilemmas that politics has to deal with. That is why I think that the path we took yesterday in conjunction with ourselves is actually what you are asking for, that future prospects are actually the best way forward. Let us begin with this and clarify the field after we have talked about it for years. Let's get started like this. A great step, a major lap for manchild, I called it. First, start like this, side by side, as Mrs Bikker also said. That is also one of the options offered by ZonMw: two laws side by side. Then it might be that, on the basis of the evaluation, we say that one legal framework should actually be possible. That is something else than what Mrs Barth says, because she wonders whether you should not want a further consistency in the legal protection regimes, not for the whole target group but for, for example, part of the target group or in certain decisions. Wouldn't there be some ground for that? Those seem interesting questions to answer, but not now. However, it must be properly taken into account in the evaluation. Mrs Barth asked about the possibility of experimenting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u110	I welcome the Minister's answer and can follow it well, but I still have one small question, namely specific attention in the evaluation for the GGB group in the GGB. Would the Minister also take that with him to prevent them from falling apart?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u111	Sure. The gb group in the ggz. I think that at some point we can have a debate in which we can only use abbreviations. That could be a good experiment. I am happy to say this, although this is actually on the premises of my colleague Mr Blokhuis. I hear him saying that I may make that promise; that is how these things go. So that's how cooperation is already going! I will continue with another question: are we already experimenting ahead of entry into force? The answer is: there is already plenty of experimentation. Nursing homes but also institutions in disability care are wondering: can we work according to the roadmap and what does this bring us to the daily implementation practice? By the way, working with the roadmap until the law enters into force is not enforceable. But working according to that professional guidance can and will of course. Then I'll come to the questions of the CDA. That group recalls the commitment to evaluation and says that one framework law is not excluded. The answer to that must be confirmed, albeit one framework law does not add a great deal to everyday practice. It only becomes exciting when you would further congruentise the legal regimes that are underneath, and which are also different within the current BOPZ. We will come back to that in implementation. We'll talk about it in detail. The CDA once again calls for careful implementation, including with the flow charts I have just promised you, and calls for the cost and financial burden of these laws to be included in the implementation practice in the evaluation. I think if the CDA hadn't mentioned it, the implementation practice would have brought it up. I think it is a nice touchstone to see if we have succeeded in doing what Mr Schnabel said in his first term, namely not being too prescriptive in the implementation practice. Keep it executable, keep it close to the existing implementation practice, otherwise it just becomes too complex. I would like to say that, including the issue of administrative burdens, but I mentioned that yesterday. I have now come to the questions of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. I think we have sufficiently discussed the questions that Mr Don has also asked, but Mr Ganzevoort also asked if I could talk to the field in order to prevent the creation of an army of external advisers. I say that with all my heart. That's what I like to talk to the field about. Then there are a number of questions from Mrs Strik from yesterday. I'm sorry I couldn't answer them at once yesterday, but here is a bit of an inequality of arms. I just said it outside the microphone. Mrs. Strik is a lawyer. I think international treaty law is her background. I am a master, but then a schoolmaster, from Rotterdam-Zuid. That means that we could not have the debate at once yesterday. But because inequality is always an issue for GroenLinks, I thought: maybe she will forgive me for having to come back to this today. The question was: isn't it true that in case of deprivation of liberty, direct access to justice is always necessary? And isn't it true that there can't be a complaint procedure first? That is not the case. We have had this well tested by a number of external experts: an army of professors. No, it's an army. We have had this checked against the ECHR by a number of experts, including at this point. Those opinions showed that a complaint procedure before the court is in line with the ECHR, but under a number of conditions, namely that the complaints committee is independent, that the person concerned is heard about his complaints, that the complaints committee should reach its decision with a certain urgency and that the decisions of the caregivers can be destroyed by the complaints committee. Those conditions are however laid down in order to rule that, within the current roadmap of the Health and Force Act, access to justice is regulated in an adequate and appropriate manner within the ECHR. Mrs Strik had another question about the ratification of the optional protocol to the Disability Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u112	Mrs. Strik, through me, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u113	Of course, as always. As far as inequality is concerned, I think it is very special for the Minister to say so. I am only a loner as a parliamentarians and you are a minister with a battery of officials behind you. I address you, of course, as a representative of the government. So in that sense, I am glad that you have finally answered that question. I would therefore like to see the advice you receive reflected in the documents. You were just about to move on to the question of ratification of the protocol, but you answered it yesterday. So I'll wait and see, unless you have new information on that. But my question went even further into legal protection, in particular the exclusion of appeal. I understand now that the Secretary of State will return to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u114	Yes. I also welcome the fact that you no longer want to answer that other question, but I promised you that I would check exactly what stage that is at. We have said that we are not going to do all these optional protocols at once. For the time being, we have opted for the optional protocol to the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, which can also be used for people with disabilities. That bill is ahead of the Council of State. I told you that yesterday, and then you said, "Yes, but what's the next step?" I'd like to give you an update on that. The Council of State has now delivered an opinion on the ratification of the Protocol. So the next step in that process is that we are going to work on a further report. Moreover, the Foreign Minister has the lead in this matter. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my second reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u115	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If I have written along correctly, I have about 12 questions to answer. So that promises something for the time span I need. I shall begin with a number of questions put by Mr Don in his second term. The first question was about the Switch team for people with confused behavior: the deadline ends on October 1st, and then what? I am not in a position to clarify this at this time, but of course we are also talking about this with the switching team itself. In the course of this year, however, it is intended that municipalities and regions should take over that stick themselves and ensure that things are well secured at that level. But in the places where national support is still needed, we will certainly offer it. Because we also have every interest in ensuring that it is properly secured everywhere in the Netherlands. As Mr Don also knows, at least the SunMw action programme for people with confused behavior continues after 1 October; he knows it better than I do, I think. In any case, whatever decision we take for a transit after 1 October, we will inform the Chamber about this. The issue of the shortage of psychiatrists has been mentioned by several spokesmen, also very penetrating by the SP Group through Mr Don and in the first term by his colleague. The cabinet shares the concerns expressed about the shortage of psychiatrists. It also applies to more areas in the care file and to other occupational groups that all kinds of vacancies cannot be filled. That's why the Minister of VWS and Minister Bruins of... What is he Minister of again? My colleague says medical care. I'm sorry, that's very serious. Could this be cut, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u117	I'm afraid I can't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u118	Too bad. They don't cut corpses. I just lost track.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u119	But I'll give Mr. Schnabel the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u120	We must be very realistic about this shortage of psychiatrists. There's actually no shortage of psychiatrists at all. After the GP, the psychiatrist is currently the largest profession in the medical world, with almost 4,000 professionals. But there is a shortage of 600, 650, 700 psychiatrists in organized mental health care, in the institutions, because psychiatrists don't want to work there. You can blame them for that, but it's also a warning: what are we doing? It must also be attractive for professionals to be able to do their job in the way they feel they should do it professionally. There is one problem: one prefers to work in free practice rather than to take care of the most important, most difficult group of patients into account in an institution. I give this point as a warning to the cabinet: beware, it is not a one-sided process of an absolute deficit, but a choice that they themselves make.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u121	This is a justified addition by Mr Schnabel. I also shared that figure of 650 yesterday after the first term with the SP Group. That is what Mr Schnabel's nuance is all about. I am talking about this with both the professional association and GGZ Nederland. We need to have an exact picture of exactly where the deficits are. The fact is, for example, that there is less psychiatric care available on weekends and on picket times due to the removal of psychiatrists from institutions. I am also talking to the profession about this. That does not alter the fact that we want to have a picture of whether there are vacancies for this particular care in very sensitive areas. In the Sector PlanPlus, the three executives of VWS.............................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr. Chairman. Mr Don also asked about the Argu data. Is it not time for the use of Argus data to be regulated? Under Argus I mean the registration of freedom-limiting interventions, which is now taking place under the BOPZ Act. Also under the compulsory ggz law, the healthcare provider must keep such a record per care-needed person. It concerns the effective application of compulsory care by form, necessity, start and end dates and duration and frequency. Detailed rules, in the Decision and in the Ministerial Arrangement, shall lay down rules on how data processing is organised. This shall be accompanied by additional guarantees for safe and careful application. This could include technical standards. I will inform the Chamber of the extent to which we are involved in Argus registration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u122	I thank the Secretary of State for his commitment. I'll come back to the importance of it. In a good registration there is also a form of legal protection. Ex-post testing must be carried out, either individually or at macro level, to ensure that things are properly organised. That's what we need to ask you again. Thank you for your commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u123	Indeed, it can be an incentive for providers to be reluctant to deal with coercion. That's what we're all trying to do. Yesterday, however, I also made the nuanced remark that the application of coercion by an institution in itself is not necessarily a licence of inability or something about the quality of the institution. Mr. Chairman. Then there are questions of will. We also had this complicated discussion yesterday in an interrupting debate. Mr Don asks me to have a conversation with professionals and with MIND. I'd be happy to admit that I do. I'll have that conversation heartily. That's what we're gonna clear our agendas for. Mr. Chairman. Mr Schnabel drew attention to the quality of the AMvBs. He filled that out a little bit more. In response, I say that we will of course ensure that the quality in the AMvBs is guaranteed. I indicated yesterday that the consultation is coming to an end. It should be completed on 4 February. On the basis of the consultation of the AMvBs around the field of outpatient care, the quality will be further completed. I'm assuming this will lead to good, safe care. I also think that the point made by Mr Schnabel in this light was not a question, but a point which was quite right. He placed the ggz in the broad context of how it was traditionally organised. Let me paraphrase it in my words: the ggz certainly has the aim of providing adequate and good care, but must also respect safety and protection. It is good that Mr Schnabel emphasizes this very strongly. That's what I'd like to stress with him. Mrs Oomen asked a question about the safety of employees. Yesterday, in my first term, I went into this in some detail. The laws themselves pay attention to safety. Think, for example, of the situation of coercion, of care in an outpatient setting, which leads to insecurity for healthcare workers. Then you can still opt for care in an institution, or for another way, for example in a protected living environment. This can guarantee the safety of employees. Moreover, I would add that safety is certainly a responsibility of the institutions themselves, of the employers. They must ensure that their own employees can work in a safe setting and feel the safety to report and scale unsafe situations. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Barth asked whether we would like to include the issue of sufficient capacity in the ggz in the evaluations. The answer to that is very brief: yes, we would like to do so. Mrs Barth also raised the complex issue of the legal status of minors. After she asked me yesterday if I didn't have that answer ready, I said something about it. I am giving the same answer now, at least a little shorter. This point has been highlighted and I promised yesterday that we will inform the Chamber before the summer of what steps we might take in this regard. Mrs Barth asked who actually has the power of perseverance when applying for a care authorisation, the prosecutor or the medical director. The answer under the law is very simple. The district attorney has the final say, the perseverance. It's possible. We do not suspect that this will happen often, perhaps rarely or never. In situations where it is not possible for the Public Prosecutor not to apply for a health authorisation in accordance with the medical director's advice, the law already provides for the possibility of re-applying. This can be done by the care professional, the municipality or even the family or close partner. This is all set out in Article 5.18.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u124	That is a completely correct answer, but unfortunately not to my question. My question was what happens if no prosecutor is available. There's a capacity shortage in the D.A.'s office. There will be an increase in the number of people due to the mandatory ggz Act, but also here we can't open that look with professionals. If the medical director comes up with an application for a care authorisation in a hurry and there's no one available at the D.A.'s office, then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u125	I would almost like to address this question to my neighbour, the Minister for Legal Protection. It is a question of what if, because I do not know if these situations occur. It could also be a theoretical situation. Perhaps I should inform the Chamber in writing, because it is not so important to have this answer before these laws can be accepted. I do not know whether my colleague can comment on this, otherwise we will have to inform the Chamber in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u126	I sincerely hope that this is a theoretical...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u127	Mrs Barth, the president has changed, but the order of business remains the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u128	Mr President, I very much hope that this is a theoretical situation, but I saw the Minister for Legal Protection nodding in a way that he could imagine something. However, I think it would be fine if this question were answered in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u129	Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Bruijn asked about the position of municipalities. Do they have sufficient preparation time and resources? At what point will the Chamber be informed? The implementation is very carefully taken up, as has also been indicated in the first term, also in relation to the position of the municipalities. They are carefully involved and planning is coordinated with them. We will inform the Chamber about the way in which we will do so by the summer. In addition, we will periodically inform the Chamber during the implementation. We also hope to provide insight into the financial situation of municipalities and what resources are needed. This also answers Mrs Oomen's question about the financial position of municipalities. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mrs Strik's appeal. She is right: that is not indeed regulated by the law, including on the advice of the Council of State. The Council of State had different reasons for doing so. The most important one, which is quite striking, is a very practical one: in many cases, the time limit for the judicial authorisation is already granted before an appeal is made. It is then a wash nose if this vehicle would still be positioned in the law. We believe that there is sufficient legal protection in the whole of the law for the clients and those involved. I would, however, like to assure Mrs Strik that we will include this point in the evaluation. We will then consider whether it will later be necessary to anchor the appeal in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u130	Thank you for this addition. I think it's really important. As I read the opinion, it was mainly the case that the Council of State asked for further justification on some of these points. As far as the validity of the judicial authorisation is concerned, of course, it is true that it will then have expired, but the appeal may nevertheless lead to the development of a line that lower judges can, of course, hold on to in future cases. Precisely because there is a lot of discretion in the law, it can be useful for a Supreme Court to develop some criteria in case law. I would appreciate it if this could be discussed further in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u131	Fine. Speaking of this evaluation, Mrs Strik asked whether legal aid would also be an issue of evaluation. The answer to that is in the affirmative: we are also taking that with us. Overall, in the light of the answer given by the VWS Minister, it will be a comprehensive evaluation. Then I come to my final answer. Mrs Oomen asked whether the evaluation looked at the regimes of two laws. The Minister has already mentioned this, but it seems logical to me that this element should also be included in the evaluation. I am therefore at the end of my second reply, Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u132	Thank you. I have been listening secretly, so I suppose I have remembered that there are also a few questions for the Minister for Legal Protection, who is given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u133	Mr. Chairman. Thank you also for the second-term contribution. Let me start with the pièce de résistance: the scheme of refusing observandi. It is right and fully understandable that there is a lot of discussion about this. This was already the case with previous treatments of this law. It is, of course, also a very fundamental point. Mrs Barth rightly pointed out that suspects refused to cooperate in an investigation at the Pieter Baancentrum for various reasons. So it's not always a kind of tactic or process strategy; it can also result from the disorder itself or have to do with the fact that a suspect is innocent. She challenges me a little bit, in the vein of: you are also here as Minister for Legal Protection? That's totally true. For all suspects, innocent or not, the presumption of innocence applies. That is a fundamental principle in our criminal procedural law, as well as the principle that one does not have to cooperate in his own conviction. I think it is important to discuss this very carefully over and over again in this debate. I understand very well that Mrs Barth is struggling with it, and I can also tell Mrs Strik that a person who exercises his right to not cooperate is then confronted with a restriction on his right to private life, including the protection of medical data. So I am not going to deny that there is tension, but nevertheless I believe that the scheme is necessary and also meets a number of obligations arising from the ECHR. The right to protection of private life is not absolute. Article 8 of the ECHR recognises that there are circumstances under which a restriction on the right to private life is permitted. This also applies where this restriction relates to the confidentiality of medical data. In doing so, we must respect the requirements of proportionality and subsidiarity. I would just like to make a specific point about this, even if only for the history of law, because we have weighed it very consciously here. In my view, the regulation meets the proportionality requirement. Mrs. Strik asked about that, too. The Council of State also concluded in its opinion that the scheme contains the necessary safeguards and does adequate justice to the interests of the suspect. Then you look at proportionality on two levels, first of all in a general sense. The scheme serves a major social interest, which can be regarded as a mandatory requirement in the public interest. Let me refer to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. This is all the more true when you also see that this same ECHR has explicitly considered that the State also has a positive obligation to take measures to prevent serious crimes. Mrs De Bruijn referred to this in the first term. Furthermore, when it comes to proportionality in general, the scheme naturally includes a whole series of safeguards. I'm not going to run them all again here, but we talked about ultimum remedium, et cetera, et cetera. This is all described in detail in the documents, but it is important. In addition, there is proportionality in individual cases. The judicial test, whereby the judge hears the suspect and weighs all interests against each other, also ensures proportionality in the individual case. Then subsidiarity, in fact the weighting or the objective cannot be achieved with a lighter and less radical means for the individual concerned. Mrs. Barth asked about some sort of escalation model. In my view, the regulation meets the subsidiarity requirement, because it is not automatically applied to all the rejecting observers. You can say: it is a last resort, but it is certainly not the only one, and certainly not the first one, to be used. In all cases, an attempt is made to obtain cooperation with a suspect who is under observation. It is also considered in all cases whether sufficient insight into the defendant's state of mind can be obtained in any other way. For example, you should consider further examination of the criminal record or environmental research that can be done by the NIFP. The policy that we have put in place is aimed at recognizing the refusal of observers at an early stage. The NIFP always adapts its observation methods to this. To give you an example: last year a pilot was launched at the Pieter Baan Centre with an even more intense observational climate, trying to seduce reluctant suspects to cooperate. Rejecting suspects are transferred very early to a special department, where they get extra activities and are also extra stimulated. Where appropriate, the court shall be asked to extend the observation period. If these seven weeks are not enough, then another seven weeks can be taped to it. That is being experimented with now, but we would also like to codify it. That is why your Chamber is discussing a proposal this afternoon at your procedural meeting. Extension of the observation period precedes the possible deployment of the scheme. Only if renewal is not useful or does not produce sufficient results can medical data be requested. I'm doing it a little extensively because I really want to convince you that it's a last resort. But it is an important remedy in those cases where the net is just as necessary to detect a disorder and make a proper diagnosis. Mr. Chairman. The use of the scheme is not an end in itself. I would therefore like to go straight back to Mrs Bikker's point that we should not fall into well-naïve discussions, but that we should take a serious look at the evaluation as to whether it is effective, what possible side effects have been, and that we should keep our finger on the pulse. I would like to say in this House that the regulation proposed here is not a solution to all problems. Not in all cases where observandi refuse, this medicine will be effective. So we have to look at how many cases it really offers solace. I take this very strongly into account in the evaluation. Mr. Chairman. Even if your Chamber agrees with the law, I will continue to work for other ways of reducing the problem of the refusal of observers and increasing the effectiveness of the TBS measure. The WODC is currently investigating the number of times that the judge has imposed a TBS measure on a refusing observer. In the context of this investigation, judges and prosecutors are asked whether they themselves see possibilities for improvement. I think this refers to a remark made by Mr Schnabel that you see in some court cases that judges are imposing that measure without a final opinion from the OJC. I will also look very seriously at other suggestions. First of all, the suggestion of the Chairman of the Personal Data Authority to include in the law that the prosecution has the possibility, in the case of a successful refuser, to ask the judge to impose additional or instead of the prison sentence already imposed, within two years of the conviction becoming irrevocable. Other suggestions have also been made, for example in the Lower House, about the so-called two-phase structure or the two-phase process. That is just another variant, but an interesting one and worth a good look at. The possibility of imposing TBs even after the sentence has been imposed in detention is another suggestion I would like to look at. The same applies to some suggestions made by the TBs attorneys. Some of you also put a dime in the bag yesterday, you might say disrespectful. Mr Van Dijk mentioned the obligation to cooperate, Mrs Wezel thought of a slightly different variant of the suggestion of the Personal Data Authority and Mrs De Bruijn suggested the introduction of the provisional TBs measure. Mr Dercksen also made a point, because he discussed in detail the report of the National Rapporteur for Trafficking in Human Beings, in which it was said that risk assessment could also look at more statistical models making predictions about this. You do have the question of how to use statistical information relating to a group in an individual opinion. That's kind of complicated. I think we should take all the good advice we have. However, this takes time, not only because I want to examine all the proposals, both in terms of compliance with fundamental rights and in terms of practical feasibility, but also because many suggestions entail a significant change in the system. I really need to take a good look at that. My proposal is as follows: I think it should be feasible to make a serious first exploration of all the options now on the table by the end of 2018. This allows us to get a sense of which of these are the truly feasible and desirable options and which pluses and minuses are attached to them. If it can be done sooner, that would be nice, but I think at the end of 2018 is a reasonable timeline. It should then be possible to further develop one or two of these promising alternative or limiting measures in the run-up to the review of this law, which is about three years from now, so that a full discussion can also be held in the legislative review.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u134	Thank you for this. I see that as a commitment to take a serious look at it. I would like to point out that this system is already being applied in the Anglo-Saxon countries. The question you ask yourself is easy to answer by checking how this happens in other countries. The report that was written mainly dealt with sex offenders. I'd like to broaden it to all TBs. If I understand the report correctly, I think there is a great deal of connection to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u135	I'd like to take that with me. I know that in Canada this type of model is being applied more than at present in the Netherlands. I think we can learn from that. Mrs Strik asked whether this would be an alternative or an addition. I find it difficult to say anything about that now. Again, the scheme is not an end in itself. If, over time, you can come to a better way of working or taking better measures, this can always change. It is fair to say that, if your house agrees to this law next week, we intend, at least until better methods have emerged as a last resort with the regulation, to really refuse observers to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u136	The Minister now states that he intends to have developed the examples in mid- or late 2018. I find that a little disappointing, because there is now a considerable violation of fundamental rights for these people. It would be very nice, especially with the few examples that lie behind it, if there could be consultation with the judiciary, the public prosecutor, the NSA and other parties. It should be possible to do so by six months, so that we can see in the shorter term whether there are any alternatives that are less serious and which may yield much more. I'd like a response from the Minister to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u137	I suspect that Mrs Strik's question is in line with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u138	Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome the serious reaction of the Minister to this. I think it would be very good to study all these different modalities in full. I understand that there is time to do so, but in particular because of the proposal for these two phases, I would very much appreciate it if the target date could indeed be 1 October. I think it is also very important, if we have examined all these modalities sufficiently for consequences, to see what that means for the admissibility of breaking up medical professional secrecy. Subsidiarity will, of course, be in a different light, as will the necessity. The question is what this means for the regulation that is now before us. I would ask the Minister not only to include the individual guarantees, but also what it means more at macro level for, for example, access to care and to care providers. I ask him to include this in the study as well, which mode is the most preferred one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u139	It is really my intention to map all pluses and minuses as best as possible. Speed and care are of course always linked here. Nor is it a single proposal that I am asked to take a good look at. With a number of suggestions made here in the debate and the questions put to me by the House of Representatives, a number of variants are on the table. Honesty commands me to say that it is very ambitious to do so within six months. If I can, I'd love to. But it is good for me to have a good debate. I think that should be possible towards the end of the year. If we can do it sooner, I think that makes us all happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u140	I would like to thank the Minister for the extremely careful way in which he is now answering our questions. I'm very happy about that. I had three more points. The Minister has just indicated that he wants to monitor very carefully the development of the use of the article when it enters into force. Is he willing to pay particular attention to the potential counterproductive effect it could have, so that it does not prevent people from looking for care? My second question is whether he is prepared to talk to them in an open manner about why they sometimes still advise their clients not to cooperate at this time, despite the fact, for example, that, at their request, there has been a huge amount of work on shortening treatment hours in the TBs. That's been very successful, hasn't it? That price went down by 20%. My final question is whether the Minister is prepared to say that, as I requested in my second term, medical records of minors will always remain closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u141	I can answer the first two questions in the affirmative. That is, for example, about the care avoiders. I believe that this is an explicit point in the evaluation, as is how to deal with any requests for the destruction of medical data. I'm also picking up the conversation with the TBs attorneys. An investigation like this isn't just a question of desk research. We are also talking to a lot of experts and stakeholders about exactly how they are in this issue. With regard to the medical records of minors, there is now no legal limit to the antiquity of the data that can be used. This also applies to the data that can be requested from suspects under 19 years of age, because it is sometimes important to be able to determine whether there is a disorder in relation to minors. However, due to the care and vulnerability of underage suspects, it is important to ensure that the proceedings and the whole process of justice are conducted in private. I'll definitely watch for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u142	I would like to thank the Minister for giving serious consideration to my second-term comments. I'm very happy about that. I also look forward to the studies the Minister is going to do. I missed one point in the answer. That's what the treatment through the penitentiary room sees. Is that gonna work? Can the Minister take that with him? I think this is a very important aspect. If it doesn't work there, the arrangement's worthless. Can he promise this, as a small addition?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u143	Yeah, I'll take that into the evaluation. We think it's workable. You can argue well, without having to go into the specific medical data, why the data in a file are relevant or concrete enough and usable to come up with an opinion. But the practice has to show whether that is the case, so I will take this into account in the final evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u144	Mrs Wezel, is your question about the commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u145	Yes. I just heard Mrs Barth ask whether it can be excluded that medical information from minors can be used. As far as a 19-year-old suspect is concerned, you're actually saying that that information must be available. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u146	The answer to that is yes. Even in the case of less-years of age, in so far as there is youth-tbs, so-called pij-measures, it may sometimes be necessary to request certain information if there is really no other way to identify a disorder. Mrs Wezel asked about antiquity, the age of the data. Shouldn't you say at some point that these are things that are so far in the past that they are no longer useful? It would be my opinion that it was also decided in this legislative proposal that it would be up to the experts, the doctors themselves, to give an expert opinion on this. I think they should be able to do that very well. Then a number of other questions have been asked. Mrs Barth asks about the provision of data under the compulsory ggz Act. How will this be dealt with in advance of the current law, the BOPZ, following the opinion and the recent report of the PG at the Supreme Court on the addition of police and judicial and criminal data to the BOPZ files by the Public Prosecutor's Office? Now the pg has concluded that this is well arranged under the new law. But it doesn't go in until 1-1-2020. He does not consider the current legal basis for adding certain data to a BOPZ application to be sufficient. In accordance with the recommendations, the necessary measures are taken in anticipation of the entry into force of the mandatory ggz Act in order to strengthen the current legislation and the basics. For this we do not need parts of the mandatory ggz Act to enter into force earlier. As regards the powers of the police to provide certain police data to the prosecution, provision is made for an authorisation decision under the Police Data Act. That authorisation decision has now entered into force. Furthermore, my colleague, the Minister for Justice and Security, will shortly be coming forward with a response to the report of the High Council. I can give him the request to send a copy of it to the First Chamber. Mrs Barth also asked me to make a personal effort to build up the FACT teams. We are excited about that. It is a new way of working which also involves more risk assessment and, for example, looking at how knowledge and expertise from the forensic domain can be used in regular outpatient care. We are very happy to continue with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u147	I asked for this because I have received signals from the field that the construction of the forensic FACT teams is stagnating. I'm very happy to hear that the Minister is excited about it. I think this is right, but I asked the question because I hope the Minister will make a commitment to the expansion of the FACT teams at a higher rate than is currently the case. The minister is still the buyer, so he can send it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u148	The signal is not known to me, but now that Mrs Barth brings it to my attention so clearly, I will certainly look into it. Our starting point is that we really want to get on with this. Mr Dercksen asked what standing policy is with regard to non-Dutch people in the tbs. Standing policy is that tbs-states who have been convicted in the Netherlands or who have been imposed a measure are also treated in the Netherlands. Depending on their residence status, whether lawful or not, this treatment is aimed at rehabilitation in the Netherlands or in the country of origin. This means that they will have to leave the Netherlands after their treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u149	Let me put it first, listening to this debate, that there is a lot of attention for perpetrators and suspects and that it is so little about victims. That's something I need to get off my chest. I read what happened following the stabbing of this Pole that I put this story on. This man just traveled through Western Europe. Obviously that was legal, because Poland is a Schengen country. He could just do that, while in Poland he had already stabbed someone in the back. Now the conclusion is that we're offering him tbs as well. Because yes, he was a bit traveling, he came by in the Netherlands and he stabbed someone here for a while. Next, regardless of the intense misery of the family, Dutch society can now also bear the costs. That doesn't match the sense of justice I have. Perhaps the Minister could give them a little more hands and feet in order to respond to that feeling of justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u150	In my view, there are two sides to this feeling of justice. If someone in the Netherlands has been punished and taken a measure, it is important that we ensure that they are implemented. Here is the specific question of what happens afterwards. At the same time, residents of the Schengen area, in which the free movement of persons applies in principle in Europe, may be declared undesirable and may be relocated. But that does not alter the fact that I really attach great importance to the fact that an imposed TBS measure is also being implemented in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u151	But under what circumstances would you declare someone undesirable? I mean, how unwelcome are you if you just stab someone to death? There's no extravagant kick for that anymore. When do you use the opportunity to expel these people from the country?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u152	The seriousness of the fact and the risk of recurrence is always considered. In doing so, the burden of proof and the facts must be more severe as an EU citizen, someone from another EU Member State, stays longer in the Netherlands. It's not some kind of digital formula, but it's always a balancing of interests. I can report that this will happen. I do not think I should go into individual and specific cases here, because then it will be very slippery, but I will outline the framework as we apply it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u153	Mrs Wezel has a question that relates to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u154	I have more to say. In practice, I see that not everyone goes down the criminal trail. At Schiphol Airport, for example, I often see people going straight into the alien route and being expelled, often the same day. It is suggested that all these people are entering the criminal court, but that is not what I see in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u155	Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u156	Then there are the powers of intervention. Mrs Barth said that this law expanded that arsenal and asked what would happen with it in practice. I would just like to stress once again that we are very cautious about this. Having such a stick behind the door, even the fact that it is there at all, means that you often do not have to apply it in practice. That's the interesting thing about these things. It gives you much more influence, even in the conversations you have. This also sometimes reduces the incentive to use it. Mr Dercksen asked whether we would now also use the powers in relation to Altrecht. Some nuance fits in with that. Mr Dercksen's assessment of the progress of the clinic there is somewhat different from that of the recent report of the inspection. The inspections that have issued reports indicated that they do not immediately see the need to intervene actively. They indicated that there are many things that need to be improved, but that this very draconian measure is not necessary. There are also a number of studies in progress. In the end, the removal of directors is not a matter of concern because the powers of these specific institutions are not extended by the Forensic Care Act. Those really relate specifically to tbs settings. Mr. Chairman. Finally, two questions from Mrs Strik. The first question concerns the date of entry into force. Mrs Strik asked whether the Forensic Care Act could enter into force a year earlier than the other two laws. This is a slightly different law. It's more of an organizational law than a legal law. This law is not only written for the purpose of the Law mandatory ggz and the Law care and coercion, but also for the purpose of the current Law BOPZ. The simultaneous entry into force of all three laws is therefore not necessary. This law can anticipate it, except for the switching article. We want to avoid double burdens and a double regime for the interim period of that year. We would therefore like Article 2.3 to enter into force at the same time as the other two laws and that part as of 1 January 2020. Mrs Strik's last question may not have been a question, but it is an additional underlining of the focus that when we talk about supporting people in forensic care, we are also talking about a vulnerable target group. In my view, this was also a broader point and was not just about forensic care, but also about the other two laws. To be honest, I think it is quite right that this should be an additional point of attention, even if we look at a revision of the legal aid system. I'd be happy to include that in our analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u157	Mrs. Strik, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u158	Thank you for this commitment. I have indeed called on the Minister to remain primarily in consultation with the field to see if implementation can proceed with care. I have asked one specific question about the evaluation in the context of the refusal of observers, namely whether the Minister is prepared to identify how often the scheme is used and what the case law is on that point. I may have missed the answer, but perhaps the Minister could indicate whether this will be discussed in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u159	The short answer is yes. So many questions have been asked about side effects, the effectiveness of the measure and the actual use of the measure that I certainly want to take with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u160	You are therefore at the end of your second reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-eerstekamer-3.u161	I have come to deal with the legislative proposals and will do so by legislative proposal. Would one of the members like to vote on the bill Rules for the provision of compulsory care to a person with mental illness (Law on compulsory mental health care) (32399)? That's the case. Then I propose to vote on this bill next Tuesday. Does one of the members wish to vote on the legislative proposal Rules on care and coercion for persons with psychogeriatric or intellectual disabilities (Law on care and coercion psychogeriatric and mentally handicapped clients) (31996)? That's the case. Then I propose to vote on this bill next Tuesday. Would one of the members like to vote on the bill Adoption of a Forensic Care Act and related amendments to various other laws (Forensic Care Act) (32398)? That's the case. Then I suggest that we also vote on this bill next Tuesday.
