ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on reports that the NVWA will not intervene in the case of abuses in slaughterhouses. I would like to welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. Speaking time is six minutes. I give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand as the first speaker on behalf of the Animal Party. I see Mrs. Ouwehand has something on her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr President. In the Netherlands, almost 640 million animals are slaughtered per year. These are, for example, 1.5 million calves, a by-product of milk and cheese, 15 million pigs, 600 million chicks of six weeks of age, we call that usually chicken fillet.... and 17 million discarded laying hens of 1.5 years of age, which no longer produce so many eggs and therefore have to go to slaughter. It's 1,217 animals per minute. If we finish this debate in four hours, there will be 292,080 animals slaughtered. I brought one, i.e. a picture of the animal, because this animal no longer lives on a cow that I'm showing you here. And I would ask you to give an honest answer to the question: is there a humane way to kill a living being that doesn't want to die? This animal was standing at a slaughterhouse; the slaughter had not yet begun nor the stunning. Anyone can see, recognize that a living being, like us, is scared and stressed out here and doesn't have much of a appetite for slaughter. Mr. Chairman. And yet this is what we do in the Netherlands, at a murderous pace. In large slaughterhouses, 700 pigs per hour pass through, 200 calves per hour, 70 cattle per hour, and the pace in chickens is not even expressable. Mr. Chairman. No animal wants to die, and if animals are then transported to slaughter, where more and more people no longer want to cooperate, then it is annoying that it always turns out to be even worse. There are rules that should limit the suffering of animals, but the government makes exceptions to them. I refer to the ban on the unsedated slaughter which the religious slaughter does not have to comply with. The Animal Party wants to put an end to this; that ban should apply to everyone. Anesthetic methods that can be proven to cause a great deal of suffering are tolerated by the government. Pigs are intoxicated, but that happens in many cases with CO. That means that animals are being driven into a cage and hacked into a basement, where CO gas comes in. This causes a painful period in which the animals suffer seriously and seriously. The Chamber has requested that this be phased out. We don't see any results yet. Chickens are hung on their heads alive on hooks, so on their legs. That puts pressure on their organs. They'll go through an electric water bath with their heads. Experts also say that the animals must be put to serious death. The electricity is intended to stun them, but this stunning method causes a lot of suffering. The House said five years ago: look for an alternative; make sure we stop doing this. It's not gonna happen. As if all this is not enough, supervision also fails structurally. A whistleblower of the NVWA told in NRC that he was totally stuck in the performance of his work. He has the task of monitoring the rules in the slaughterhouse that should spare animals unnecessary suffering. He saw that animals, as euphemistically called, were not properly drugged. This means that animals are being seriously harmed. His reports were not particularly appreciated by his colleagues. He made images to support his pleas and observations with his supervisor. That wasn't appreciated. Then Secretary of State Dijksma spoke to this whistleblower and informed the Chamber. We did not know at the time that this was the situation. However, she wrote to the Chamber that offences are not always seen and recognised as such. Possible causes: lack of time, too fixed and too few unexpected inspections, habitation........................................................................................................................................................................................ Secretary of State Dijksma said: it is possible that the motivations not to maintain are stronger than the motivations to maintain. That's a big deal. An improvement plan was put in place at the time, but we are now five years ahead and we still see the same stories of whistleblowers. The situation hasn't changed. We see whistleblowers feeling intimidated and not feeling free to report. At EenVandaag two judges made a story of the statement they made under oath, but they themselves dare not on television, certainly not recognizable, because their job is at stake. Another whistleblower, who reported to the Party for Animals and, we believe, also to the Ministry, reports that the NVWA inspector will not intervene if one of the facilities in the slaughterhouse does not work. As a result, animals sit unnecessarily in the gas chamber and are sedated in another way. That inspector sees that this has happened in such a way that animals have broken their pelvis, broken their backs. And the NVWA inspector who had to see to that was not ready and unwilling to intervene. So what exactly changed? Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party has a clear mandate for the Minister: no more exceptions to the rules. Legal responsibility for the animal must be paramount. Reduce the number of animals slaughtered, because those murderous paces make animal welfare by definition the underprivileged child. Compulsory inspection: prior to entering the hot tub, it must be established that it has been killed. More capacity. Mandatory camera surveillance. We have a promise from Secretary of State Van Dam. It would have been settled by the end of last year, but only a pilot has been introduced so far. We must put an end to this culture of intimidation and not maintain it. Maintaining the rules to protect animals from unnecessary suffering.............................................................................................................................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Madam President. For almost thirteen years I've been in the Chamber and I've always been talking about the dysfunction and dysfunction of the NVWA, while there are so many good people working at NVWA and the former AID. I've always provided solutions to that. I shall also read out a few motions which are simply not supported by the Chamber. Because we can't just put everything on the Minister's plate. No, the Chamber has also failed. I've been in various Chamber configurations and they've all made it happen. So we should not leave everything now with a minister who has just taken office. That wouldn't be fair. We have wanted a qualitative and quantitative increase in NVWA for 13 years. So better education and better training, but also more NVWA's, much more. We have also asked for 500 men full-time animal police, because the NVWA's are not resilient. They have no police criminal jurisdiction and they are simply not resilient. Those people are being intimidated. They won't be able to report it, because they'll get kicked out. Because then they're not fit and then they get bullied away or kicked out. A lot of good former Aid's and NVWA'ers are gone. They're gone. God knows where they are. Give those people armed animal policemen. Then it's over, because an animal policeman grabs someone who's got a big mouth, intimidates or threatens his shoelace, and then he goes along. End of exercise. We also want to see animal executioners outside of taking-and-shaming: it must simply be made public, even the company of high fines in relation to the crime. The current fines are jokes. They're worth messing around, 'cause the fines they have to pay for it, they're laughing at it. Put the people involved in the prison, both the animal executioner and the person responsible. Prison sentences, as far as I'm concerned, on water and bread. If people are doing something with defenseless creatures like animals that are hypertensive, that are much more sensitive than all of us here together, you have to put them in jail and give a life-long ban on keeping animals, including private ones. So if someone is playing soccer on the slaughter line with chickens, whatever happened, then you have to make sure that such a man, even in private, never has an animal in the house again. I would have liked to have responded to that. We want the companies of recidivists closed down. End of exercise. If I were director of a slaughterhouse, I don't have to think about it. I'm not a vegetarian for nothing. I'd just kick all those people out. I'd go after them, and I'd select them better, too. I would not hire people from countries where they still have to invent the word 'animal welfare', because that is also a problem. Here people are working on the slaughter line from countries where animal welfare is not known at all, and that is very sad. Mr. De Groot can come to the microphone very surprised, but then he should visit a slaughterhouse.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u5	I think that's a very wonderful statement. Those people are employed by the NVWA. They are trained there for the NVWA and are under control. So how can you say something like that that has people's background to do with it? I like your speech. You speak from the heart, but you really can't say this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr. De Groot, you have to listen. You're doing a lot of stuff with those papers and you're not paying attention. I was talking about people working on the slaughter line. Now I wasn't talking about the NVWAs anymore. I'm talking about people who abuse animals on the slaughter line. I said that they are often people, with all due respect, because there are also a lot of good crannies from former Eastern bloc countries where they still have to invent the word 'animal welfare'. These people have very different values and standards than we do here about how you deal with animals. We deal with animals properly here. In those countries, they treat animals horribly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u8	Why don't you go see who's working in the abattoirs? A lot of Dutch people don't want to do dirty and dirty work at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u9	Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u10	If you go there once, you'll never touch a piece of meat again. Take me to a slaughterhouse once. You'll never eat meat again! You'll never eat meat again!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u11	Did you have a nice recess?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u12	Yes, Madam President. This was the first recess I haven't really had vacation, but I actually feel very rested and good. You've had a nice recess, haven't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u13	Yeah, yeah, yeah. You're so involved, passionate and excited that I think we're just getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u14	Madam President, with all due respect. I came to the Chamber 13 years ago for animals because animals didn't have a voice. Luckily, the Party for Animals is here now, but I joined the Chamber at the same time. We give the animals a voice. The animals don't have a voice. I think they have too little voice in the House of Representatives, with all due respect, and also in the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u15	I know it's very important to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u16	It's coming from my toes. Since childhood, I've been committed to animal welfare. That's not something that was born here. I've always saved animals and helped them. I've been doing that my whole life. If I get out of the room, I'm gonna do it again. Then I'm gonna help them myself again, because then I can go out of line again to help animals, which I can't do now. I'm gonna help them like I used to, but I'm gonna do it here for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u17	That's right. We're happy about that, too. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u18	What about those mobile killing stations instead of those nasty transports? Because we must not forget that most of the trouble starts with loading and unloading animals. What happens during transports is terrible, also in terms of fractures. I've asked many times about the number of fractures that occur. I have often said that something must be done about this. As long as there are people who do eat meat, unlike yours truly, we must at least contribute to ensuring that the animals are treated as well as possible, as Mrs Ouwehand said: there is no animal-friendly treatment and as little as can be done. So what about those mobile killing stations? Let us avoid this misery during transports by working on carcass transport. Madam President. For the rest, I asked for the NVWA's intervention policy to be strengthened. I already did that on 19 January 2016. The motions for resolutions on this matter are all rejected. It's very sad. I am asking for more FTE to be released for the control of abuses in slaughterhouses and enforcement, for the sake of delayed animal welfare checks in reoccurring attention companies, but a perverse majority of the House simply votes against it. While it's a very sympathetic thing, because I'm just asking: free up more people for it. One of the minister's predecessors said to me when I asked for a debate on Tielt: well, but that is in Belgium; that is not happening here. No, it's not here; we'll see! That's what I said back then. It's outrageous. Why are those NVWAs, who often have fear, not being accompanied by the good ones, because go and see what kind of rough people work there? I really would have liked an answer to that. Why don't you go over there alone as NVWA? Why don't you go in there when you're intimidated and threatened? If you have a mortgage and you don't have the guts to report it to your boss because he's gonna say, "You're gonna sit home sick or go away" or "we're gonna put that guy away internally because he's scared." While it's perfectly normal to fear that. So have those people escorted by the animal police. They're here. Why isn't that happening? I don't get it. Then it's over in one go. 'Cause I know animal policemen. They don't get intimidated. That's just not gonna happen. They won't allow it. I also asked the government here to give the proposed camera surveillance a legal basis in the Animal Law and to draw up further rules on the basis of that law. That was on May 24, 2017. Nothing's gonna happen to that. I would have liked to have had a reaction to that. In fact, I have to ask the MPs: why was my motion not adopted in order for an NVWA examiner to carry out risk checks, it cannot be more clearly: that does not mean at all slaughterhouses, because it is always the well-known officer to be accompanied by an NVWA inspector or an animal police officer? It is unbelievable that it is not even taken and that it is not even tested. I have almost run out of time, Madam President, so unfortunately I cannot go and list all my motions. I also want the ante-mortem inspection to be carried out only by a vet trained in the Netherlands. I would like to say a few words, because there is something that Mr De Groot was right about. I was just talking about people in the slaughter line. I also think that NVWA'ers should be Dutch, primal, primordial, primordial Dutch people who have studied veterinary medicine here. For our study of veterinary medicine and our values and standards in relation to animals are miles and miles above those in Eastern Bloc countries. Then you can shake no, Mr. De Groot, but you are not competent; I am more than you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u19	Thank you. Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u20	I wish you a blessed evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u21	Thank you. Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u22	Thank you, Mr President. The reason for this debate are horrible noises about abuses in slaughterhouses, and also horrible images, images that you do not want to see and should not be able to see. Today's question is: is our food safe, and is the welfare of the animals we slaughter guaranteed? That's what it's about. The consumer has the right to know whether the meat he eats is safe and whether the animal has been treated with respect and slaughtered properly. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has three points on which we can do better. The first is transparency towards the consumer. The second is the direction of inspectors. And the third is the connection between private and public controls. Mr. Chairman. The consumer just needs to know what he's buying. Cameras in slaughterhouses don't tell him that much, nor do they tell him that much. According to the fraction of D66, the level of animal welfare and, in particular, food safety in poultry slaughterhouses is structurally too low. I was really shocked by the mite monitor, especially as regards the hygienic work in the large poultry slaughterhouses. If you look at that, you'll see millions of chickens being slaughtered under inadequate hygiene conditions. That's hard. Something must be done about this. Fines are relatively low, but the threat of closing a slaughterhouse that is structurally not performing well may be effective. I would like to hear the Minister's response to that. There is simply an approval of slaughterhouses, and you can also withdraw them. Mr. Chairman. A consumer has the right to know from which slaughterhouse his piece of meat comes and what is the situation there with animal welfare and food safety. Because an overview of abattoirs where it's settled or not well is one thing, but how do you know, when one buys a piece of meat, what abattoir does that come from? I am convinced that it will be dealt with very quickly if we close that gap and the consumer knows what he is buying and knows how that slaughterhouse has dealt with animal welfare and food safety. Is the Minister prepared to sit down with supermarkets to see if this hole can be closed? The second point concerns the NVWA. During a working visit to NVWA I was really impressed by the professionalism of the inspectors. They're doing a really good job. They're good people who work in a way that's absolutely good. Here's what you'll get. You have those professional inspectors, but you also want some uniformity. How do you deal with that? I see a lot of layers of management, but management is actually very simple: you just have to make sure that people can do their jobs and be a little happy, and that the courses are in order, and don't get in the way too much. What about those management layers, I ask you through the chairman, Madam Secretary? What do they do? Do they do this, or do they write that improvement plan after improvement plan, as you can also read in the Kamerletters? Does "NVWA" mean "new improvement plan "wait, be amended"? Finally, private and public controls. Farmers and butchers are themselves responsible for food safety and animal welfare. That's why they have private systems. The government takes care of that; it actually guarantees those private systems. But now when you look at horse meat, fipronil and the reporting of salmonella infections, you see that there are two constants. The first is that the private systems do not pay sufficient attention to food safety. This was also evident yesterday in the discussion with the Sorgdrager committee. That comes out very clearly. And public oversight doesn't fit in well with the private systems. In 2013 we had horse meat. As a result, Ketenborging.nl was founded. I don't want to declare that sacred here, but it's about improving the connection between private and public. I can congratulate the Minister, because, if I am correct, there were five systems approved last year, and now there are six. That's actually very little, given the dozens of private systems that should come up on that. Or does the minister have another project in mind? In any case, the Minister's D66 Group wants to know how it will improve this connection between its supervision, its role and the responsibility of the business community itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u23	I note that the meat from that slaughterhouse in Tielt, which we have all seen the terrible images of, was just with Dutch electors. People think: I don't go to the supermarket, but to a pickler, but there was meat from horribly tortured animals. This is for the purpose of balancing private control and labelling. Mr Van Dam, Secretary of State in the previous cabinet, agreed with the Animal Party that you should be able to control what is happening. He said that he thought that slaughterhouses should be open and therefore show everyone what is happening in there and that camera surveillance is part of it. He also said: "The mandatory route has some hooks and eyes, but the voluntary route is on my mind; if they do not cooperate, we are going to create a legal basis, because that camera surveillance needs to be established." D66 was there together with the Party for Animals for that too. Now I hear Mr De Groot saying that people don't need much camera surveillance. Is D66 sticking to its position at the time that there should be camera surveillance and that this becomes mandatory if it fails voluntarily or is D66 running here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u24	D66 is very consistent. She believes that camera surveillance can indeed help to improve controls. I'm gonna have to nuance Mrs. Ouwehand. It's not about putting cameras there that the entire audience can... We have clearly spoken in the context of being a tool for inspectors. I have just said that it is not very helpful for the consumer. He doesn't buy meat from a slaughterhouse. That is why D66 wants the link between compliance by the slaughterhouse and the consumer. Indeed, I would also like to hear from the Minister about the pilot. Does it work? Does it indeed bring added value to the slaughter? How many companies are in it now? In this respect, we have supported the motion, and that is what we are sticking to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u25	I'm glad that misunderstanding has been cleared up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u26	That's a misunderstanding. You make a misunderstanding here and then you say: thank you for clearing it up. If you're spreading a little less misunderstanding yourself, we don't need to clarify them either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u27	If Mr De Groot does not want any misunderstandings, I can give him the tip that he will not say anything in future like 'people do not need much camera surveillance'. This gives him the impression that he has a bit of a backsliding. Anyway, whether it was a misunderstanding or not, we agree: we need camera surveillance. As a reminder, Secretary of State Van Dam was also in a cabinet with the VVD. He said that it should be settled in principle by the end of 2017 and that a legal basis would be created if it did not succeed. Now it's 2018 and it's not settled. It's just a pilot. What do you mean, a pilot? The promise was: there will be camera surveillance. D66 agreed. Does D66 support the Animal Party if it calls on the Minister to proceed with the legal basis? The abattoirs are not cooperating.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u28	Let's talk about misunderstandings. Before people think it is different, I note that I am speaking on behalf of the D66 Group. In addition, it is of course true that people do not have much use for camera surveillance. That's right, because it's there for the animals. I don't have to explain that to you, do I? It is of little use to consumers. That is why we, like D66, say: close it now, because then you will let the consumer choose for himself, and there will certainly come pressure on the butchers from the judges and other places where consumers can buy meat, just to go to 100% compliance. That's the thought behind it. A legal obligation is certainly not yet under discussion; I just want to hear it from the Minister first. Then we'll look into it. You have already drawn conclusions before the Minister has spoken and had the opportunity to tell us what is going on. That makes your story extremely weak. It seems a little like you have come up with a solution, but you have not looked into the actual situation. D66 just wants to hear it from the minister first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u29	It is good to hear that the atmosphere is already in the first week. I would like to ask Mr De Groot the following question. We often have a discussion about private inspection systems and the meaning or the nonsense of them. As he knows, I am not in the same position as Mr De Groot. He makes this plea more often. Now I would like to ask him: is there for him, is there a time before D66 when they say that in some sectors it is so difficult with private testing systems that we simply have to accept that they are not going to come? We can continue to hope: let the sector organise itself to raise it to a higher level and then hopefully it will come about, as it does in some other sectors. But perhaps we should just accept that this sector is not capable of doing so. Then the government has to intervene. Does Mr De Groot agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u30	For that, you have to go back to Europe. We in Europe have agreed that responsibility for food safety lies with food producers. That deal's like a house. If you manufacture cars, you're also responsible for the safety of those cars. The same applies to food. So you have to make sure that you do so with respect for the animals and that food safety is in order. I do agree with you that there is a gap in the relationship between private and public. We have also asked critical questions about this. That just doesn't connect. That is also why we have included in the government agreement the need for additional funding for controls on both food safety and animal welfare. We took care of that. This money will also be added from the next financial year. So not a fundamental change, but possibly a change in the ratio by intensifying government controls.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u31	A little further, though. Of course, the person who produces food is primarily responsible for its quality, but these labels are of course also about removing part of the control from the government, which might need to do more control if there is no label at all, and is deposited with a private organisation. You do that, you run a risk. I don't mean that there can't be anything wrong with control in the government, but if anything goes wrong with control in the government, there's someone I can talk to about that. In a private sector, that's a lot less simple. Does Mr De Groot see that rather fundamental difference and do we learn in the Netherlands, with the series of problems that we have so slowly had, that the public sector might have to take a greater role in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u32	As I have just said, we need to step up the role of the public authorities in the field of food safety and animal welfare. That is why D66 has called for additional funds for NVWA. They have also entered into the coalition agreement. That is not yet a fundamental change, but we see that the projects aimed at improving this connection are simply not going to go far. We are very critical of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u33	We do not have to go back to Europe, we have to go back to the European Union. It gets forgotten sometimes. It is not Europe that plays a role here, but the European Union; Mr De Groot just said that we should go back to Europe. I have a question for D66, of which Mr. De Groot is here as spokesman. At the beginning of 2017 I tabled a motion to make sure that the camera footage that already exists of the closed-circuit television, as it is called, will not only benefit research by the NVWA but also criminal investigation by the task holders animal welfare of the national police. My question is why D66 voted against it, because D66 wants to intensify and I also think that there should be more cooperation to tackle assholes. Why is such a sympathetic motion, in which I ask for those images to be sent to the police too?The NVWA often blocks the transmission of these images to the animal police then stopped by D66? I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u34	I think that has happened precisely because of the suggestion that the NVWA would block it, also expressed by itself. If criminal offences occur and if there is an investigation, all cases may be requested from the NVWA. I assume the NVWA will then cooperate with that. In that sense, therefore, it does not seem to me to be of such importance that all these images should go there, because what are these people doing with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u35	I think I have to go back to the budgetary treatment, because the NVWA does not share everything with the animal police and the Member does not share everything with the animal police. The animal police are getting frustrated. I don't get it. I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u36	Mr De Groot is using a lot of words, but I cannot understand what specific measures he is proposing. I refer to the type of language used here, sometimes called "griesm" language: it fills well, but what exactly it tastes like is not defined. I hear Mr De Groot naming the problem. I hear him asking the Minister a question. But what specific measures does he see from the government to deal with these abuses?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u37	Then I have to go back to my input. The most powerful approach is to let the consumer choose. Well, then he'd have to know what it's like in a butcher shop like that. If you buy a piece of meat... I make it very concrete, otherwise it will be too difficult. You buy a pack of meat. There's a code on it. You can use that code to see how hygiene is handled in the slaughterhouse in question. Then you read things in the media that I won't repeat here, about situations that are sometimes absolutely problematic. The same applies to animal welfare. One slaughterhouse scores better than the other. That consumer then goes to the supermarket or the butcher and says: what are you selling me now; I don't want that, I go to another, where it's better. Then that grocery store will get in touch with that abattoir very quickly to say they need to improve things. Very concrete, very practical. I don't know how to make it concrete. The control of these inspectors is a little more abstract and the connection of private and public controls is very essential, because it is about how these systems interact. The first, however, is very concrete. I think Mr Moorlag should be able to understand that as the dried grapes in his semolina.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u38	But it takes a great deal of flexibility to think that a code, a number or a few letters, which the consumer sees on a package, leads to animals being treated better in a slaughterhouse. I have a lot of agility in mind, but I can't follow it like this. How exactly can this consumer verify that the meat is good or that it is not good? Shouldn't you be using smarter camera solutions to detect where things are going well and where things aren't going well? D66 is always the party of ICT, isn't it? Should this not be done by both private parties and by the public party, supervisor NVWA?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u39	For me, it's very simple: you scan the package and you look on the website. If a slaughterhouse is in green, it means that it is fine with food safety and animal welfare. Next time, you can buy another piece of meat. If the company's on red, you're gonna do something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u40	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Geurts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u41	Mr. Chairman. Last June and also this year June reports of unnecessary suffering from animals in slaughterhouses. Shameful. It is therefore good to hear that the NVWA is acting against this. The question is, is that enough? We want the slaughter of animals not to cause any additional suffering. We want people who have no moral objections to eat meat to be able to enjoy it without worrying about it. It is therefore important to be transparent about the keeping and slaughter of animals. For this there are rules, which need to be adequately monitored. The NVWA has the task of monitoring food safety and animal welfare in the meat chain. The news in the NRC following this debate, if we go back deeply to the question of why we are having this debate, in so far as old news is concerned, it is wrong years ago. This was not only known to the NVWA, but also to these signals, including the improvement plan for the meat chain and the follow-up to the recommendation of the Research Council on Security. It is important to maintain these improvements. The Minister states that in the event of abuses, fines have been imposed on the slaughterhouses concerned. In reply to my question on repeated crime, the Minister replied that there would be no additional punishment. I have a question for the Minister. Would it make more sense to punish identical or similar offences by the same slaughter? If not, why not? Compliance reports show that compliance is high. It requires a lasting effort from the slaughter to keep it that way. The latest compliance report on poultry slaughter shows that compliance with most of the parameters remains good, but with room hygiene, I suspect the floor, seems to be slightly less. Mr De Groot has just spoken about it. I ask the Minister: is there an explanation for this? And what was the response of the poultry abattoirs to this report? I also wonder what has happened to the hygiene of meat coming in from foreign abattoirs. What can we do to ensure that supervision and enforcement are in order in relation to abattoirs across borders? Mr. Chairman. In the previous debate on abattoirs, following the abuses in a Belgian slaughterhouse, we discussed camera surveillance in detail. I have the following question to the Minister. What is the situation, especially with regard to the pilot? So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u42	I would like to point out, however, that double standards are applied. When I refer to what crap comes from abroad, I always get dealt with. But now Mr. Geurts calls it too. Those people are from there, too. That's why the abattoirs out there are so bad. And now suddenly nothing is said. That's double standards, guys.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u43	I think this is a very special one. I'm just asking a very open question. I would ask him again, and I say to Mr Graus: pay attention and listen. "In addition, I wonder what has happened to the hygiene of meat coming in from foreign abattoirs." Question mark. I wonder. I don't have a value judgment on right or wrong, on less or better. Then I don't understand what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u44	Mr. Geurts understands me very well. That question already contains the answer, because Mr Geurts knows that it is. Otherwise, he wouldn't ask that question. Here's what's important. All that shit coming into our country... That's how we bring people into our country who can't handle animals properly. Mr Geurts knows very well what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u45	I find it extraordinary that Mr Graus is now using me to support his own story. I'd be happy to help him with that, but not at this point. I have visited quite a number of abattoirs in the world in my life, for example in Denmark. I'd eat off the floor there, so clean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u46	Okay. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Bromet on behalf of GroenLinks. Mrs. Bromet is having her maiden speech, Mr. Graus. Mrs. Bromet is having her maiden speech, so you can't interrupt her. It's common in this house. I call Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One of the most frequently asked questions to me since I was spokesperson Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, is: are you a vegetarian? That is a logical question to a GroenLinkser, I think. The answer is no, I eat meat. In fact, my first real job when I was 15 was that of Saturday help in the butcher shop in the village where I grew up, Ilpendam. The butcher shop where I worked was closed on Monday morning. That's when they were slaughtered. The meat cow came walking from a farmer from the village along my house, and I knew: there is the steak that will be on my plate next week. The cow was killed on arrival in the slaughter area of the butchery and then cut into pieces. Those pieces were then hung in a cooler. I bumped my head sometimes when I had to get something out of the cooler on Saturday. Cutting meat with the meat machine was easy for me, but I always startled when someone ordered tongue. Holding the tongue, where you felt the papillae, reminded me a little too much that it was an animal I cut into pieces. Over the past few years, I've been eating less and less meat. Like many other people, I became increasingly aware of the enormous impact of meat eating on the environment and climate. A visit to a megastal in Brabant, in which a radio loudly drowned the screams of pigs, of small, newborn pigs, made me decide to eat only quality meat, for example organic meat. There were still adverse effects on the environment and climate. And yes, it was more expensive. But I learned how to cook without meat. Then once in a while a piece of meat was ultimately cheaper than every day a kilopnatter on my plate. The way GroenLinks looks at meat consumption runs a little parallel to my own behavior. GroenLinks does not ban meat eating, but it does aim at meat production that respects animal welfare and the environment and which is not aimed at supplying everyone with a piece of meat every day. And GroenLinks strives for a meat production that is also animal-worthy. Animal dignity is: a beautiful and pleasant life and a respectful death. This brings me to today's debate. Time and again it appears that the factory slaughter of animals causes situations in which animals are treated like things, absolutely not animal-worthy. Whether it be ducks, chickens or pigs, the incidents continue to accumulate. The Chamber asked dozens of questions about it. There were countless debates about it. There were more rules, there were proposals for camera surveillance, but the incidents kept coming. This leads to the following questions to the Minister. Does she think, like GroenLinks, that animals should lead an animal-worthy life in a rich and prosperous country? Does she think that there is a death worthy of animals and does she think that excesses in slaughterhouses can be eliminated? And if so, how will she arrange it? Mr. Chairman. The butcher's shop in Ilpendam has been closed for a few years, like many other small butcher's shops in the Netherlands. Food supply has become hugely large. In the largest abattoir in the Netherlands, 21,000 pigs are slaughtered a day. Meat production has become industrial. Does the Minister consider that there is a link between the size of the slaughter and the prevention of abuses? Finally. This is my first debate in plenary, but this is certainly not the first debate on abuses in slaughterhouses. That is why I have one final question for the Minister. Can she guarantee that this will be the last time I, as a Member of Parliament, debate with my colleagues about abuses in abattoirs? I sincerely hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u48	Thank you so much. Come on over here. Congratulations on your maiden speech. He was very beautiful and personal and also very open and honest. Thank you. I shall now suspend the sitting for the congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u49	Let's move on to the debate. I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar. Mr Futselaar spoke on behalf of the SP. And he's already getting applause from Mr. Graus, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u50	Yes, Mr. Chairman, you'd better get over that. Compliments for Mrs Bromet's maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. Today we are actually discussing a kind of accumulation of reports on abattoirs, whether they are images or interviews with former employees or reports that have been published through the Public Administration Act. And none of those voices are cheerful. What has made the most impression on myself are not so much images or testimonies or reports, and not even that one description of a living pig thrown into boiling water. What has impressed me most is that this is happening in front of a NVWA inspector. So this is the situation when the inspector is on the floor. That really raises the question of what it's like in those abattoirs if they don't have to put their best foot forward and if no one's watching. One of my first debates in this plenary was in May 2017. At that time we were talking about abuses in Belgian slaughterhouses. During that debate, Secretary of State Van Dam was asked what the situation was with us. Then he said, "Something goes wrong sometimes. But the control by NVWA has improved considerably, which means that abuses are detected earlier and more severe sanctions are followed." As far as the SP is concerned, it must be noted that some slaughterhouses are structurally wrong and that the control role of the NVWA is either inadequate or does not have the consequences it should have. The reality is that the mistreatment of animals in slaughterhouses is economically still too attractive, for example because the cheapest workers are used, who do not know how to deal with animals, who do not know what the Dutch welfare rules are, and in some cases do not speak the language quietly, Mr Graus. What needs to be done to counter such a trend? Make sure there's a bigger chance of getting caught and higher sanctions. Then you make it economically much less attractive to drive a crooked skate. In other words, more control, higher fines, faster closure. In July, the Minister already promised to look at the possibility of higher fines and previous closure in the event of structural infringements. That's great, but I'd like to hear about it now. What is really important for the SP is that the sanctions are up and cumulative, so not always the same fine for the same offence, time after time. That is possible, but is actually relatively little applied, it seems. The classic example comes from the pieces that RTL wrote at the time. Slaughterhouse 23, it's called there. In six months, 11 very serious offences are committed and the total penalty is €21,000 for a company that makes almost the same mistake over and over again and continues to do so. The deterrent effect of these fines is therefore zero. Almost every month the NVWA came there, found the same error and every time €1,500 fine went there. Only at the eleventh time, so after ten times, it was raised to €4,500 fine. That doesn't really sound like very punitive enforcement. And why actually slaughterhouse 23, why not just take-and-shaming? We have seen that this does happen when it comes to hygiene. Colleagues have already referred to this. Turns out there's some problems. Then we are not talking about hairnets, but about visible dirt on the carcasses and in practice about feces. In doing so, the NVWA took over naming-and-shaming. It is very sensible to do so as far as the SP is concerned, but let us take the next step and say that when we observe a violation of animal welfare rules, we call it man and horse, or the animal by the name, and then we have had all the animal puns. My final point is that when it comes to camera surveillance and making the images available, or making them available to inspectors such as NVWA, as far as the SP is concerned, we really are at the stage of volunteering, pilots and let's see what's possible are over. Last year, Secretary of State Van Dam stated that mandatory camera surveillance is complicated, but possible. So we already know that. Let us say: we are taking the next step and we are actually going to make it a fact. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u51	Perhaps the SP Group should have asked the Minister about slaughterhouse number 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u52	That's closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u53	Look, you already know the answer. Good. My question is as follows. I was just quiet. You had a three-stage missile about foreign employees in Dutch slaughterhouses. Did you really mean what you said? I take it from that that if you are not powerful in the Dutch language, you cannot function in a Dutch slaughterhouse.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u54	I think that if you do not work in the Dutch language area, you can have some problems in many places in Dutch society. If you're working on construction and someone says, "Watch out, that thing's falling," then it's problematic if you can't understand that that thing is about to fall. That doesn't mean that someone who doesn't speak Dutch couldn't work anywhere in the Netherlands, for example at a slaughterhouse, but then there has to be a degree of guidance and then you have to have a common language that you can speak and in which you can give instructions. But then I'll come back to my earlier point. If the margins are very small, if you have to make people work as cheap as possible, I doubt if there is anyone there who speaks Dutch and Polish and there can be the intermediary etc. That language here can be an issue, I think absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u55	Then you have the words "may be," but I think Mr Futselaar has no proof that he does. If he has that evidence for the allegations he just made, I'd like to see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u56	It is suggested here that I have made a harsh claim, but all I have said is that the most cheap labour is often sought in slaughterhouses. I think that you often get people who have no experience of dealing with animals, who are not aware of Dutch animal welfare legislation and who are sometimes not even powerful in the Dutch language. That's literally what I said. Let me put it this way: I think it is general knowledge that people work in abattoirs who do not have Dutch as their first language. Whether that automatically leads to problems, I can't make up my mind, but I can see here that these three things basically exist in the workplace. I don't think you should be blind to that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u57	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u58	Thank you, Mr President. As the baker bakes and sells his bread, so it is the nurse's job to give the best care to her patient and the master will teach his primary school students as best as possible. All these professions have a clear core task, and consumers, patients and pupils can therefore assume that they fulfil these core tasks. The same applies to these professions and services, of course, to other organisations or bodies. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the website of the Dutch Food and War Authority. Here I read: "The NVWA monitors the safety of food and consumer products, animal and plant health and animal welfare and enforces nature legislation." That's pretty clear. Nevertheless, it seems that our supervisor does not always manage to accomplish these core tasks, and that is worrying, all the more so because a mistake has been made over and over again and since this debate has been requested, about a year ago, there are several cases in which the NVWA finds itself wrong but does not intervene. The reason for this specific debate is the coverage of the NVWA which does not intervene in the case of abuses in slaughterhouses. Mistakes that have been shown in writing and image, and which scared everyone she read or saw, including me. For my group, it is clear that food must be safe. I am talking not only about the food that is ultimately in the supermarket, but also about a safe production process, safe and clean processing of our food and good animal care. The producer and the companies that are involved in this are responsible for this, so let there be no misunderstanding about it, but we can expect the NVWA to monitor this in its role as supervisor and if it is necessary to punish abuses or incidents and, in the extreme case, to close the company. Mr. Chairman. Images of pigs entering the hot water alive or skinned alive are hideous and unacceptable. That's not how you deal with animals. I would ask the Minister to deal with this situation: the detection of abuses, but then no or no intervention, while the supervisor is always present at the large abattoirs. I'd like a reflection. The VVD has repeatedly asked in a previous period to ensure that heavy fines can be imposed or that it can be closed in case of repeated errors, which makes you think three times before you look at the edges of the law. Can the Minister indicate whether the law and the supervisory framework are such that high fines and, in the final case, closure can actually be imposed or imposed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u59	I understand Mrs Lodder's question to the Minister, but my question to her is whether she has an opinion on it. Its party always has firm views on the fight against crime and on more severe penalties and sanctions. Does Mrs Lodders think that heavier sanctions are appropriate in order to have a greater deterrent effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u60	It's no surprise that the VVD has been asking for that for a while. In the previous period too, we argued that this was not only the VVD, but also other parties to the imposition of higher fines as structural infringements were observed. This applies not only to slaughterhouses but also to the whole process. My question is whether they are actually imposed. When I occasionally see the figures in press releases, my impression is good, so I ask the Minister's reflection that this is not the case. Because if you get a fine of €1,000 or maybe €2,000 in the case of a violation and the horrible abuses I just outlined, then that doesn't scare me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u61	That is a clear point of view. I also believe that this is a way of achieving greater balance in Mrs Lodder's contribution. She focuses her attention on the supervision of the NVWA, but the source is of course with the companies themselves. But from her reaction to my interruption, I would like to say that she would like to support a signal to the Minister to introduce higher penalties.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u62	About the latter: I would be surprised if the law had to be changed. We have asked for this very strongly in the past period. Not only the VVD, but also your party, Mr Graus, and I think almost Chamberwide. Then I wonder why that possibility isn't being used. I think the Minister should go into that. If the law doesn't work, I'd like to hear it too, because then we in the Chamber are inclined to make sure that such an adjustment is made quite quickly. Mr. Chairman. As a second reaction towards Mr Moorlag, I would like to say that I am referring very much to the NVWA, but the subject of the debate is, of course, that there have been abuses which have not been dealt with. Now I can point out to all the entrepreneurs and slaughterhouses who are primarily responsible and there is no misunderstanding about this but if people seek the edges of the law, here or on other subjects, then we should intervene. That is what I want to discuss here. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the case we are talking about today, the supervision in the slaughterhouses, is not in itself. I cannot ignore the fact that, in addition to problems of supervision and intervention by NVWA, there are other cases, but I will focus on this case today. My group has often made it a point that in all cases a supervisor should have teeth that he also shows, if necessary, and with which he is fasted in the extreme until the problems are resolved. Again in the direction of Mr Moorlag: penalties must be such that as an entrepreneur or producer you want to avoid incidents of this kind at all costs. It can't be a calculation that it's lucrative to look up the edges of the law. As an entrepreneur, you should feel responsible for the food you produce or for the utensils you sell or serve. It is important that the entrepreneur is aware of the responsibility he has. Does the Minister consider that the NVWA is the supervisor who can appeal to entrepreneurs? Do the levels of fines and the possibility of shutting down production capacity actually have that deterrent effect? If not, why is this not yet settled after repeated requests? Mr. Chairman. In recent weeks, the Minister of VWS has announced that the NVWA has asked for an independent investigation into the functioning of the service. Can the Minister elaborate on this? What is the assignment for this investigation? When should it be ready? And perhaps the most important question: what will the Minister do with the results of the investigation? In the meantime, the necessary reports have been prepared, some of which are still on the way to improvement plans and amended improvement plans. The coalition agreement agreed that a study of efficiency and cost-effectiveness should be carried out. What is the Minister going to do to reverse the tide within the NVWA? I'm rounding up. We talk about the NVWA regularly. Often it goes from incident to incident. This does not contribute to the confidence we want and need to have in food safety and product safety. The VVD therefore wants the NVWA to be that strong watchdog: a professional organisation that is respected by everyone. We face a tough challenge and with that we also look at ourselves!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u63	Mrs Ouwehand has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u64	I am pleased to hear that the VVD is actually on the same side in the wish that an offence should actually be punished and that that should also be terrifying. We too share the impression that this can and has not happened. But what does the VVD think of the situation that a slaughterhouse has started a procedure against the NVWA that has acted and then says: you are far too strict? Of course, that has happened. How does the VVD view the harassment of NVWAs in the workplace, which means that they can't maintain as well as they should?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u65	It may never be the case that inspectors who do their work are harassed by individual people in the workplace, by a company or by organisations. In this case, an inspector of the NVWA should be able to do his or her work, but that is actually the case for all supervision. That is different from what Mrs Ouwehand is actually asking at the same time: can the other party never bring a lawsuit? I think it is perfectly right, as is our case law in this country, that if you do not agree with it, you can start a procedure. But never with personal harassment of people in the workplace. That should not be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u66	Then I ask what the solution of the VVD is for that. I didn't get to it in my own term, but Mr Graus said it was happy. You could choose, for example, to always send someone from the animal police or at least establish that one NVWA inspector in his or her dead one in such a slaughterhouse is very alone. So at least make that two people, then you've got more independent review, you're stronger, and then that could be, for example, a NVWA inspector and an animal police inspector, or two NVWA inspectors. Does the VVD also see that that is really necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u67	A number of proposals are being made. In the large slaughterhouses, of which I have also visited several, I see several inspectors or inspectors. So that should be enough. I don't think it's a good move to send a cop with every inspector. If we're going to have to inspect this country like that, it's an undesirable situation. I think the inspectors should be able to do their job. I believe that there should be a degree of security and that people like them should be intimidated, that they can report to the leadership, that they respond adequately and that intervention is being taken, because that is just as much a violation. But once again, to stick all kinds of patches, I don't think it's the right solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u68	One final point, briefly. Mr Graus will continue to take up the issue of animal police, I see that he is going to do so. Mrs Lodders just said: when I am at slaughterhouses, I see that there are several inspectors there. I would also like to see this confirmed by the Minister, because until now we know that there is a permanent NVWA inspector in the large slaughterhouses. I think that should be more than one. I taste a bit that Mrs Lodder agrees with me and says that that is all the practice. I'd like to hear from the Minister if he is. If it isn't, I think we're gonna take care of it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u69	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u70	Mrs Ouwehand is now asking the Minister a question through you, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u71	I would like to respond to that, because Mrs Ouwehand obviously puts me in a direction in the mouth. That is what I have seen in practice, so it is right for Mrs Ouwehand to ask that question. But that does not alter my point that I made earlier, that inspectors, whether they are alone or with multiple inspectors, should simply be able to do the work they were called for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u72	If you are received by some, usually American companies with two people, they have three people and if you come with four people, they have five people. That's preponderance what you often have. That's also why the police often drive multiples in a van. That's not random, that's not for nothing. People are intimidated and they just need to be accompanied by animal police. The strange thing is that the slaughterhouses that are relatively good for each other have no problem with camera surveillance. They call me and say: we already have camera surveillance, we don't mind if animal police come. But it's the bastards who mind. I am also in favour of high fines, but only high fines do not work. Because then someone who has made a lot of money with fraud and animal abuse and who can pay those fines would laugh to death. So that's why we say you have to throw them in jail, give them a life-long ban on keeping animals and applying naming-and-shaming. You can't leave it alone with high fines. How's Mrs. Lodders in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u73	If the fines increase in each incident and if, in the extreme case, the company closes, if there is no improvement in several incidents, then you really deal with people. I think that will help. I think I have also said that it is a matter of dominance that there is an inspector. It has to be able to do its job, whether it's from NVWA or any other service. Then we should not stick with patches by sending extra people along or inventing all kinds of things. We live in a country in which that is respected, and that should be the measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u74	Then I may have a solution. Perhaps the coalition parties can support me in this: then start a pilot, if necessary for a year. Why don't you just go ahead and do it? Why don't you have a NVWA vet escorted by a policeman or a woman? And you'll see more peace in the camp, believe me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u75	Mr President, I think I have said enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u76	Yes. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We must be sure here in the Netherlands as citizens, as citizens, that animals are being treated correctly. The RTL broadcast has already shown that this is not the case and that the monitoring is inadequate. When you see what reaction that evokes in society, that's a reaction of horror. And it is up to us, as representatives of the people, not only to interpret this horror, but also to come up with concrete measures and proposals to eradicate these excesses. I have a broad sense of disgust among my fellow Members. But the question that remains open is: what are really effective measures to eradicate these abuses? Mr. Chairman. To my taste, the NVWA toolbox needs to be filled better; better filled with an adequate package of sanctions, but also better filled with technical tools to strengthen supervision. Camera surveillance has been advocated earlier in this Chamber; I consider it proportionate to introduce here a closed system of camera surveillance to identify whether the process from the introduction of live animals to the time of death is proceeding correctly. Why do I consider that proportionate? Because these modern tools are also used elsewhere in society. For the preservation of public order in the city centre of Groningen there are very intelligent cameras that not only record images, but are also able to give a signal to the police by means of sounds that there is probably aggression or disturbance of public order. There are really very advanced systems. I think camera surveillance can also help companies improve business processes. I don't think camera surveillance needs to be disproportionately burdensome. You can make agreements about the length of time you keep the footage and who has access to it. To my liking, the NVWA must have access to it. My question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to introduce a definitive system of camera surveillance. If the industry itself is unable to do so, is it prepared to organise perseverance? That is also a task of the government: if something does not go well in society, you make rules that can enforce it. Let me give you one more example: the shrimp industry. The abuses there were not so much in the sphere of animal welfare, but in the screening of shrimps. Too small shrimps were placed on the market. That is where the industry has managed to establish on a voluntary basis a closed system of camera surveillance. I consider the issue of animal welfare and the proper treatment of animals of a much heavier order than the type of infringements that are taking place in the shrimp industry. This also strengthens me in the belief that it should be possible to set up a close system of camera surveillance here. I think that would also benefit the NVWA. The NVWA cracks. There's a lot of work for the NVWA. With advanced tools, you could greatly improve surveillance with fewer people. Then there's the second proposal. In the interrupting debate with Mrs Lodders, I also pointed out that, in my opinion, there should be heavier sanctions. Mr Futselaar mentioned an example of a slaughterhouse where the same offences were repeated over and over again. With the pin device there is a checkout and the practices do not change. Sanctions are meant to get behavior adjusted. This is not going to happen to a sufficient degree. So heavier sanctions are needed to my liking to give the NVWA tools to provide incentives that actually lead to different behaviour of people and organisations. The third concrete proposal is that where there are repeated and structural abuses, something may go wrong everywhere, and I have simply had to close my eyes to them. At slaughterhouse 23, which was cited, this was the case, but the slaughterhouse itself decided to do so. In my view, the NVWA must take the first step and also be able to close down slaughterhouses where it is structurally failing. My question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to get that sanction applied sooner and more quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u78	Yes, Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u79	I hear Mr Moorlag making three concrete proposals. In particular, I would like to focus on the second concrete proposal on fines and structural infringements. Does Mr Moorlag intend to table a motion on this subject in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u80	That depends on the Minister's response. I would prefer the Minister to promise that she will go down that road. But if not, I am prepared to table a motion on this, which I hope will be able to obtain a majority in this Chamber. I have listened very carefully to Mrs Lodder's contribution and I assume that, in view of her contribution, she would like to support it. There were also warm words from Mr De Groot about the link between the code on the label and the registering of the wrongdoing. I think there is a gap in that that can also be closed with some heavier sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u81	On Friday 6 July the summer recess began and I have learned to read letters that come in that period of the cabinet very well. We received a letter from the Minister on July 6th. And what does it say? It says, I quote: 'In the light of recent reports on slaughterhouses, I indicated that I wanted to see whether administrative penalties could be increased and whether structural violations could lead to an early closure of abattoirs'. It's already in the cabinet's letter, so those facts are known to the Chamber and we're just waiting to see what the minister comes up with. So if you have or consider that motion, you do not have to do so, because it has already been filled out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u82	I have also read that letter, but the issue at stake is whether it is actually going to happen. For let us be, this debate, that on abuses, is not being held here for the first time. This has been repeated here, and several speakers have also spoken of heavier sanctions, but these heavier sanctions have not yet been introduced. So I want to know from the Minister whether she really wants to introduce it. If that commitment is not firm, I believe that the Chamber is in a position to give a ruling on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u83	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes, so until 4:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u84	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's always a good privilege to be able to congratulate someone. In this case, I am delighted to do so. I congratulate Mrs Bromet, who gave her maiden speech, on a beautiful personal maiden speech. That is always a moment where you can show some of your own beliefs or your own motivations. I think Mrs Bromet certainly did. We've also learned a lot about her. She just started a Saturday job at the butcher shop. Sometimes you think: huh, a maiden speech? But I have the impression that I have been having debates with this person for so long. So that is also the case here. I was slightly surprised that Mrs Bromet hadn't made her maiden speech yet, but that actually says a lot about the professionalism and the way in which she got into this committee and is already fully involved in all the debates. Happy birthday, though! Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the content of this debate. The debate has been going on for some time now, but there have been more and more reasons for it to go on. It started last year with the coverage in the NRC and just before the summer there was RTL's coverage of the abuses in slaughterhouses and the situation in the Netherlands. I think Chamberwide is shared that these kinds of messages and images just can't leave you untouched. It's just not okay when you see animals being treated in a certain way and not being slaughtered according to the guidelines. We must not accept the fact that there are abuses. I hear it's being shared in Chambers. Then there will be a lot of questions. What exactly is going on here? And how could this happen? Let me say in general that abuses are unacceptable, but I also see that there are slaughterhouses that are doing well. We have chosen to be more transparent in how these slaughterhouses operate. This is not only to show what is going wrong, but also to show that there are slaughterhouses that are able to do this job very well. I recently visited a slaughterhouse with NVWA inspectors. I asked: what do you see when things are going well or not going well? In general, they said: you can see that it goes well when slaughterhouses have their own quality assurance in order. There are no or minimal abuses in slaughterhouses that have this in order. If that happens, they are also very appealing. They are trying to improve it and do it the way we agreed. Mr. Chairman. But in other places things sometimes, unfortunately, really go wrong. In this light, we have seen before the summer, also around the RTL report, that in a number of cases it has gone very wrong. There is also talk here about slaughterhouse 23. This is also because RTL's information came from a WOB request, in which those data were anonymised at that time, and the conclusion is that the slaughterhouse is finally closed. As far as I am concerned, that is also the order of things. If it doesn't improve, it's gonna have to be shut down. I have also indicated in the summer that Mr Geurts reads his letters very faithfully, I have noticed that it is my ambition to look closely at the fines. How can we allow this to act as a deterrent? But the letter also states that there will be closure when there really is no improvement. Mr. Chairman. Questions have been asked in different categories. Perhaps it would be a good idea if I first explained the way in which I wanted to shape the answer, in the hope that I would serve everyone with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u86	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u87	I will start with the question of fines, and I would like to go into more detail about what is going on now, what we intend to do about it and when I can inform the Chamber about it. Next, I come to the questions about camera surveillance, the questions about NVWA in general, which are part of the role and functioning of the NVWA and some other, more specific points raised by the various Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u88	As far as slaughterhouse 23 is concerned, I agree with Mr Moorlag, who said: yes, it is closed, but not by the government. It was probably bankrupt before that, but still. Perhaps the Minister can clarify the following in order to avoid a motion. Do I understand from her that we are either going to get a proposal for higher fines, cumulative fines, or something like that, or a note saying, "I'm not going to do that for that and that reason"? 'Cause that's just gonna save you from filing a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u89	I agree with Mr Geurts on this point. In my opinion, I indicated in the letter that I am looking at how the fines can be increased and how the closure of slaughterhouses can be carried out earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u90	I have read the letter and I have quoted it in my own speech, but I just want to ensure that I am informed of the outcome of the considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u91	Sure. I would now like to state where we stand and what is going on, but of course the Chamber will be informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u92	The Minister has made a few general comments on how she is in it. All the support for that. I've been looking at the NVWA website. Congratulations on that, by the way. It is very insightful and also very easy to follow on an iPad. I came to a company called Holland Meat Service. The Minister may not know it at once, but that is the former Van Hattem company, known from the horse meat affair. So that's not a very good company. When I look at how this company is doing, I see that it is 58% when it comes to the supply of clean animals and 33% when it comes to the temperature for disposal. In between, too, hygiene is simply not in order and animal welfare...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u93	In short, the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u94	How are you going to do that? These compliance rates are very low. As a consumer, I really don't want anything from this company in the Netherlands, because with compliance rates like this, you have to fry your meat really well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u95	Maybe it's a good thing that I give you what our flight route is right now around the fines and closing it if it really gets out of hand. The NVWA already has a specific intervention policy. This intervention policy is already being adapted and aligned with the strengthened general intervention policy. So we are already looking at what can be done more precisely at the moment. This specific intervention policy will enter into force very soon. In short, this means less warning and faster fines. That is basically the essence of this intervention policy. In addition, violations of welfare and death rules as of 1 July 2016 have already been placed in a higher category of fines. Before that date the fine was €1,500. It has now been raised to €2,500. In the event of serious infringements, the fine may be doubled. So steps have already been taken to raise the fine. In order to keep notorious offenders closer to the skin, the NVWA can accumulate fines in the event of repeated violations. This means that not the same amount is imposed each time, but that the amount of the fine is added to the last fine for each new infringement. It is therefore €2,500 for the first offense, €5,000 for the second offense, €7,500 for the third offense and so on. So there's actually always an exponential fine behind it. I must say, however, that there must be the exact same offence. That is, of course, also the complexity that the NVWA stands for, and that is also where the legal difficulty lies. Because then you will just see that there is a small piece that is very similar, but that it is not exactly the same as the offence for which you have imposed a fine. Then you can't just apply it. The company can then say: yes, but this is not the same offence at all; this is a completely different offense. If you are going to bring that to justice, it will say: you must indeed be able to justify that it is the same offence; otherwise you cannot simply apply it. That's what we're looking at right now, and that's kind of a complicated one. That's what I'm gonna say. Because on the one hand you have to avoid really opening up all the space, so that it can all go in all directions. At the same time, we must be able to say that this is really in the same kind of offence, so we should also be able to impose higher fines here. It's gonna take some time to figure that out legally. That's what we're doing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u96	Thank you. That's a very clear explanation. My question concerns the general picture. You have, of course, specific violations; that is where I see the difficulty the Minister is describing. But you also have an enforcement image of a company, for example: I would not wish for a consumer to have one piece of meat from this company. Does that mean that you are going to withdraw the approval earlier? A company must have some kind of approval, and the minister can of course withdraw it if it does not perform properly by the bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u97	That is my second point. That's about the closure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u98	Good. Then you'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u99	Because it's about the fines now, I'm asking my question now. I'm struggling a lot. We adapted the Animal Law in a previous period. The Minister refers to that. As of 1 July 2016, higher administrative fines are possible. These can reach up to €820,000 or even up to 10% of the annual turnover. If the incidents we've seen have actually occurred... I do not want to have the debate here on what kind of fine is involved in what incident. But the Chamber has so strongly advocated higher fines. Are they being imposed or not? Again, we should not have that discussion here, but a pig is skinning alive, what does that mean? In fact, I am sorry to note that we feel that not much has happened in this area during the intervening period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u100	But the fines are the subject the Minister is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u101	That's what I'm talking about right now, so that other question can be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u102	Then you'll take him right away. That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u103	Yeah, sure, because I think I just explained what did happen. This is about administrative fines imposed precisely on the basis of the Animal Law. Mrs Lodders mentioned a very high amount, but that is not necessarily the amount that you are allowed to release on this kind of offence. The judge also always checks on proportionality. I can tell you that at the moment there are some things going on with the CBb in which this question lies: is the fine imposed by NVWA proportionate? If it comes to court, then the NVWA must also prove itself that what they impose is proportionate to the offence that takes place. That is precisely where we must succeed in ensuring that this kind of matter is not referred back and that it is not said: this is not based on the law as it is stated. This is exactly the legal exercise we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u104	I just want to... The Minister has indicated that she is going to deal extensively with fines.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u105	This is the block of fines. I'm gonna go to closure in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u106	Yes, if you are going to deal with all the points by interruption, that is fine with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u107	I asked my question because the minister was talking about fines. This is the greatest struggle, including for my group. Again, we have had this debate in this Chamber before. I also said in my input that we're going from incident to incident. We as a group want to get rid of that. The Minister outlined the dilemmas and, in particular, the legal aspect. I think we should have the debate on this rather than discuss here what kind of fine is involved in what offence. Again, the alleged abuses are not minor offences, I feel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u108	That's what you're saying. I'm feeling it. We do live here in a society in which we also have to make it legal. That's exactly what the NVWA does. The suggestion that the NVWA ignores these kinds of cases and does not issue fines is not true. It is precisely those in business who are not doing well who dispute that the fine is in line with the offence committed. If we're all so sorry about this, I'm gonna make an appeal to the business community. That is in order to show that it really is of good will and that it wants to take responsibility for this. At a time when we are raising all kinds of fines here and looking at, for example, the sanctioning instruments and they are constantly putting something in the legal context by saying that something is not a successive violation at any given point... We live in the rule of law, so they can do this. I can only see that we will then have another debate here on the increase in fines in general, which actually puts an entire sector in a bad light again. I would therefore say: make sure that the good abattoirs that are really there are really bad ones appeal to them and tell them to take good care of their business and make sure that they have things in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u109	Has the subject of fines been dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u110	Yeah, I'm trying to move on to the closing point right now, but that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u111	Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u112	On the issue of fines, I would like to point out that here in this Chamber I have a broad signal that sanctions are not proportionate to the nature of the offences. I understand the Minister's answer that you can only proceed with an increased fine if the law requires that exactly identical cases are involved. Isn't it reasonable to change that rule? In criminal law, the judge also checks whether you already have a criminal record and not whether you committed exactly the same offence. Apparently, there's a limitation in the rules. And we in this house are the ones who are about the rules. The rules and space for the NVWA must then be extended. Does the Minister share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u113	I think that is exactly what I have just said. We are currently looking at what is needed and possible and what we may need to do, including under the law, to ensure that we can really get these things done, including legally. We do not want this repetition to mean that it is exactly the same offence as the previous one and we are wondering what repetition means and how we can keep it legally sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u114	I welcome this answer, because I can see that the Minister has reservations and reservations. I now understand that, given the limitations in the rules, she is prepared to adapt and broaden them and to submit them to the Chamber, so that NVWA can be given more room to impose sanctions, in line with the feelings of this Chamber and my position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u115	I indicated in the letter, but also in response to Mr Futselaar's first interruption, that I will inform your Chamber in the autumn of how we think we can do that. Then this will be included in this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u116	I do agree with Mrs Lodder. I also have to ask whether that finding out what the NVWA can and cannot do has not happened all this time. I note with the Minister that companies that are being punished are going to go to court and look for loopholes in the law, apparently. That's super boring, but this problem isn't new. Why has the situation become so according to the Minister's analysis? What happened in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u117	I think I just indicated what happened in the meantime. 1 July 2016 the cases were placed in a higher category of fine. That was €1,500 and that went to €2,500. It has also become possible to stack the fines. We are already finding that cases of this kind are rather complicated in the courts, because you have to be able to state very specifically that it has been repeated. It shall be proportionate and proportionate. That means that we are now looking at how we can ensure that we can support that in such a way that it also holds up in court. That's the playing field we're in all the time. In addition, I am now looking at what might be needed in the law to make that more clear. It started in July 2016. You can imagine that if fines are issued and there is a court ruling, then you're a little further, but we're working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u118	I believe that the Minister is working on it now, but the question is above all what we can learn from it. So what's the root cause? Were the categories not sufficiently defined, were the standards too open? The Animal Law is full of open standards, after which the NVWA must develop a whole enforcement protocol, before it can enforce such a standard. That's what we see in other situations. Is that what's going on here? I'd like an analysis. For example, there is also a category that can be imposed on 10% of turnover as a fine. That didn't happen to my knowledge. I would like to hear from the Minister why this has not been done so far, because feeling in the Chamber is that this fits in with the nature of these violations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u119	Yes, that is the feeling, but we need to have it legally sustainable and then you come to the point of proportionality and then the discussion is: when is it proportional to impose such a large fine? That is constantly the debate you are having with the judge in a manner of speaking. I'm trying to indicate that we're looking at how we can make sure that that question can be answered better. At the time when there is a case and the NVWA imposes fines, after which a company goes to court, it should not be so that it is not proportionate to the nature of the infringement. That is in the law and perhaps also in how intervention policy has been shaped. We are already taking a number of steps. I will inform the Chamber in the autumn of exactly what that is exactly, because that is what we are looking at ourselves now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u121	Yeah, exactly. My wish would be to have a very clear analysis of this, because I believe that this is not just a matter of fines for slaughterhouses, but perhaps it is a broader problem that we need to solve in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u122	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u123	Then there is the suspension or closure of slaughterhouses. On the basis of the European Control Regulation, this can be done, provided that it is proportionate; there it is again. If individual employees of the slaughterhouse commit animal abuse on their own initiative, they can be prosecuted individually. The certificate and their professional competence may also be withdrawn, which means that they will no longer be able to work in a slaughterhouse. In the letter to the Chamber, I also announced that I will look into whether that new specific intervention policy and those measures and sanctions that are imposed are effective enough and lead to a change in behaviour. I will inform you about this in the autumn, as I have just indicated. I will, of course, also discuss what follow-up steps are possible and necessary. I think we will have the debate on this when that information is available. Mr President, so much for fines, more specifically for slaughterhouses. Mr Graus has asked for the names of animal executioners, as he calls them, to be made public and to impose huge fines. He also asked whether there could be prison sentences for animal executioners and a life-long restraining order. We have just decided to publish the names of slaughterhouses and how they perform, but not of individual slaughterhouse staff. I wouldn't go there either. Only, of course, the person who has the slaughterhouse is generally responsible for what is happening in that slaughterhouse. Therefore, if he finds that there are employees who commit certain offences, that will eventually be indirectly reflected in the report. I think it is also the responsibility of the owner of such a slaughterhouse to address his staff. As I have just indicated, individual staff of the slaughterhouse who are guilty of animal abuse can be prosecuted individually, but that is very much aimed at the issue of animal abuse by one individual. The bill restraining order, with a restraining order as an independent sentence, which I have already stated before is sent to the Chamber in the short term by the Minister of J and V. To put it more generally: for animal executioners a maximum prison sentence of three years and a fine of €20,750 is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u124	I'd prefer it all much higher if I could, but I was talking about a life-long restraining order. That's different from raising a restraining order, including from three to ten years. I just think that animal executioners should be given a life-long restraining order. What matters is naming-and-shaming. I did mean companies, because I know it's very dangerous for individuals, because people are literally lynched. There will also be other problems and families will get through. So it's very dangerous. I know, and I didn't mean it like that. Fortunately, I did not say it that way, but I did refer to companies. Because now the names of companies are also announced, Mr Futselaar, just during the suspension with hygiene problems and that kind of thing. Thus it can also be made known if there are abuses with animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u125	What Mr Futselaar just mentioned was precisely the broad analysis. It's not just about hygiene. We have just begun to make public the performance of slaughterhouses. Hygiene is part of that, but it is about many more things, such as animal welfare aspects. I think we have just done exactly what Mr Graus is asking. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the point of camera surveillance. Indeed, in 2017 my predecessor spoke to me about the images at the slaughterhouse in Tielt and the issue of camera surveillance. At the time, your Chamber requested the use of camera surveillance in all Dutch slaughterhouses. That's what the Old-Hand motion was about. My predecessor then made agreements on the voluntary deployment of cameras with COV, VSV and NEPLUVI, and informed the Chamber accordingly. More than 90% of bovine and porcine animals and more than 95% of poultry are slaughtered in the holdings affiliated to these organisations. In addition, agreements have been made whereby smaller slaughterhouses, which are affiliated with the Royal Dutch Butchers, where more than ten livestock units are slaughtered on a weekly basis, will join. At that time, agreements were made with the sector on the conditions for camera surveillance and the execution of a pilot. Due to the privacy aspect, the cameras are targeted in such a way that all process steps from leading up to the stunning and killing of the animals are portrayed, so it is best to listen closely to how you target the cameras in relation to privacy. The NVWA gets access to the images and can use them as a complement to regular monitoring. We started that pilot. Its first phase has been completed and is currently being evaluated. It was completed in August, so that's pretty recent. I will inform you about this shortly. This pilot will be extended, drawing on the experience of the first phase. With regard to the extension of the pilot, I would like to call on the slaughterhouses to participate themselves. If you have nothing to hide and if you're just doing well, I'd say: make sure you're there, because then you can show it's all in order. Yesterday or the day before yesterday I saw a broadcast of EenDag in which a spokesperson from the COV said: those cameras are all long gone. Well, then I'd say, that's good; then they can all participate in the pilot. Then we can make sure that the NVWA also has access to those images. So I am glad that the COV has indicated in that respect that they already have cameras like that everywhere. Then I think it would be a small effort to make those images available to the NVWA. It is my ambition to have as many abattoirs as possible participating in the pilot, which is voluntary. With regard to the evaluation of the pilot, I will inform you of the next steps in that process. There is a discussion about whether or not to introduce a legal obligation. I'd like to see what comes out of that pilot first. As far as voluntary registration is concerned, I have heard that companies say they have nothing to hide. Well, fine, then we'll join in. I'd like to send that information to the Chamber first. Mr De Groot asked what exactly happened to that pilot. How many companies are involved? Three companies are currently participating in the pilot project. That's a cattle-slaughter house, a pig-slaughter house and a poultry-slaughter house. Again, as far as I'm concerned, there's gonna be a lot more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u126	I'd like to know if you've finished answering the question of camera surveillance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u127	Yes, I think I have answered a lot of Members' questions on this point at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u128	Okay, I'll go see Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u129	In itself, the Minister's approach sounds very reasonable, if it were not for her predecessor to say Mr Van Dam: I expect it to be settled by the end of 2017 with voluntary camera surveillance. He also said: I think it's a good idea for everyone to cooperate, because they say they have nothing to hide and those cameras are usually already there. I have seen the same broadcast as the minister, but I heard the spokesperson of that meat organization say: yes, we do have cameras, but it is of course a question of whether we are going to give a private image, because that is ours, to the NVWA. We are now in half of 2018. So I would think: if the target were at the end of 2017, then perhaps it would be a good signal if the Minister said that she would at least prepare the legal basis if companies did not come forward voluntarily soon enough. Is the Minister prepared to begin these preparations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u130	I have taken a very precise look at what my minister said, promised or whatever. In the letter to the Chamber of 22 May 2017, he talks about the commitment to achieve the use of closed circuit TV in the supervision of NVWA on the basis of voluntary agreements with the business community. He says he'll be in a protocol setting out how that's gonna happen. That protocol's closed, too. He also states that he will first start a pilot to see how things are going and that he will also involve these experiences in the next steps. Well, I think that's exactly what I'm doing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u131	But we also saw that spokesperson of the meat organization yesterday in EenVandaag. In Question Time, Mr Van Dam, the minister's predecessor, certainly said that we should be able to do so quickly and everyone should simply cooperate, because everyone says that they have nothing to hide. Then I'm just surprised that a pilot so far has three participants and that the decision to just cooperate on it is obviously not clear yet. Then it helps to prepare that legal basis, because it's gonna take time. We're not gonna wait a year, and another year, and then conclude that it still has to be legal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u132	I've already expressed my ambition here. Those companies say: the cameras are there and we have nothing to hide. Well, join us! We now also have the experiences from the pilot. Now we can see what works and what doesn't. We must indeed look closely at the hooks and eyes attached to them, including with regard to privacy. If we're gonna do it, we're gonna have to make sure we're doing okay right away. We will also talk to the sector on the basis of the results of the pilot. We will tell you what our experiences are and say: we believe that this is the way to do it, and you can go on! Then I think it is rather premature to put legislation on that right now. I just want to put all the energy in there. That really seems like the fastest way. Because before you have a law, until that law is passed, all these companies can sit back and say, "We'll just wait and see."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u133	Mrs Ouwehand, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u134	Then my question is: when does the Minister have her decision? Because the motion passed says camera surveillance in all slaughterhouses. That's what the Chamber wants. The Minister is working with a pilot and is in consultation. But at what point does she say: that's enough? Is that for Christmas? Does that mean everyone's gonna be in on it? Is that after Christmas? When can we expect the decision? Because it has to be done; the Chamber has already said so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u135	I think my predecessor has already indicated how he deals with it. He didn't say he was gonna make it. There is some light between Mrs Ouwehand's explanation of the motion and how my predecessor reacted to it, but that aside. I have indicated that, on the basis of the pilot, I will see what the experiences are and what the possible obstacles we are going to take with us. I'm going to inform the Chamber about that. This is also about how to increase voluntaryity, accession. I think I will inform the Chamber about the results in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u136	Autumn 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u137	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u138	The following is separate from the question of whether it is voluntary or on a legal basis. I also have a preference for volunteering, you know. However, I would like to focus on the level of ambition of the Minister and whether that is in line with the signal given to this Chamber. Aside from the road through which it is reached, does the Minister agree with me that the final situation should be that there should be a closed system of camera surveillance, in which the NVWA has access to the images?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u139	I'd like to see what the experiences are with the pilot. I have to say that I haven't got them on my desk myself, because the pilot was closed in August. We also need to see what the information on that is. But it seems to me good if camera surveillance in support of the regular supervision is used by NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u140	You state that it is desirable. I think that is a step forward, but of course it is only a step on a road that should lead to the final goal. Is the Minister's final objective that there should be a closed system of camera surveillance, even from my point of view, that preferably on a voluntary basis, where the NVWA has access to the images?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u141	It is my ambition to allow as many companies as possible to participate in camera surveillance. I prefer to do so on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u142	What about the NVWA's access?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u143	This also means that the NVWA has access to those images. That seems to me to be the goal we are working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u144	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u145	In my opinion, these were the questions concerning camera surveillance. Then I come to the block general NVWA. That is a rather broad block in which several questions have been asked. How's it going with the NVWA? How are they working there now? Is supervision going to be as it should be? We hope that is the case. I just indicated to you that I myself recently went to a slaughter house myself. I also spoke with the vets there, with those of the NVWA who work there. Let me first say that I have great respect for the work they do. It's pretty intense work. We are all doing intensive work, so that is no reason to be impressed. But they're very professional people. They are there every day to make sure that our food is safe, to ensure that animal welfare is protected and to ensure that the legal rules we lay down here are implemented in practice. Then it is quite good to hear what they run into and to see what they think is better and what is not. These are matters that they also discuss with their own management and that are also taken up within the NVWA itself. Let me also say that the first responsibility for dealing with animals properly in a slaughterhouse lies with the owner of the slaughterhouse. That's where it starts. Then there may be all kinds of wishes, ideas and perhaps comments about the functioning of the NVWA, but I would really like us to focus our energies first on those who cause the abuses. We should recognize this with each other, always looking at how the work of the NVWA can be improved, but in that order. A number of specific questions have been asked, including the connection between public oversight and private systems. Mr De Groot asked for this. It is actually a somewhat larger question, because it is not just about slaughterhouses, but about the whole system of supervision. Let me put it this way. This is also explicitly taken into account in the elaboration of the cabinet response to the Sorgdrager report. It was one of the points of the Sorgdrager committee, which also pointed out this. It was, of course, very explicit at the time about the egg chain, but this question is actually broader and is widely addressed in cooperation with industry. You can expect the cabinet response in the autumn. It really is a bigger question than I can answer in this debate. Moreover, we are still working to improve this guarantee. That is why I think it is good to have the more substantive debate on this. Mr De Groot also said that the consumer has a right to know from which slaughterhouse his piece of meat comes and how animal welfare and food safety have been handled. Can this hole be closed? In fact, this is a question about labelling. Not to send Mr De Groot from the cabinet to the wall, but labelling is on the premises of my colleague from VWS. I would like to discuss this with him before I commit all sorts of things. I don't like talking for my colleague when I'm not the first to talk about it. But I'll discuss it with my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u146	I understand that, but would the Minister like to come back to that in a letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u147	This is something I really need to put with the colleague of VWS. I'll put this question to him. May I leave it to the colleague of VWS how he gets back to that? I will pass on the wishes of the Chamber, but I think it is a little premature for my colleague...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u148	The point is that the Chamber knows what happens and who picks it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u149	Of course, we only have one government. We have this often, of course, that the government has been divided up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u150	This is the same as Mr Graus sometimes asks for the restraining order. That's with my colleague from J and V. I find it difficult to make all kinds of binding statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u151	A letter stating what is done with it, which department takes over or that the Chamber is informed in due course would be useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u152	I will ask him if he sees any possibility of drawing up a note on how he deals with this question. It may be a procedural answer, possibly a substantive answer. Mr Graus asked about the mobile killing stations. This autumn, a pilot with mobile slaughter units will be launched, in which the stunning, killing and the first stage of slaughter can take place on the farm. That pilot is expected to run until the summer of 2019. So that will be started soon, I say to Mr Graus. Mrs Bromet asked whether the Minister could indicate the link between the size of the slaughterhouse and the number of abuses. It asks whether there is any correlation between them. It's about a number of incidents. I don't speak it right, but the picture isn't that things go wrong all over the place. I really want to get rid of that. The abuses that exist occur both in large and medium-sized slaughterhouses, but sometimes also in small abattoirs. In general, therefore, this link cannot be established. There are good and bad examples in both groups. As you have also seen, we have now also made public the compliance scores of slaughterhouses, so that there is more information about what kind of slaughterhouses they are and how they are doing now. More generally, Mrs Lodders asks me to reflect on the NVWA and its functioning. She said that there are now all sorts of things in which the NVWA is not doing well in her opinion. We are discussing the NVWA here in this Chamber on a regular basis. I think I'm quite transparent about how things are going there, but I'm going to record it here for the NVWA. That is an organisation that has a lot of responsibilities and where every day a lot of checks take place in any field. We are now debating the slaughterhouses, but there are thousands of inspectors working every day in all kinds of fields. Can things be better there? Yes. That doesn't just apply to the NVWA. I also see it in other organisations, and also in myself: I also make mistakes; things can be better there. Does the NVWA work on improvement? Yes. The NVWA is working on all kinds of improvement projects to make sure that things are going better where things are not going well, because of course we are not satisfied that things are not always going well. But let us also appreciate the work that is being done, although we may not hear so much about it at all. That is also a sign that a lot of things just go there as we intended. Mrs. Lodders specifically asked about the matter that came out this week. I find this case, in all honesty, of such a nature that I do not want to raise it here in this debate. There are a lot of emotions and many aspects involved. I don't have all the information about that either. A lot of cases are still under investigation. I don't think this is the time to talk about that. By the way, I would like to take away the image that is now being examined by the whole organisation. I have indicated that there is a thorough investigation at the NVWA on this particular point about what has not gone well in this case, or perhaps it has, but that a number of things should have gone differently. It is not, therefore, the case that the inquiry on which a communication was sent to the Chamber last week concerns the whole organisation, but we, as the owner of the NVWA, have indeed commissioned such an investigation. In the meantime, an agency has also been selected to carry out that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u153	Let me get this straight. I did not ask to reflect on this incident, quite the contrary, because I do not think that is appropriate, especially in this debate. I have indicated that there have been several incidents and I have one set of questions to ask anyway. My question was meant in general terms. I understand, also from the reports I have seen, that an investigation has been requested, and a broad investigation. I hear the Minister say something different about that now. Then I would like to ask the Minister to give a more specific explanation of exactly what the research assignment is. It's okay to do that by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u154	I believe that we have just stated, in the letter sent to the Chamber two days ago, that we, as owners, will have an investigation carried out on this particular point. It has not been announced that there would be a very wide-ranging investigation of the NVWA. It's really about what happened there. What were the circumstances there? How did it happen? But most importantly, what is needed to learn lessons from it? That is what is needed. But I think this has given me the clarity that Mrs Lodder has asked for. Mr Geurts asked about hygiene in foreign slaughterhouses. We are very secure with our own slaughterhouses, he says, and rightly so. He's telling us there's going to be some imports to our country. What about it? It is the responsibility of each slaughterhouse to slaughter hygienically. The authorities of the EU Member States also monitor this under the common EU legislation. The European Commission is also monitoring this. The new European rules on controls in the slaughterhouse also lay down explicit rules on slaughterhouse hygiene. I do not know exactly what is happening in which slaughterhouse in which country, but I note that all meat entering the EU market must meet the same safety standards. It is the European Commission that determines whether the Member States comply with the rules laid down at European level. Mr Geurts also said that the latest reports on compliance by poultry slaughterhouses showed that compliance with most of the parameters proved to be good. However, the hygiene of rooms seems to be a little less. Mr Geurts assumes that this is the floor. He's asking if this is true and if I can explain this. It is true that most of the comments are about the floors and the walls. It is then up to the companies, if they so wish, in consultation with the local supervisor of NVWA to look for the cause and take that path. The sector indicated that this decline was not expected. People were surprised about that themselves. According to them, no less attention has been paid to this lately. The NVWA is now being consulted to find out exactly what is going on and above all to ensure that the situation is improved where it needs to be improved. I think I answered the questions about the NVWA. I've come to the block of other questions. A question could have belonged to the NVWA block and it is about the inspectors. Mr Graus asks why they are not accompanied by the animal police. Intimidation of NVWA employees is, of course, unacceptable. That's not going to be tolerated either. If this does occur, it is a matter for the ordinary police and not for the animal police. There may also be a report. The NVWA employs boas and in cases where this is effective, criminal law can also be used. That doesn't require the use of the animal police. There are opportunities to act against this. We have a system in which this can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u155	I also mentioned the boas of the NVWA in my motion. I mentioned animal welfare as well as NVWA inspectors. Let me give you an example. There was a disturbance on the Square the other day. If two people from the Marechaussee walk there, it does much more than three city guards walk there. Let's be very honest about that. The people of the animal police are well-equipped and have all the weapons around them. That forces a lot more respect than people from NVWA. With all due respect, it's just true. That's why the American police look so tough. That's all psychological dominance, that's all been considered. The people of the animal police force much more respect. When it comes to animals, it is definitely the animal police and not the regular police. That's bullshit. I myself drew up the covenants together with Minister Opstelten in 2011. I had my own say about that. That is what the animal police are all about. The story just doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u156	It is not a question of whether one or the other is about it. I say that there can be a report at the time of harassment. That's not explicitly invested in the animal police.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u157	The latter is true, of course. But what matters to me and also to Mrs Ouwehand is why you don't just go with a vet from NVWA, especially in the case of high-risk visits. That's literally what my motion says "in case of high-risk visits," because those inspectors know damn well where they're gonna get problems. An animal policeman or woman is gonna let go. Then there will be peace in the camp. If necessary, I have also asked Mrs Lodders, and I am now asking the Minister, through the President, on a trial basis. Do it three months if necessary and just look at what that calm creates for those NVWA vets, because those people just feel unsafe. They don't feel safe. There are also women with these NVWA veterinarians and they feel really intimidated and unsafe. They'll report it to me. They're afraid to report it because they're afraid to lose their jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u158	You've passed it on now. Then the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u159	At the slaughterhouse where I was, there was also a female veterinarian. I spoke to management there, too. I also talked to the supervisor about the question of how many people you are at such an inspection. I am also saying this in response to Mrs Ouwehand's question through Mrs Lodder's was that, I believe, whether you should put several inspectors at a slaughterhouse. There are slaughterhouses where there are several inspectors. That also has to do with the size of the slaughterhouse. But this is about more than just putting cops in there. This is also about how to engage with these slaughterhouses to ensure that if intimidation is experienced, it is reported, that it is said to be unacceptable and that it is indicated that you cannot leave it at that. It's also a conversation you're having with the slaughterhouse where you are. I think it is particularly good that there are short lines with the managers of those inspectors, of those veterinarians, when it is experienced that way. I have to say that the person I was with was experienced that way. But I do not think that the solution is simply to send the animal police along with it, and I also have that discussion with Mr Graus, because we also need the animal police in so many other places where things have to be investigated and abuses have to be dealt with. I therefore believe that a good guarantee in the organisation, the talks you have with the slaughterhouses themselves and ultimately also the declaration if the situation does not improve should be the escalation ladder that we should follow. On this point, Mr De Groot asked a question about the amount of management layers of NVWA. He asks what they all do and whether we should shape that in this way. It is much more about the size of the part in question than about the number of layers of management: what is the span or control of someone, what should he supervise? The number of employees managed by management at NVWA is similar to that in other organisations. So it's not like there's a lot more in there. It's really about how many people are covered. The team leaders are, of course, responsible for the proper implementation of the statutory tasks of supervision and must also take care of them, but they are also the ones who guide the employees. I had just had a discussion with Mr Graus about how you deal with it when there is intimidation. Mrs Ouwehand mentioned the point of the whistleblowers, just to mention it. She asked if those people would be heard. I always want to be open to sounds from the organization when things are experienced there that one thinks are not as they should be and no room is felt to report. It does happen that someone like that does come forward. It is my intention, in my view, that this should also be done to ensure that such a person can really have a conversation with the person who is going to talk about it and has something to say about it. I think that we should simply be open and transparent about this, because people should not feel that they can't get their story out somewhere. So the moment someone like that reports to me, I will at least do my utmost. It happens sometimes that I pass those signals through. Mr President, I come to Mrs Bromet's somewhat more fundamental questions. She asks if I think animals in a prosperous country should have an animal worth living. Do I think that an animal-worthy death is part of this and that there should be no excesses in abattoirs? Yes, I think animals should have an animal-worthy existence, and I also think that if they are killed, that should be done in a proper and responsible way. That is why we are always working on monitoring, inspections and now we are also having this debate. But this is also laid down in the Animal Law, and also in the Killing Regulation. I think the last term is a little macabre, but that's what the regulation is called. Any form of avoidable suffering must be avoided. Slaughterhouses therefore need to handle animals carefully. As far as I am concerned, that is also a moral duty of everyone. There are incidents, excesses that should not occur. That is what we are working on, and we are having this debate on it, and the NVWA is also acting against it. The answer to Mrs Bromet's last question may also be the bouncer. She asked: can the Minister guarantee that this is the last time that the Chamber is debating abuses in abattoirs? I think this is Mrs Bromet's first debate on this, and she wants to raise it immediately to her last debate on it. I think that's a noble ambition. It would also be a nice thing for me if we did not have to have this debate anymore. Can I guarantee it? No, I can't. I can say that it's my ambition to make sure that we really don't have these kinds of excesses anymore. But I'm not the only one who can do something about it; this is everyone's responsibility. It is a responsibility of abattoirs, of individual employees and also of NVWA. It is a responsibility of the Chamber, which must ensure good legislation with good sanctioning. And as a minister, I am also responsible for those who supervise it. Furthermore, of course, I am always looking forward to having a debate with Mrs Bromet on any subject. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u160	Yes. Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u161	Several groups are talking today about measures that could be taken to minimise these excesses. I assume that will be the subject of motions for resolutions later. Does the Minister believe in these measures? Can she say anything about that? Because you can stack rules on rules and measures on measures, but at some point it's just enough. Has that point been reached yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u162	Of course, I do not know what measures and motions the Chamber is going to take, so this is going to be a cup of coffee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u163	Well, there's been talk of mandatory camera surveillance, there's been talk of closure. You have said something about this, but I have the impression that the Chamber would like to go a little further into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u164	It could be. I have tried to indicate how I am in this and I really want to see how the deterrent effect of fines can be improved. I said that we would also close earlier if there were excesses and incidents on incidents. I have said what the legal options are for that. I have also indicated that camera surveillance seems to me to be a helpful means of achieving this better, but I also want to see what exactly came out of the pilot. I have also said that it is my ambition to ensure that more slaughterhouses are involved. I think that if we take such measures in this way, perhaps it will not immediately lead to any more incidents or excesses, but at least that will help us get closer when it happens, and we will have more opportunities to deal with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u165	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u166	Mr President, I thought: I await the Minister's reply. In fact, at the end she went into the point I had raised about the whistleblowers. I would like to ask the Minister to reflect on the image that does indeed arise. She said before, "I'm in front of the NVWA." That's what I'm supposed to do. However, it seems that people, even within the NVWA, who, for example, really want to maintain animal welfare rules properly, do not always receive support for this within the organisation. So instead of those individual whistleblowers, whose signal is really that they're getting through hard, I appreciate the Minister saying she does want to hear it. Can the Minister reflect on that? How can we deal with that? Should there be an independent hotline? Because we continue to face these kinds of signals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u167	I have, and I sincerely believe that, had conversations with the person from the NVWA who is my counterpart, and he is also really open to these kinds of conversations. I do not see that there is a culture of this: that cannot be discussed. I also think this is typical of the organization. So I can ask him or the organization to make sure that that is just well secured, but I really think that things like hotlines and things like that should be considered within the organisation: how can you ensure that there is a climate in which people feel safe to pick up certain signals? Once again, when people report to me and feel that they are not, I will always try to link them to the person who is the interlocutor there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u168	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u169	Yes, but in order to avoid these conversations about whistleblowers, we've been holding the cabinet for a while now, that we're going to continue to be classy whether that's structural or not, should we do something more to map that out, right? That's what I'm looking for, because I don't want to let those people down. If the minister says she's standing in front of the NVWA, it's got to be about the whole organization, including perhaps the more critical people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u170	Sure. I hope I say: criticism is not the problem. If there's criticism, we can all learn from it. Only in the discussions I have with the NVWA is my impression not that the NVWA is pursuing a policy whereby such signals should not come through, quite the contrary. If people come forward who say they are, I will also bring those people in contact with those who need to engage in that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u171	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. Mrs. Ouwehand is already standing by! I call Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u172	Mr. Chairman. It would be nice if Mrs Bromet's wish were to be fulfilled, that we should never again have to debate abuses in slaughterhouses and supervision, but then something must be done. A number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Court called on the Government to use camera surveillance in all Dutch slaughterhouses and not to exclude it;]] [[noting that voluntary agreements have not so far led to this result;]] [[calls on the government to start developing the legal basis for mandatory camera surveillance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a wide need for heavier penalties in the case of repeated and serious infringements in slaughterhouses;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the effective imposition of heavier penalties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that investigations and signals from whistleblowers show that harassment of veterinarians in slaughterhouses is still at issue;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that inspections are always carried out by at least two inspectors, or by an inspector with the support of an animal police officer, with no reduction in the number of inspections,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to introduce mandatory controls in slaughterhouses where an NVWA veterinarian has to establish that an animal is actually dead before it ends up in a hot tub or is further cut open to remove the intestines,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Graus and Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-100]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-101]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-102]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-103]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u173	Last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are no rules on tyre speeds in slaughterhouses, but the pace is extremely high with all the associated risks to animal welfare;]] [[calls on the Government to set a ceiling at the rate of slaughter of different species of animals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-104]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u174	A whole range of motions came along. My question is specifically about the motion stating that the animal police must go with the inspector. Where do you get the cover? That may have financial consequences. I'm not sure, but it could be. Where do you get the cover?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u175	It could be just like that. It is starting to be a bit of a thing: is it going to be a debate with or without the dividend tax? But I think we have 2 billion a year at our disposal to do very nice things in society. Take your chance!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u176	But I'd like a serious answer right now. Where do you get the cover?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u177	From there, for example. We are also very much in favour of a meat tax. If the CDA wants to support them, then we suddenly have a little more money in the cash to finance, for example, these kinds of measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u178	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u179	Thank you, Madam President. Some promises have been made. Of course, some commitments have been going on for a long time. I just wanted to say to the new Member Bromet van GroenLinks, my colleague, that as long as the homo sapiens, man, exists, there will always be animal suffering. Man is equal to animal suffering. That's never gonna change. If there are only a few people running around the world, there will still be animal suffering. There will always be misery in slaughterhouses. In any case, we are here to monitor animal welfare, to ensure that there is as little animal suffering as possible and that animal executioners are dealt with hard by inciting their fears, so that they change their minds ten more times before they do anything with an animal. That's why. I myself do not make any motions because I have signed four motions from the Party for Animals. Those motions have just been tabled by Mrs Ouwehand. It concerns the motion on a legal basis for permanent camera surveillance, which I myself have already tabled once, and the motion on the heavier penalties and their actual imposition, which I am, of course, very much in favour of. We talked about the restraining order. I'm talking very clearly about a life-long restraining order. It's all very nice for the stage to raise that a bit from three to ten years, but that doesn't cut wood, of course, because if there's recurrenceism somewhere, it's animal executioners. Then I signed another motion to have the NVWA accompanied by the animal police, by a general investigator heavily armed. That an animal must be dead, I find very sad. This will be my last sentence, Madam President. I find it very sad that Mrs Ouwehand has just had to table a motion, signed by me, which states that an animal must be dead before being sucked into a hot bath. That's really outrageous. That's a deep, deep shame. I'm so embarrassed when I'm Dutch. But at least thanks to the Minister for wanting to do something about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u180	Thank you, Mr. Graus. I now give the floor to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u181	Thank you, Mr President. I'm not filing any motions. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. I think she has taken that in a very good way. She's still working on it. She's also showing this to ensure animal welfare and food safety in a structural way. It does this by making public and private relations more compatible, but also by looking at the sanctions, such as the closure of slaughterhouses or, rather, the withdrawal of recognition. That should really be an option. In the end, it is important that our animals are treated with respect and that our food is safe. Incidents must not occur anymore and it must also be structurally in order. Cameras in slaughterhouses are part of that. I think the Minister is on the right track with that. It would be counterproductive to lay down a legal basis for this now, because then everyone will sit back, as the Minister rightly said. D66 is ultimately about the speed at which this is implemented. We now have the impression that it can be done faster, it can always be done faster, but it will certainly be slower if you start preparing legislation on this now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u182	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Bromet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u183	Thank you, Mr President. Although I know that the discussions in this committee are often very polarising and we very often disagree, I am pleased to see that we can very much agree on some issues and the Minister wants to take steps to combat these abuses. So a positive sound in a not so cheerful debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u184	Thank you, Mrs Bromet. This can also be done in the second term. Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u185	Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna polarize again, okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u186	That's what I thought!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u187	No, that's not so bad. I have no motions, but I have two comments. First of all, I have co-signed the camera surveillance motion for a number of reasons. First of all, I said that the time of non-committalism in this area is now really over. I also think it is a wrong strategy to say that you want as many people as possible to do it voluntarily, because you know that those who do not participate are probably the ones where camera surveillance is most needed. Moreover, we have seen the following. Since a year ago, Secretary of State Van Dam has promised to conduct a pilot, very little has happened. That's all understandable. The secretary of state was gone abruptly and there was no cabinet for a few months. When there was a minister, quite a few other subjects came along pretty quickly. Anyway, if this cabinet stumbles on Prince's Day later, I don't want to wait another six months before something happens. Then I say: start preparing legislation. The second point concerns fines and such things. The Minister made a clear statement on this. That's what she was doing; we knew that. In the autumn we will hear about this. We didn't know that yet, but it's good to know. The Minister explained how complicated it is to get it done legally. What I would like to give you is this. I would prefer the NVWA to be flagged back by the judge once or twice than for fear of being flogged back the enforcement is carried out very reluctantly. If that moment of choice comes somewhere in that process, I'd rather be on the more offensive course of action than you lose once than just in the defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u188	Thank you. Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u189	Thank you, Mr President. A debate about not intervening in abuses. Let me make it clear once again that producers and companies themselves are responsible. There can be no misunderstanding about that. I have indicated this in the first term and I would like to stress that once again. Then we do need a supervisor to monitor, who actually intervenes when it is necessary, who shows his teeth and does not let go anymore and who, in real extreme situations, takes firm action. What I am a little sorry about this debate is that we are talking again about the level of fines and about when you can impose something, when we have had many debates during the treatment of the Animal Law and before that in which this wish has been expressed. I am pleased that the Minister will be presenting a letter this autumn in which she will raise these issues. That is, in that sense, the time to wait and see what the next steps should be. We will probably talk about the NVWA in a broad sense before then, but I think it is important to present an overall picture with all the improvement plans and the research we have left. That has something to do with each other. Once again, if people want to have confidence in a supervisor, whether it is the consumer or the business community, then we must also feel good about it and not talk about incidents too often. Incidents are never entirely preventable, but let us at least do our best to talk as little as possible about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u190	Thank you. Finally, Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u191	Mr. Chairman. The PvdA's commitment to this debate consisted of three points. There must be heavier penalties because at the moment the level of punishment is not enough to deter them. Those heavier penalties should also allow the closure of slaughterhouses which are structurally out of order. The Minister has promised that it will come forward with proposals at the end of this year. I'll taste some reserve at the minister's office. She sounds very careful. It also suits a driver. That's just part of it. On the other hand, I would like to give the Minister: do not be guided by limitations, but let you be guided by possibilities. When it comes to attitude, there is a proverb that says: if you act like a lamb, you will certainly be eaten by the lion, so I really hope that the minister will act forcefully. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be on camera surveillance. I hesitated for a moment to sign the motion on legal preparation. What matters to me is that the final picture is that there will be a closed system of camera surveillance and that the NVWA will have access to it; preferably voluntarily and if that is not legally possible. If the Minister can confirm that this is also her final picture, it would do justice to the sound that has been voiced here today in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u192	Thank you. Mr Graus has something else to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u193	I have just asked the Minister a question and she has promised that there will be a pilot on those mobile killing stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u194	You forgot something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u195	Do I understand correctly that this will be completed in 2019 or that it will start? I would like to know when that is and whether we will be kept informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u196	Do you think it's a good idea for the Minister to answer first? You're thinking along with the Minister. Oh, that's great.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u197	Mr. Chairman. I will answer that last question immediately. It ends at the end of 2019, so the beginning is earlier; soon, and eventually it will continue until the end of 2019. If that's what the Chamber wants...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u198	Maybe it's more convenient to say that in the microphone; just the last sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u199	I would like to know if the Minister can send that evaluation to the Chamber. That is probably good for next year's budget debate. That would work out well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u200	If it runs until the end of 2019, it is possible just after the budget process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u201	If the Minister can promise that we will be given that evaluation, we would be very grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u202	Fine, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u203	Our experiences with the pilot I will forward to the Chamber, but we have to start with it first. We're talking about the end now. Mr. Chairman. I've got five motions, and I'm gonna pass them fast. The first motion by Mrs Ouwehand et al., in part No. 100, is about mandatory camera surveillance and its legal basis. I think I've already gone into that in detail. I advise against this motion. The second motion by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Graus, on item No. 101, asks for heavier penalties to actually be imposed. I have indicated that I will come with a letter in the autumn, so I advise against this motion. I've already indicated that I'm working on this. Then there is the motion for a resolution (Ouwehand/Graus) on item No. 102, about at least two inspectors. As far as intimidation is concerned, I have indicated the escalation ladder that we are going through there. This would require specific efforts by the Animal Police. That really requires a lot of extra capacity and I don't have it right now, so I'm going to advise against this motion. The motion-Ouwehand/Graus in part No. 103 is about control of death, before they go into a hot tub. That is exactly the work those NVWAs are doing, so it seems to me to be an unnecessary motion. That's why I don't recommend this one. The fifth motion-Ouwehand, in part No. 104, asks for maximum belt speed. Regulatory requirements on animal welfare and hygiene can be established. If this is not met, adjusting the tyre speed can be a means to improve that, but it is not the case that a maximum has to be set now. Animal welfare and hygiene plus food safety are leading, so I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u204	This last motion is actually a test case, because the Minister is trying to tell the Chamber that it is not as easy to punish heavier, as we want, because then companies go to court and say that it was just as different. If you make clear agreements about the maximum rate at which animals can be slaughtered, then you have clear enforcement and then you can sue what you want, but then that's the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u205	Now for the motion, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u206	So my question is: why does the Minister dissuade such a very clear enforcement protocol?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u207	I have indicated that we are concerned with the objective of hygiene, food safety and animal welfare. As a means, if the NVWA says something isn't going well right now, it can indicate that the tyre speed needs to be adjusted. In that sense, the motion is superfluous. I don't think the target is the tire speed. The aim is to comply with the requirements of the law on animal welfare and food safety. There are a lot of resources that lead to this. If necessary, we'll see how it's applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u208	But does the Minister then acknowledge that the statement "it is not about the means but about the purpose" can maintain the differences? As a result, companies can go to court and say: this fine was not justified. However, if there is a clear rule and someone deviates from it, he can go to court as he pleases, but then the judge will say: but this was the rule and you did not stick to it, so that fine is justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u209	As I indicated at the beginning, there are abattoirs that are very well in order. Then it is not about how fast the band is, but about whether they comply with the rules on animal welfare and food safety. That is the aim; there are many ways of doing so. I am committed to ensuring that the rules on food safety and animal welfare are enforced. That's what the NVWA oversees. That's my lead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u210	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u211	Mr President, I have a few more questions to answer. Mr Futselaar spoke of an attacking course with regard to fines. He said, "I'd rather we choose the attack now and then lose it instead of being very careful." My point was that with the course we have now, we've been flagged back by the judge. In this sense, it is important to be able to support this well and to have good legal instruments for it. Mrs Lodders has indicated that we must have a supervisor who is right to prevent incidents. I agree with her, but can I point out the following? The RTL broadcast was based on a WOB request. This made it clear how often the NVWA has acted in enforcement. That was the message from which the picture showed that there are several abuses at abattoirs. That is one of the reasons why we are holding this debate. It was precisely the fact that the NVWA took enforcement action, with fines, warnings and, ultimately, a closure, which revealed the picture of incidents. So I'd say the NVWA did exactly what she had to do and where it could be better, we're going to bet on it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u212	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-06-tweedekamer-8.u213	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister, the MPs, the people in the public gallery, the officials, the Stenographic Service, the clerks, the messengers and the cleaners.
