ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u1	Let us now turn to Mr Segers' question on behalf of the Christian Union to the Minister of Justice and Security, who is replacing the Secretary of State, about the report that the size of boy prostitution is shocking the municipality of Eindhoven. I call Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Sexual exploitation, coercion and prostitution are poignant crimes, especially when it comes to underage teenagers, when it comes to young vulnerable boys and girls. I would like to pay my respects to Daniëlle van Went and her colleagues from the welfare organisation Lumens in Eindhoven, who have gained with great patience the confidence of a group of vulnerable boys and who have thereby been able to shed light on a dark world. The facts they have brought out are shocking. At least 70 boys aged between 14 and 22 years are active in illegal prostitution in and around Eindhoven. Not all of them volunteered to do that. The signals are also coming from other cities. Yesterday, the District Attorney's Office in the Central Netherlands was the emergency clock on prostitution among underage girls. The youngest was 13 years old. Fier Friesland, a relief organization, even knew an 11-year-old victim. The worst part is, these victims aren't in the picture unless you're looking for them. My first question to the Minister is this: does he recognise the image and also recognize that we can only find out the facts if we go looking and if it is a priority in the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police? Does it even have a priority there? Talks with the police have shown me that there are many other priorities and that this has fallen on the list. That concerns me, especially in view of the reports we have read this weekend about Eindhoven and the Central Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u3	I call the Minister, whom I would like to welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you. Madam President. I think that Mr Segers is right to draw attention to something that has made the news and has shocked me. It's the message that at least 70 boys between 14 and 22 years of age would be active in prostitution. Sexual exploitation of young people and children is horrible. That is why I would like to stress that I will be a little more supportive of the fact that it is a very high priority for the police, for the prosecutor and for me as well. First of all, I say that it is very good that Lumens has brought this to light. Research on young victims of sexual exploitation was commissioned by the VWS Ministry in 2016, but it turned out that it was difficult for researchers to find young victims, including because they do not see themselves as victims or because they do not dare to report themselves out of shame. That is why it was very difficult to give a quantitative estimate on the basis of that study. There is, I think, no added value in a similar study, but precisely the kind of research like that of Lumens has added value. Then it's about research in the regions, a field investigation with aid workers, police and prosecutors. The director of CoMensha has also argued for this in the broadcast of Sunday evening, which falls under the portfolio of the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. We will encourage and stimulate this research in the regions. That applies both to the Secretary of State and to me. Paid sex with minors gets really tough. For several years, the D.A. has been more active in investigating and prosecuting clients who have sex with a minor for a fee. This customer is increasingly being tracked down and prosecuted. The police also act immediately if it is found that a minor is working in prostitution. The minor is removed from prostitution and brought into contact with assistance. In the meantime, the police have eleven human trafficking teams, comprising around 400 human trafficking detectives. Those teams run hundreds of human trafficking investigations a year. Six cities of Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Utrecht, Delft, Tilburg and Zwolle are currently also providing shelter to men who are victims of violence in such dependency relationships. The target group consists of men who are victims of domestic violence, honour-related violence or trafficking in human beings. For adult foreign victims, there is the Categoral Reception for Victims of Human Trafficking, the COSM. This is carried out by three institutions. Male victims are taken care of in one of these three institutions. The reception and approach from the D.A. and the police are really very branched. Of course, there are also regular facilities such as youth aid and facilities that provide shelter to boys who are victims of sexual exploitation. The Fier organisation announced its intention to start shelter and treatment groups for boys who are victims of sexual exploitation in 2018. As you know, the government agreement has also explicitly focused on stepping up the fight against trafficking in human beings. There is investment in international investigation, police liaisons are placed in source countries of human trafficking and there is real investment in the regional Prostitution Control Teams. Investment amounts to 1 million last year and 2 million structuralally from this year onwards, which also provides training for extra-certified human trafficking detectives. It concerns a large number of points of approach, but it also has, I would like to say, my personal involvement, not only as a substitute for the Secretary of State. As I announced to your Chamber in December, I spoke with organisations in the field of the abuse of young women, some of which are also fighting against the abuse of young men. I promised to send a letter to the Chamber on 8 March, World Women's Day. You will forgive me, Madam President, for taking this subject with you, even though it is World Women's Day. Combating the exploitation of children is a priority for me personally and for all three of us in the Ministry. There's a letter from me to your room this afternoon about child abuse online.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u5	I know, of course, from the Minister and from the Secretary of State that it is a high priority to tackle this evil, because it is a very vulnerable group and because it is something so profound that they often carry with them for a lifetime. What we can do, we must do. I also know that, despite all the good intentions and intentions we all share, the capacity at the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office is always under pressure. Especially in times of terrorist threat, that pressure has been on capacity and there is still pressure. All the more important is to hold on to the Minister's intention and motivation and to direct it to the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Thank you for what the Minister said about the care of victims. That is indeed a great concern. It's a very vulnerable group. Extra money has been allocated for this. It's hard to reach that group. How exactly are we going to use these resources? In what way do we work with Fier, with the Salvation Army, with other specialized and nationwide organisations? They often find it difficult to find their way in a decentralised landscape. We need to look at that in particular. The minister says if we see signals, if we see anything, we act. That's true, but I stress that if we don't look anymore, we're not gonna see a lot of it either. This is a dark world, I told you. These are places where young vulnerable children often suffer invisible suffering and are abused. All the more important is that we continue to give priority to catching perpetrators and helping victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u6	First of all, I told you, this integrated plan of approach will come in the spring. In particular, the Secretary of State will discuss the use of funds. Your point is a fine motto: if we don't go looking, we won't see it. I think that you can count on the Secretary of State and on me to look for this and that we are giving this real priority to the investigative bodies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u7	Finally, I would like to add two things, asking questions. There are also many plans for legislation in the coalition agreement, apart from care for victims and, for example, the police liaisons that we want and want to put in place. I am thinking, for example, of a pimp ban, where it is punishable by criminal law to be a pimp in illegal prostitution. It is also important that we give the Public Prosecutor's Office the means to go after the perpetrators and punish them. What is the status of this legislation? Is it in preparation? At what time will it be consulted or will it be sent to the Chamber? Finally. So the plan of action is coming up. Is it also specifically looking at the position of underage victims, including victims of boy prostitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u8	To begin with, yes. The other point is the legislation. You mention one example. Another example is raising the border for criminal prostitution to 21 years. As stated in the coalition agreement, people up to a certain age limit may not yet be sufficiently resilient to certain dependencies and so on. This too will be given priority in the near future. I assume that the Secretary of State will elaborate this in more detail in his plan of action this spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you for your questions, Mr Segers. Mr Van Oosten has another question on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you. I am very pleased that Mr Segers has been given the opportunity to ask the Minister questions on this point, because there cannot be enough attention to combating prostitution among children. In view of the commitment that the Minister has indicated to have in this area, I would like to ask him about the written questions that I put on this subject two or three weeks ago. I would like to raise one of these questions in the hope that it can be answered positively. Terre des Hommes, one of the organisations that is committed to combating prostitution among young people, wants to be able to use virtual decoys. Minister, do you support that? Have any legal obstacles been removed in this respect? And can the organizations work with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u11	It is precisely because of the legal obstacles you mentioned that the Secretary of State must really weigh up and look at them. It should also be reflected in his plan of action. But I don't want to sound like someone who sends you into the reeds with a brat. This point, which has been raised in your questions, is taken seriously by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u12	It's good to hear that this minister wants to fight prostitution with minors in full. The increase in the age limit from 18 to 21, which the Minister himself was referring to, can also help with evidence problems with young people who actually look a little older. So it is a very good thing if that happens, but we have been hearing for years that there are plans for this. There are plans in the Senate as well. How does this minister and this cabinet prevent the tightening up of these legal measures again, as has always been the case in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u13	This can best be avoided by this Minister by addressing or addressing this issue, if that is the way you want to put it. I am replacing the Secretary of State here today, but I have already said that, as a minister, I, too, believe that actively combating the abuse, sexual exploitation and prostitution of young people and children and combating online abuse is really an important issue for this society. In the letter that you will receive from me today, or which you may have already received somewhere between "send" and reception, you will also see how the figures of, for example, online abuse have actually gone up in recent years. That is why I believe that we are long past the limit of unacceptable. This is really something you can address me on a regular basis. I do not go so far as to say this on behalf of Mr Harbers, but I also feel that he is entitled to address us periodically during this period of office: what is the situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u14	We are certainly going to do that, because the fight against trafficking in human beings has been reduced in recent years. That is actually inexplicable when you look at how unanimous this is thought: it is a gross crime that deserves the highest attention. In a meeting two weeks ago with aid workers and experts from the field, in which several colleagues were present, there was also the unanimous thought that there was far too little insight into the major problem of boy prostitution. If you're not gonna look for it, you're not gonna find it. Can the Minister promise that in his plans attention will also be paid to the issue of the need for sufficient manpower in the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office to get a look at this problem and good training for aid workers and the police, which the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings, among others, calls for, but also that there will be a nationwide network of shelters? Guys who are the victims of this are entitled to shelter throughout the country and not only in the places where that shelter is now available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u15	I said earlier and today I repeat that I myself am speaking in the wider context of the fight against crime with organisations that are particularly committed to this, i.e. to tackling the victims properly and taking them in. I'm gonna keep doing that. That seems to me to be an important response to your question. Indeed, it is a problem that really needs a very targeted approach. This can be seen, for example, by the fact that the 2016 study did not provide sufficient data, while such a regional research, really supervised by the aid workers, would go much further. You certainly have... yes, I can actually say yes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u16	I think everyone is really shocked by the trend that ages are falling in prostitution, that we have children in prostitution and more and more. It is therefore nice that the plan of approach also takes into account the declining age. Can the Minister confirm that again? It is of course also important that we know who the perpetrators and the customers are, because they make this possible. Can the Minister assure us that we are going to work very hard to get to know them and to increase the chances of getting caught and to increase the penalties?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u17	I'm gonna have to separate it in a couple of parts. As far as your first point is concerned, we do indeed have to bet on making perpetrator profiles visible, so not so much on an individual level, so that you can go ahead in the preventive sphere as well. This is necessary in the case of such an ever-expanding phenomenon. Your first question was about the age limit. I have said that we are going to reapply the age limit of 21 years, which is actually special. My ministry believes that the resilience of already vulnerable groups of boys and girls, just young people, in general regardless of their orientation or gender is vulnerable. That is why, as a society, we must provide them with longer protection by raising the border for criminality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u18	Very clear answers from this minister. Good to hear there's help for the victims. I would like to zoom in on the prevention of this kind of thing and in particular ask the Minister if he is prepared to make additional efforts to combat trafficking in human beings at international level, so that we can reduce and make a clearer commitment to it. Is the Minister prepared to make additional efforts to this end?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u19	Those extra tensions are already being done as we speak. I must, of course, give the honor to the Secretary of State. I fully agree with you. However, I myself have been somewhat more remotely involved here, as has been witnessed by Harber's portfolio of good cooperation at EU level. I had not yet fully answered Mrs Kuik's question. We are really looking at meaningful and very focused efforts by the police and the public prosecutor, precisely in order to make the connections more visible. Hence the great commitment to abuse online, because there are very good connections to be found there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you.
