ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u1	The next item is the debate on the evaluation of the Police Act 2012. I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security for this. Welcome to the Members of Parliament, the official support, the support of the Members of Parliament and the people who follow this debate in a different way. We're gonna start working on the first term from the side of the Chamber. I am happy to give the floor first to Mrs Helder. She speaks on behalf of the PVV Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On 1 January 2013, the national police was a fact with the entry into force of the current Police Act. Article 74 provides that the States-General shall receive a report on the effectiveness and effects of this law in practice within five years of its entry into force. The Committee on the Evaluation of Police Act 2012, also called the Kuijken Committee, has done a lot of work for this, for which I thank you once again. In addition, I would like to mention former Chief Constable Bouman, unfortunately posthumously. He has also played a crucial role in the success of this whole process, first as a quartermaster and then as the first chief of police. The greatest compliment I give to the policemen and women. It is only rightly concluded that the store could only remain open during the renovation because of their great loyalty. When the new Police Act came into effect after years of trial, everything had to be done in fast-track shipping. Everyone agrees that it had to be too fast and too much, with too little resources and also in a rapidly changing society. I therefore wish the current Chief Constable a great deal of wisdom and strength in leading the police organisation, on which everyone has an opinion. For no one will deny that what is still necessary must be done. There is no other way, because it is the biggest reorganisation ever, and also in a time of severe austerity. The evaluation is only five years after the law enters into force, but it is a deadline after which you can say whether there is a need to change the law. The key question in the evaluation is whether the current law supports the police organisation in its tasks, the effective enforcement of the rule of law and the provision of assistance to those who need it. The committee comes to a number of conclusions and then makes 12 recommendations. In his letter of 15 June, the Minister announced that he would take on board a large number of these recommendations. As far as I'm concerned, the most obvious one is the recognition that the Chief Constable should be given more space. In addition, the so-called double slot ends: a fixed amount and a fixed strength. My group agrees with both points. But a few important recommendations remain unnamed. So it is not clear whether the Minister is going to do anything about it either. I'll give you two. Firstly, the Kuijken Committee said that the law should prevent the current entanglement of the role of the minister, namely that of the client, owner and supervisor, because it is undesirable. The second is a more detailed definition of the scope and form of the ministerial designation power. Why is that important? Because of the fact that to give the Chief Constable then space to give policy and management guidance to the police organisation in practice remains dependent on the space that the Minister offers him. The power of designation gives the Minister the opportunity to assess the need for concrete guidance. The legislative documents show that I have checked the entire history of the government at that time that it would often be used and that it would become a common phenomenon in the communication between the minister and the chief of police. If that's how it works out, then there's a danger in there. I would like a response from the Minister to these two recommendations. Mr. Chairman. It also continues to pose the risk of the top-down approach that has been criticised. Nobody's gonna want that. All I have to do is point out the recent Podium report for good police work. The strategy of bottom-up apologizing for the English expression, Mr President; your former colleague would be standing up by now, is an explicit break with the usual change strategy, which was chosen at the start of the national police. By the way, that was understandable and necessary at first, but not anymore. The space offered to the chief of police and then the team chiefs and the workfloor itself, is also needed to ensure that top priority is not stacked on top priority again. There must be a balance that works for all parties, because everyone wants a well-functioning police organisation. I think this is an important point, because it was most evident in the round tables and in the many work visits I have made. I'll give you a few quotes. "Stop stacking priorities." "Stop setting targets." "Give us space to do our job." "Send on the what, not on the how." There's only a few left. I don't take them literally, but I support the idea. Does the Minister agree with me? In other words, how are we going to find a healthy balance, which leads to a positive conclusion on this point after the next evaluation? Mr. Chairman. The Chief of Staff is also given a stand-alone position within the National Security and Police Consultation. For both subjects, the rules need to be adapted, according to the Minister in his letter of 15 June. What regulations and what deadlines is not mentioned. So can the Minister say a little more about that today? In this context, I would also like to mention the remarks made by the Court of Auditors in its letter of 4 October this year. There are a number of areas of concern for the drafting of legislation. Firstly, there must be a clear division of responsibility between the Minister and the Chief Constable. Secondly, budget and accountability must be brought into line, so that the first is the ministerial responsibility and the second is the budgetary right of the Chamber. Is the Minister taking over these concerns? If so, does that require legislation? If not, why not? Does it become clear to the Chamber where the budget of the police lies the boundary between the competence of the chief of police and that of the minister? The Minister is, of course, still politically responsible, but I would like to see a little more clarity on this point. Finally. I would like to avoid that the current and future lack of operational capacity will soon affect the assessment at the next evaluation, in five years' time. In the coming years, as many as 15,000 agents will flow out and that gap will not be filled in the short term, despite all the legitimate efforts and investments. I will mention this here, because the evaluation is also about the effects of the Police Act in practice. As far as I am concerned, it should not be the case that in the future, for example, letting go of the double-lock system, a negative opinion is given if this is caused by simply too few people. Does the Minister agree with me? If so, how is he going to keep an eye on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u3	Thank you. There is one more question for you, Mrs. Helder. The question comes from Mr Azarkan. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u4	We know that the national police was the idea in the 2010 government agreement, which was supported by the PVV. The Kuijken Committee now says that this was actually based on a kind of romantic desire and wishful thinking. How does Mrs Helder view that conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u5	Well, "romantic" and "wishful thinking" is of course a personal concept. I was present at the formation sideways. I do know that there was a broad-based idea that at least there had to be an end to those 26 islands, as they called them. Whether that's romantic, I leave that to Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u6	The committee was led by Mr Kuijken and not by Mr Azarkan. So I quote from the conclusions of the report, and I think it is a little too easy to say: I will leave that to Mr Azarkan. It is important that we, as politicians, in this case were the CDA, PVV and VVD to come up with something together and that then the hardest conclusion is that it was too much wishful thinking. It was unrealistic and it was too ambitious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u7	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u8	My question is what Mrs Helder is learning from these conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u9	Well, before I come to that conclusion, Mr. Azarkan has to take the whole history, and it starts even before Balkenende IV. So it goes a little too far for me to call that totally romantic wishful thinking of those three parties. But I share the idea that something had to happen to those 26 islets at the time. I would like to mention them; that is also a quote, and that there had to be more unity. The way things turned out then, of course, this is something that has been re-evaluated in practice. I supported that, too. So I don't think it's romantic wish thinking, but you didn't hear me say it was all hallelujah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u10	Thank you. You were at the end of your speech. This means that I am happy to give the floor to Mr Van Dam for his contribution on behalf of the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing the evaluation of the Police Act 2012. We've been talking about the police a lot here in the Chamber lately. This means that, in this debate, I focus mainly on system questions and the evaluation of the law, and I look back on the main aspects of the reorganisation. I do so in great respect for all those who have had the courage to put their shoulders on this project. We know that for many the burden was sometimes too heavy, but that they have continued. In those "all" I also call the former chief of police. We respectfully look back on all his efforts. Mr. Chairman. A year ago, at the end of November last year, the Kuijken Committee presented its report. I thank the committee for that report. I think that we in the Chamber have looked at this very carefully and handled it well in order to be able to have this debate today. In recent years, the police have been heavily rebuilt, from 25 regional corps and the KLPD to one national police force. The administration of the police came in one hand at a national level, with the minister. At the base of the police organization a huge increase in scale was achieved. In the meantime, offices were closed, partly by austerity orders. There is a considerable shortage of staff, even at the moment. It's been tough years. The formation of the national police is seen by my group as a necessity. The development of crime and issues in the field of terrorism and migration required a single national police force, a single police intelligence community, from the district police officer to the fighter of the most serious forms of crime. That is the strength of that new organization, designed by thousands of motivated and well-equipped cops. But the reorganisation was not done without damage. We know all the problems. I can talk about the ICT, the COR, the PTSD and the absenteeism. I think that much is due to the loyalty of individual officers, who, to this day, love their work enormously and have much more trouble with the organisation in which they have to do their work. Let me start with point one. Let me start with the way we Christian Democrats look at security. Safety begins at home with education and at the sports club, with responsible people who dare to speak to each other. Right behind those responsible people should be our police, a accessible policeman, a policeman or a woman you might know and who might know you. With all due respect for the formation of the national corps, it has gone wrong in recent years. The scale increase in the basic teams, the closure of offices and the shortage of staff have been to a large extent at the expense of the proximity of the police. I also know that the appreciation of the police in the numbers, in the states, has remained unchanged high. The reduction in crime rates is also a top achievement. But talk to people! And talk to cops, too. They will say, "We have moved farther away from our citizens." Traditionally, the idea of our police was the community-policing model, so police in the neighborhood, not only when there is a problem, but also at other times to prevent a problem from arising. The police should not only be in contact with the youth group if there is trouble, but just in advance to avoid any fuss. Let us be clear: the basic teams could play an important role in this. But in the end these have not become robust basic teams, but shaky temp agencies. With the formation of the national police and also under the influence of the attention given to asylum and terror issues, all the national themes have shifted attention to the national themes. If there is to be capacity, it comes from the base teams. Vacancies fall into the base teams. Traffic flows are often carried out from the base teams. It is well known that emergency aid is often held together with tape and elastic bands and that other priorities cannot be set. Mr. Chairman. In the report Base Teams in the National Police, Professor Jan Terpstra talks about an abstraction police organization: many click and call, little face. We see that there is also some sort of business-economic thinking in courts, prisons and hospitals. If you're really looking at Kuijken's evaluation, you can see that it's strewn with an administrative-economic outlook on police work. This does not address the societal question of what the police should mean in 2018 and perhaps in 2030. Mr. Chairman. There's gotta be another way. I also ask for a clear position from the Minister. Is community policing still the basis? Excusez le mot, it's in English and that was in French, but you know what I mean. Is that still the concept the Dutch police are working with? What exactly are we going to do to get the neighborhood cop back in the neighborhood? Within the police organization there are also departments where people are less busy. I know that from my contacts. It's also a matter of choosing. What do you choose? Do you choose to create pressure in central departments within a unit or within a corps, because it is busy in the base teams? I would very much like to hear a response from the Minister. How's he handling that? Then I'm going to my second point. I have already announced this in the budget. That is the fact that the budget of Justice and Security includes the police budget with one rule. I think that this is a system issue, because a police that has the monopoly to use force in peacetime can only function in a country where there is democratic control of that police. It is a question of whether the shoplifting or bank robbery is being dealt with. Those choices are made either locally in the triangle or via the line of the D.A.'s office also arrive here in the Chamber. But the question of management, democratic control of management, is a matter for us as a Chamber. This is one of the major changes to the Police Act 1993. However, there is only one rule in the budget and there is 6 billion in it. That's about half the justice budget. I specifically asked the Minister about the actual questions relating to the budget how to check them. The answer is: you can table motions, because the police budget is attached to the budget. If I have to make a motion on the budget, you ask me to work with a saw. But you have to work with a hammer. A hammer is an amendment in this respect and not a motion. Yes, I can reject the whole budget, but I think that's a long way from home too. Mr. Chairman. I would like a statement from the Minister. How is he going to organise that as a Chamber we can exercise our budget right on the police budget? I see a movement, including what Kuijken is proposing, towards LOVP. The LOVP is actually getting more and more important. That's where the mayor of the region, the head of the prosecutor and the minister meet, and today the chief of police can sit on their own chair and no longer sit on a stool. There's a lot going on there. In polderland the Netherlands that is fine, but ultimately the LOVP is not the democratic control of the minister; that is what we are here. We have had several discussions over the last few years about ICT and I do not know what it is. I believe that this is precisely why we should back up the police in the area of management. That is our democratic system. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. I would add that I am not the only one who finds this. I would like to draw your attention to the Court of Auditors' report on the latest budget for Justice and Security. The Court of Auditors has been advocating this for years. Many experts say that the legal personality of the police is the problem and that you need to eliminate it. I do not believe at all that the sui-generis character that is always thrown into battle is a separate right figure. This is often thrown into battle to argue why something cannot be done, but it could also be thrown into battle to argue why it can be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u12	Thank you. A question from Mrs Buitenweg. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u13	Thank you. I have some questions. It's about the pace of national police. The previous CDA spokesperson, Mr Çörüz, said: I really cannot do it fast enough. So it had to be fast, faster, fastest. Does Mr Van Dam look back on that too? Was the speed good for the national police?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u14	No, I think we have to note that it has all gone far too fast, far too fast and far too firmly. I have to say, however, that I have a message on social media this week that I wonder how things should have been different, because this is a discussion that has been going on for years. I think both Opstelten and Bouman on the administrative level, but also within the police organization with 25 let but say kingdoms do... Yeah, what would have been the alternative? Let me put it this way: I can understand that speed. I want to make it very clear that it was an irreversible road and that things had to happen. But I have, like you, talked to people who have almost fallen victim to this whole story themselves. So I think it went way too fast and way too fast. Another comment: I think that the reorganisation of the police is only halfway through. The Kuijken report also shows this. If you reorganise such a large organization, especially if you also want to change things in the cultural field, we will need at least five more years to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u15	But we are also evaluating here, so also to see what lessons we can draw for the future. I would like to comment on that speed. You say it was actually a mistake, including from us as CDA. But what lesson do you learn from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u16	Well, that's intriguing, isn't it, that you want to make the point that it was a mistake of the CDA and that sort of thing? Then I think to myself: we're in it together. I would like to say to you that we are certainly involved in the construction of the idea, but that we were equally in the opposition in the implementation of the idea and that we have also been critical. But apart from that, I do not find it so interesting to go black and white; I think it is much more important to look at how we are going to proceed and I actually find this a reorganisation that is almost unique in its kind, because I think this has been the largest governmental organisation in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u17	Mr Van Dam just asked about the Minister's position on the role of the Chamber in relation to the police budget. Then I am actually very curious about Mr Van Dam's position, because you do share with me that at the moment the Chamber does have the constitutional power to ask questions about that budget and to amend it? In addition, of course, we deliberately created a legal entity with independence at the time. The Kuijken Committee even advises to introduce more flexibility into that budget. So is it the case that, by asking these questions, you condemn the police in the use of its budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u18	I just need to recover from the idea that I would be suspicious of the police about spending the budget. That's what I've come up with. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, If you pull a decent police force into a decent rule of law with democracy controlling that, I'd almost say you don't get it. It is precisely about back-up, mandate and responsibility. If this Chamber agrees that the police are going to spend hundreds of millions of dollars on ICT, that is a backup for the police to do so. If we say that they have to spend so much on their means of violence, for example increasing the number of electric weapons, then the budget is our tool for that backup. I've come to different insights over the past few years. First, I took the view that a separate supervisory committee should be placed above the police in order to control management. But then you're going in the direction of a Zbo construction, and I absolutely don't want that. That doesn't relate to the task of the police. I just want to be able to do my job here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u19	Thank you. Before I give Mrs Den Boer the opportunity to ask a second question, I would like to say that an interruption is short and calls for a brief and concise answer. Mrs. Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u20	D66 shares the view that democratic control of the budget is a great asset.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u21	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u22	But we in the Chamber control the minister. Do you now express confidence or distrust in your own minister when, as a Chamber, we call the Minister to order the police budget, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u23	I think it's an interesting idea that if you were a Member of Parliament doing your job, that would be based on mistrust. It's just my job. The Minister has explicit powers in the law with regard to the police, for example the distribution of the budget among the units. I believe the division within the units is to the mayor of the region. I don't need to check that out at all. But what the Minister does about the police, I want to be able to control.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u24	Thank you. Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u25	I was triggered by something Mr Van Dam said in the budget debate on 20 November. I checked the Acts and he said that if it were up to the CDA group, the police would be included in the JenV budget for 2020. Integral means complete, doesn't it? How should I see an integral budget at the Ministry, besides being able to be a legal person? I don't see that coming together so well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u26	If you look at the budget of the Public Prosecutor's Office and also at the Council's budget for justice, then those included are the SP's attempt to get it out of the budget. If you are talking about 'integrally included in the budget', I do not mean that the last shoelace of the district agent in Delfzijl is also included in the budget, but in particular about the responsibilities the minister has vis-à-vis the police. In the Police Act there are very specific layers of what the Minister is about and what the Minister is not about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u27	I'll try to focus on it. There was something in a clause that I just left out. Mr Van Dam said in that: like the distribution of resources among the units. Could it not also be that certain elements are included in the Police Act, which you say as a Chamber, we would like to amend? I'm just philosophizing in the wild. Transferring a whole budget to the budget of Justice and Security is a problem for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u28	We are having the debate here today. On the basis of that debate, I will certainly see what I think of it, what I hear in it and where there is political support. So I hear Mrs Helder's questions very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u29	Thank you. Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u30	I think it would be fantastic if, as a Chamber, we could get more control over the police's finances, but we always have the budget right. What I do see is that we once put the Home Office police in the Department of Justice and Security. That hasn't been a happy move. This integration, I think, is one of the reasons why things have gone wrong. If we are going to integrate that money now, is Mr Van Dam not afraid that we are going to fill one hole with another and that deficits elsewhere in the justice system will be taken out of the police budget again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u31	I understand that fear and that fear not only lives with Mr Van Raak, but let's face it: it can now, even if it is one rule in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u32	Thank you. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u33	I have heard it before, and indeed I have heard it from the Court of Auditors, but how does this relate to the pleas made by the Keuken Committee for a little more room for the Chief Constable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u34	That actually relates very well to that. I wholeheartedly agree that the Chief Constable will have more room to pass on the budget, into the Corps. When that happens, I see it as a bit of a blow: as more power comes there, we also need more control on the main lines. And that's what I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u35	Can Mr Van Dam indicate at what level of aggregation he is now thinking? Because what "main lines" does he mean exactly? Could he indicate some of the walls that we would not like to talk about? Because as he presents it now, at least the VVD is not very enthusiastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u36	No, I also see the representative of the VVD looking very unenthusiastic, so image and sound knocking. I have already said that this is about the powers that the Minister exercises in relation to the police budget. Then, for example, we are talking about the distribution of funds among the units. It is also about the rural housing budget, about the national ICT budget. The distribution within it, or one in the unit x.I mention only what sixteen detectives or twenty neighborhood agents buy from it, that is the space that Kuijken wants and I wholeheartedly agree with. In the end, that's not the Minister's concern. Sometimes I am very sorry, but that is not what the Minister is about and that does not need to be specified in the budget. Very briefly, there is also a general post in the public prosecutor's budget and not a parole board. We don't check for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u37	Thank you. You were at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u38	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u39	Thank you very much. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Kuik and she speaks on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u40	Mr. Chairman. In 2011 the national police were unanimously introduced. My group, and I personally, have long doubted whether we would support the bill or not, because we were concerned about the local embedding of the district agent, because reorganisations often take more time. We saw that in 1993 too, and often more money than you actually like. Nevertheless, we voted in favour, and I also believe that it has brought a number of benefits when it comes to ICT standards and breaking a number of rusted patterns. But I'm afraid that'll stop the great joy. Because Kuijken is very critical and he notes on a number of important key points that the bill for the introduction of the national police has not yet brought what it should bring. He also notes that the reorganisation is far from complete. The tanker is still sailing in the middle of the turbulent sea and it will take a number of years before we can measure the real effects of the introduction of national police. But we cannot stop now, and we will have to take measures to ensure that the police do their job as well as possible. Mr. Chairman. What matters now, I think, is mostly rest in the tent. No major changes, because the police still need to catch their breath and do things. I think that is incredibly important and I also think that I do not deviate from the way the cabinet stands in it and what the Kuijken Committee recommends. The problems are big, like I said. There is a lot of administrative pressure, the workload is high, the administrative burden is high, district agents fall out and are not in the neighborhoods where they have to sit, paper and reality do not always match and there is great dissatisfaction. So the Minister has a lot of work to do. That is why I find it worrying and regrettable that the Minister does not accept all the recommendations of the Kuijken Committee. Thus, the Minister remains chairman of the National Consultation Security and Police and there will be no independent chairman. My question to the Minister is therefore why he chose to do so. It is also noted that the Ministry is now such a big moloch and that you have to put on so many different hats. That's why you'd be wise to take some of those hats off. Mr. Chairman. The Chief Constable will be given more room in line with the recommendations. There will be a legislative proposal stating that he will be given a task to draw up both the budget, the multiannual estimate and the management plan as well as the annual accounts and the annual report. The Minister remains ultimately responsible as the corps manager. My question to the Minister is then how much room the Chief Constable gets in all of this. How are we supposed to measure that and how are we supposed to see it? Mr. Chairman. Another important point from the recommendations that the Minister does not accept is the recommendation to review the territorial structures of the police force. Kuijken wants this, among other things, because it is possible to look at the size of the basic teams, something that we have also discussed many times over the past year. My question to the Minister is why he doesn't want that. The argument is that we are going to change too many things. But you also have to measure to know where you'd eventually want to go? You do not have to change it from one day to the next, but it seems quite obvious to me that it is necessary to start that investigation. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. Another point that I think is important and which other colleagues will probably start on, is this: how do you rest by providing a structural multi-annual budget? This will provide clarity and stability for the police for the longer term. The police can also establish a long-term vision without being dependent on different Cabinets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u41	A question from Mr Van Raak. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u42	A long-term financial vision. One of the big problems we're having right now is that there's a huge shortage of cops all over the country. The previous government of VVD and Labour Party has closed down: fewer people have come and fewer people have been trained. How could it have happened that at a time when everyone could see that tens of thousands of extra agents were needed, the Labour Party and the VVD said: we are going to get much fewer people and we are going to train much fewer people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u43	During the previous period, quite robust measures were taken in several areas because of the crisis. Fortunately, it looks better now economically. The cabinet also pays extra money for additional capacity. We would like that to be a little extra. But that's the situation as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u44	Now Mrs Keiken advocates structural funding, stable funding, over several cabinet periods. Police work is complicated, but the national police could have watched: how many people do we have, how old are they and when do they retire; so how many people do we need? That's very simple math: add up and subtract. Why did politics then, the Labour Party and the VVD, say: no, we're not going to do that, we're going to hire a lot less people and train a lot less people? Because the crisis you are talking about is not over with the police, it just started there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u45	Once again, this crisis is not over and we need to take further steps now. Mr. Chairman. Another point I would like to make concerns culture. This may not come back very firmly in the report of the Kuijken Committee, but one of the major errors that has been made in the introduction of the national police force is, I think, that many men, especially men, have been put on jobs with the aim of introducing the national police as soon as possible, and a little less people have been put into positions that were more able to organize the connection within the police organisation. I am not personally blaming anyone for that, but I think it is a statement. I'm not saying this for the first time in this house. I would therefore like to ask the Minister in this debate how he deals with the cultural changes that are needed and how we ensure that managers and people in structural positions have the capacity to further shape the national police. The police organization has changed incredibly in recent years. It was actually a very operational, executive organisation and is now an MBO-plus and HBO organisation. This calls for a completely different way of driving and that also requires something in leadership. Mr. Chairman. I am not quite finished, so if Mr Van Dam wants to ask a question...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u46	I'd like you to finish your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u47	Mr. Chairman. Yeah, I'm finishing up. As I said at the beginning, going back is not an option. The tanker lies on turbulent sea and it is now only the question of how we can get that tanker together in safe harbour, with the minister as pilot and with the chief of police as pilot. We're gonna have to do that together. I am an ally in that, because I feel responsible for the introduction of the national police. After all, we also voted in favour. We're gonna have to do it together. All the way to the end. However, this requires that we continue to take steps at this time. The Minister knows that I am critical, for example when it comes to tackling workload and bureaucracy. I don't believe in such an external audit that's going to investigate all that again. I think you should take steps now, even when it comes to capacity problems and a number of other issues. I see a lot of beautiful plans, but I still don't see enough action. I will continue to appeal to the Minister through you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u48	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u49	The Labour Party is, in a way, the party of the people; that is what I mean very positively. My point is that the police are drifting away from the people here and there. I would like to know from the representative of the Labour Party whether she recognizes what I am saying and whether she agrees. What is the view of the Labour Party on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u50	I sense a lot of cynicism and distrust within the police organization. Distrusting us as politics. If you know what is being said about us in our own fora, then that is deeply sad and partly understandable. There's a great deal of mistrust towards the corps leadership. By cynicism you can lose your attachment with the community, with the people in part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u51	Now I hear that it is mainly laid down in cynicism. But doesn't it have something to do with the embedding of the corps, the organization? Do you agree that perhaps something should change there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u52	That the police should be able to come back to the district teams, yes, I agree. That was one of our greatest and most important demands we made when introducing the national police. We can see that some of this is being done on paper, but not in practice. I'm not okay with that. That's why I'm also saying: research the size of these base teams now, because that's the start of shaping the local embedding between the people. I think that you are right to a part of the criticism that is also felt and rightly felt by agents themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u53	Thank you. You were at the end of your speech, thank you very much. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Krol. Mr Krol spoke on behalf of 50PLUS. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Whether you believe it or not, sometimes I find it very unfortunate to be right. The introduction of national police has resulted in a disaster. More than once we have raised the problems: the police-free countryside, absenteeism and the advance of boas because there are gaps in enforcement. We're barely getting through, because our agents are working their best day and night. We would like to thank all those agents sincerely. In the Minister's letter, it is now dim as well. I quote: "The larger area at local level is important because security issues in society are often the first to emerge in neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods. The task of the police must therefore be managed primarily at local level." This undermines the philosophy behind the national police. The reorganisation has led to more problems than solutions. The practice proves it in a terrible way. A little anthology. There aren't 20,000 operational agents on the street every day, but only 7,000. We're reading about a district cop who can't do rounds for 14 days because of courses and emergency services. Of the 60,000 agents, 7% of them can't be used due to absenteeism. You can't recruit or train against that. For example, the Putten police station is open in the morning from 10 a.m. to 12.00 p.m. and can process two declarations per day. There's a huge lack of detective capacity. Only 10% of home invasions are resolved and these are crimes with a major impact on the victim's life. The official reporting rate is 30%, and if we can believe cops, it's already down to 18%. Safety is for sale for larger retail companies that can afford private security, but not for small and medium-sized enterprises and citizens who depend on the police. The cuts in health care will increase the workload. The police collect 80,000 people in need of care every year, and that is more and more work. There's been an increase in 112 notifications. That's partly because the police are no longer visible. Those 911 calls to the police are gonna drop off the list after half an hour. Then there are other reports, which the police do not have time for. A lot of older people don't dare go out on the streets anymore. Retired agents are being deployed to escort them to the mall. Rightly so, because unfortunately it is no longer an exception when a high-age person is robbed. What's actually going better since the introduction of the national police? I'd like a response from the Minister. 50PLUS does not want to turn the police organisation upside down again, but there is an urgent need for improvements. The other day, I heard about a 40-year-old cop who had already been injured twice. That young cop didn't get the idea to serve for over 30 years. It is a lucrative profession, with shiftwork and with a high risk. 50PLUS wants to freeze the AOW age at 66 and then back to 65. What possibilities does the Minister see for early retirement, for example in the form of tax arrangements? We regret that the Minister has not yet adopted the Kuijken recommendations on the territorial structure of the corps. There will be more control for the mayors in the deployment of district agents, but how will that control be extended further? Optimize the administrative approach. A mayor has broad administrative powers and gets even more with the announced undermining law. Are all the possibilities already being exploited? Priority is given to absenteeism. How's the Minister gonna do that? 50PLUS mentions the power surge weapon in this context. It gives the agent more self-confidence in crisis situations, it gives fewer injuries to cop and arrester, and it causes less stress. It is therefore likely to lead to less absenteeism. We await the Minister's report. Can it include whether the weapon makes its money back by reducing its default? Can consideration be given to a phased introduction if all the issues have not yet been resolved? In any case, stop the market forces in safety. Everyone has a right to safety. Police work is a government task. Can the Minister promise us that police duties will not be transferred to private services? There's 16,000 returns going through the shredder. There's got to be more time for detectives. Can cooperation between criminal intelligence services and detectives be improved? And get more cops. Give us back our agents!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u55	Thank you. A question from Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u56	I can agree with that final sentence. But what strikes me is that where the representative of 50PLUS generally has a warm, positive glow in his voice, he now has a harsh judgment. There's nothing wrong with the police. You'll start with that. Have you had a different copy of the report from the Committee of the Regions than I have? Why don't we put them next to each other later? Because I don't think that's Kuijken's conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u57	I think that the CDA colleague understood very well that I am not happy with what happened after the introduction of the national police. We were never in favour of it. We still aren't. I do see a lot of negative things, but I also started complimenting those agents who are working hard day and night to do what they can, with far too little resources in my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u58	Mr Krol just said that older people are no longer afraid to go out on the street, but there is a security monitor that says that the number of people over 65 who are victims of crime has just gone down, I am talking about violence, vandalism and that kind of crime. In 2012 it was still 12%. In 2017, it was 9%. Okay, 3% less, that might have to go even further down, but what figures does Mr Krol base himself on? What is the causal link between the formation of the national police force and the trends he indicates?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u59	I'm very happy with that question from D66. I'm not basing myself on the figures you're basing myself on, but I'm talking to the police. And these policemen say to me, "It's getting worse and worse." Take a look at the newspaper reports. The number of people of a certain age being robbed really increases by the day. And you know what's so sad? Those people don't even have a police station around to report it. That's where the numbers come from. If only those police stations had stayed close. This was also considerably higher in the number of declarations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u60	D66 also talks to police officers. We talk to all kinds of people. But we also rely on the security monitor. That's a fact-based monitor, isn't it? I ask you: is there a causal link between the formation of the national police force and the trends you have indicated?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u61	In particular, there is a causal link between the fact that police stations are no longer in the area, that older people no longer have a point of contact where they can report and that there is also a group of older people who are struggling with the digital report, and that the figure seems to go down. I wonder which cops you're talking to, but the cops we're talking to say it's getting worse every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u62	I know Mr Krol as an amusing and pleasant colleague. I don't think what I heard is right. For a moment I thought I heard him say we should see if the introduction of the taser is deserved. I didn't quite understand what he meant by that. The return on the taser?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u63	That's what we're gonna ask. Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u64	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u65	I assume you're referring to the power surge weapon. I asked the Minister about this. I would very much like to know if, if we were to introduce that power surge weapon, that could reduce the stress on cops and make them feel less threatened. As a result, absenteeism could be reduced, which would in fact pay back some of the costs. I asked that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u66	That sounds like something immoral. We're gonna put in a new weapon and then we're gonna see how that earns us back. Could you explain that a little more, Mr. Krol? How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u67	I'd like to explain it again, but it seems so simple. If you're a cop on the street and you feel threatened and uncomfortable, you see what's happening right now: incredibly high absenteeism at the police. And that rises, over and over again. I spoke to agents in Rotterdam the other day. They say: how nice it would be if we could carry a weapon with us that is much less stressful. They call themselves, and they also give examples, the laser gun. That could significantly reduce absenteeism. If that is the result, then that also generates a lot of money. I am not saying that it is, but I would very much like to have the Minister's answer to the question whether he has the opportunity to examine the consequences of this, including for absenteeism.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u68	I heard Mr Krol say at the beginning of his speech: the national police is a disaster. Those are his words. I don't share them. Nor does it do justice to the agents who work there with great pleasure and some with less pleasure; I also acknowledge that. I have heard Mr Krol mention a lot of things, including the fact that older people are no longer afraid to go on the streets and police stations are being closed down. I share that point with him. But he also mentioned so many reports of confused persons. Why is this a consequence of the Police Act, the national police themselves and the legislative process? Doesn't that have something to do with social developments?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u69	This will undoubtedly have something to do with it, but we used to know regions. In my eyes, they weren't so bad at all. Back in the day, the police were much closer to the citizen. I get that complaint every day. I assume your mailbox has just as many complaints from older people saying, "We used to remember the neighborhood cop. We were able to ring the bell much earlier. There were earlier interventions, so things didn't get out of hand." These are all things that I note, but I would like to hear the Minister's answer that they have gone backwards since the introduction of the national police. That's what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u71	I'd like to go on for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u72	Yes, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u73	50PLUS has mistaken the development of the boa with limb eyes. Sneaking into a new police layer. We'd rather see cops because they're getting better training. Nothing to the detriment of boas; they too must do it all, as good and as evil as it goes. Those boas are here. We're gonna need them, but unfortunately, they're gonna have to deal with violence. The monopoly of violence, i.e. carrying out the task by force if necessary, must remain with the police. But 50PLUS believes that boas may be equipped with defensive weapons. Our motion on cop medals was adopted unanimously. And then, Madam President, what do you think? Nothing at all. Nothing at all! The low wage and the higher retirement age are of course not compensated by a medal, but if that is too much... 1.8 million 112 notifications came in this year. Wasn't there ever a heroic act? Does the minister ever hear of heroics in neighborhoods and streets? There are agents who give their lives for our safety. And then that cop, a young mother, who doesn't want to be scheduled on Thursday night because she's swimming with her handicapped daughter. If it is her this year, then we have not succeeded in twelve months' time. In my view, that is an unbridled effort. Is she a hero? We would like a clear answer to that. Is she yes or is she yes? Mr. Chairman. The documents for this debate are a thick pile and yet, it was incomplete. Was the Chamber well informed about the number of police officers on the street? They're investigative journalists who've brought up the abuses. We will come back to this in detail to the final report of the Remkes Committee. Mr President, I shall conclude. Tomorrow there will be a police demonstration at the Maasvlakte in Rotterdam. 50PLUS will be there. The Minister, too? Maybe he feels sorry for us as a human being, but as CDA minister, his hands are tied to this coalition and he needs to be tough. Finally, I ask the Minister how difficult that is. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u74	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak. Mr Van Raak spoke on behalf of the SP Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u75	The police are in crisis and in danger of security. That's what more and more cops say after six years of national police. There are far too few people and too many things that are not being investigated. Cops love their trade, but they're out. They're getting extinct. It all started out so beautifully in January 2013. National police will provide better services. That's what Minister Opstelten said at the start of the national police. The reality is different: more than half of the police stations are closed and all the agents have become overworked or cynical because they can no longer do their job. People don't press charges anymore because there's no point. There's 23,000 reports on the shelf. Because of the shortage of personnel, 16,000 investigations have stopped. The Netherlands is a narcostate, warned the police. The detectives say they don't have enough control over the undermining crime. Last year, SP agents asked about their experiences with the national police, in a survey involving over 1,600 police officers. The result is downright confrontational. Over 80% of the cops say the police have become less efficient. 85% of the agents say that the quality of service has decreased since the arrival of the national police. Perhaps the most shocking thing was that 60% of policemen said that thanks to the arrival of the national police, the Netherlands has become more unsafe. The question is how this could have happened. After the Second World War we got a municipal police with a state police. With this, the police had a good local embedding, but they were increasingly failing in national crime. In 1993 the police were scaled up to 25 regional corps, with above that the KLPD. Completely in line with the spirit of time, a new idea of leadership was introduced to the police: the new public manager. The mayor of the largest municipality was given a decisive vote as corps manager. This regionalisation soon led to a lot of talk and to an organization where the leadership was more concerned with prestige than with the police. That is why the choice seemed simple: either to go back to a municipal police force, but we would not be able to take sufficient action against greater crime or to scale up to a national police force. But then we should also respond to the rapidly growing need for local police work. In order to persuade the Chamber to agree to this massive reorganisation, the Minister made three firm commitments at the start of the national police force. Firstly, the introduction of national police would not lead to deterioration, but to strengthening the local embedding of police work. Secondly, the introduction of a new police structure should also lead to a change in culture at the top of the police organisation. Thirdly, the new police would become an organisation in which the demands of the managers, but the needs of the agents, would be paramount. I ask the Minister why all these promises have been broken. The police work is always unexpected, but some things you can just calculate. How many cops are there now and how old are they? How many people are going to retire, so how many people should we recruit and train? If the leadership of the national police should have done something, this is it. But it didn't. In fact, the minister was going to cut back on inflow and training. And now we are really everywhere with deficits that cannot be filled, because people have not been recruited and trained. There's no solution. Or does the Minister see it? The Minister tried to talk himself out of it for a while, but he has to admit that there will be fewer agents in the coming years. At the same time, in municipalities we see a proliferation of special investigators and even an increasing hiring of private security. A failing national police now leads to some kind of municipal police, with all kinds of boas doing their job really well, but who simply don't have the training and the equipment to take over all those local police tasks. The Lower House was clearly promised that each municipality would have at least one district agent in every 5,000 inhabitants and that this local agent would be at least 80% of the time in the neighborhood. I ask the Minister why this promise has also been broken. It's fucking laid down in the law. When I see how the chief of police and certainly the minister sometimes speak of agents.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. andandand...... For six years, men and women have done everything they can to make the organisation run at the expense of their private lives and not rarely at the expense of their health. But all the time, cops were told to be more flexible. In other words, it's your fault it went wrong. I noticed that at first many policemen, as well as the unions, liked the national police, but that it really went wrong when the layout plans were presented. KPMG has had quite a hand in the establishment of the national police. I wonder: how is that possible? How can you create a new culture, a new management with KPMG and other consultants? And what did all that cost? Much research has been done on the national police, including by the Kuijken Committee, which notes that very little has changed in the field of culture and management. National police have become a prestige project which has been carried out far too quickly over the heads of policemen. In addition, VVD and the Labour Party decided not to invest heavily but to make substantial savings during the reorganisation. Kuijken notes all this, but does not answer the question of how and why this could happen. What has been the role of the Chamber, the Cabinet, the top of the police? Why have the firm commitments to the Court not been fulfilled? Why haven't the tough promises to the cops been kept? I think that the House of Representatives should also look at the consequences of the crisis in the national police, for the police themselves, but also for the partners in the security chain, for the prosecutor, the lawyers and the judges. I understand that the Minister wants to look ahead today and will say that he wants to get everything back on track, but that is not enough. The police crisis is too great for that. That is why, in the second term of this debate, I will propose a parliamentary investigation into the national police and the security chain in our country. As Mr Krol pointed out, the agents do not sit still. They won't accept that the police are being aborted. The police officers are moving. They have taken action and they will continue to act. That's gonna happen tomorrow. Mr Krol will be there. A lot of SPs will be there, too. The police won't let the police destroy them, and I wish them every success with those actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u76	Thank you. There is another question from Mrs Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u77	Especially out of curiosity. Mr. Van Raak announces that he will table a motion during the second term for a parliamentary inquiry. I would very much like to know what such a parliamentary inquiry should be about. Are we going to repeat Kuijken's evaluation? Are we going to do a historical investigation? Are we going to ask other people than Kuijken has already done? I would very much like to know the direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u78	I do know why Mrs Den Boer of D66 is so enthusiastic about the report by the Kuijken Committee. It's a consultant investigation, it's a management investigation. That's dripping off. If you pick it up, the management language will drown. It's a feather-light analysis and Kuijken himself actually says that he couldn't do this evaluation in this way. We have asked 1,627 agents and their conclusions I will give them to Mrs Den Boer in a moment are terrible. They're horrible. And not only we say that, not only the police say that, but also the judges in this country, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the lawyers, they all say: there is concrete rot in the rule of law. There's a crisis going on. That is what we, the House of Representatives, have allowed to happen. I say to Mrs Den Boer that we have an expensive task to investigate how that could have happened. Because only if we see how that happened can we restore it and prevent it in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u79	In the Kuijken Committee there were all kinds of people who have been dignitaries, including Mrs Sorgdrager. I think she had a huge track record and made sure that we have a very competent evaluation report. So I'm gonna distance myself from that anti-management language. We have a report in our hands that gives us a directive for the future. This is a basis for further and further development of the police organization. Does Mr Van Raak agree with me that we should not do that work again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u80	I agree with Mrs Den Boer that there were a lot of D66 dignitaries involved in the Kuijken Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u81	Mr Van Raak referred to the fact that it was already going wrong at the time of his announcement of a second-term motion. Then he switched to the entire safety chain. In my view, there is the biggest problem, namely that there has indeed been substantial cuts. That is what I said in my first term. But let's think a little bit more about that motion. What if it had gone wrong at the facility? What are we supposed to change? Will Mr Van Raak go back to the whole process and actually take the basics out of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u82	I don't know yet. But I was there at the time and I noticed very strongly that I do not know if Mrs Helder also noticed that within the police, within the unions, even at the works councils, however dubious that summit was, but certainly among agents, the enthusiasm that was initially there for the national police actually turned into mistrust at a very early stage when those layout plans were presented. That's why I spent years trying to figure out who made these layout plans. I should have known that in 2014, but I only recently found out that KPMG and other consultants were very much involved. I am therefore afraid that the promise of a new culture and a new management structure has already gone wrong at the outset, because the same culture and management structure are so closely involved in the layout plan. But I'm not sure. The minister's gonna tell us all about how he's gonna save the police in this country. I don't believe that if we don't know why it went wrong. I think it is therefore important that we do such an investigation. The role of the Chamber, the role of the cabinet and the role of the police summit must be taken into account. And since the police play such a pivotal role in the security chain, I can't imagine anything other than that we should look at the public prosecutor's office, attorney's office and at justice, and perhaps at the ggz and all kinds of other organisations. But I don't know. All I'm suggesting is that we do a parliamentary investigation. I am not about the design of that; that is what the Chamber is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u83	For you too, the interruptions must be short, but that also means a brief and concise answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u84	Mr Van Raak is somewhat contradicting himself. In response to my question where it should lead, he said: I do not know. Then he switched to culture. He actually called it... "fault" I won't call it quite, but there wasn't much of it. That's such a distrust that you'll know what should come out of it. To be honest, I think that is a dangerous starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u85	Yeah, but that's what I think. That's the analysis I made. But I'm not going to ask in a motion to take over Ronald van Raak's analysis. I would like to ask the Chamber to conduct its own investigation and to conduct its own analysis. This is the analysis I can make right now, with the limited resources I have. But I can't predict the outcome of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u86	I actually hear the same thing I often hear from the SP. In substance, I fully agree with Mr Van Raak on a number of points, but it is very much directed against what has gone wrong and at analysing it. Could the representative of the SP mention two things he says: that is where we should go? How is it, Ronald? That's actually the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u87	A number of promises have been made. I think one very important thing is that local embedding. There have been promises about this embedding through amendments and motions. The SP did. The SGP has also done so very emphatically in the establishment of national police forces. That's just not met. We see neighborhood agents who aren't in the neighborhood for weeks, desks that are being shut down massively and agents who lose their desks first and then have to rent another room at the city hall to be in a neighborhood at all. That seems to me to be a very important point. A second very important point seems to me to be very important, but that is my analysis at the moment: very little has changed in terms of culture and management in the national police. That's what Kuijken says; that's what it says. They know each other. That is also the conclusion I read in the report of the Kuijken Committee. If even Kuijken's consultants say that there are too many consultants in the national police force, then I think we should take a look at that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u88	I'm still trying to get some clarity about that investigation, because I actually heard two different things. The first is more content, about the state of the police, actually a Kuijken revisited with other people. The other was more about drawing lessons and about the process as it went in the Chamber. Of the latter, I can imagine more that it is on the way to getting it up through such a committee. Maybe I can get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u89	I totally agree with Mrs Van Buitenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u90	Van Buitenen. That's an interesting slip!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u91	Apologies! We spoke with Mr Van Buitenen recently. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u92	You were at the end of your speech. Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg. She speaks on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are discussing the evaluation of the Police Act. So we're looking back. Of course, we will also look to the future, as many colleagues have done, but it is important that we do not leave the past alone, that we learn lessons. I find it striking and, in fact, incomprehensible that the Minister does not do so anywhere. In no letter does he reflect on the comments of the Kuijken Committee that the formation of the national police was greatly underestimated, that the estate was in a worse state than hoped, that the pace of the extensive reorganisation was far too high, that the financial framework was unacceptablely tight and that the plans were inappropriately centralistic. That's a big deal. The cabinet gets a fat insufficient and in the wake also the Lower House, which has not put a brake on time. How did this happen? I don't mean this rhetorically. I'm just asking, how did it happen that the national police got off to such a bad start? I would like a reflection of the Minister and his thoughts on the lessons the cabinet draws from it. In this respect, I would like to support a motion or investigation for a reflection on how this process could have come about. The report we are discussing today also deals with individuals, the forced actor and the political wishful thinking of the then ruler and chief of police. That has caused a lot of bad blood, as the Kuijken Committee says, with the officers, who were confronted every day with a completely different reality. How does the Minister assess the actions of the then rulers? After all, we're evaluating. Does he see a relationship between the underestimating of the formation of the national police and the continuing absence of sickness? Are there no excuses for this, because policemen have paid the bill for political blindness? Developing and improving. That's what the evaluation report is called. So the police system as such doesn't have to be completely turned upside down again. I agree. But there are systemic problems. A number of colleagues, including Mr Van Dam, have just mentioned this. One problem is the size of the base teams. Herman Tjeenk Willink said it nicely in an interview: "We were wondering what was economically good, or efficient. (...) You can close police stations because you can file a digital report. But the human face is gone." The large base teams and the closing of offices have reduced the visibility and proximity of the police. How does the Minister intend to turn this around? The large teams also lead to the organization becoming more impersonal for many agents themselves, "an anonymous great hope," as some agents said. Then I will return to the task of the team chief and the operational experts. More than 150, to 200, people are too much for a team chief's strength, no matter how good it is. It is therefore logical that they should call for the assistance of operational experts for the management of part of the team, who therefore have the staff interviews. Those are part of the tasks that take place inside. But the office tasks should not prevail, because then the whole idea of those operational experts disappears as coaching foremen and forewomen, who know as some kind of executives what their people do, what concerns them and what they need. With too many inner tasks, you actually only create an extra, new interlayer at the expense of operational strength. If we cannot reduce the basic teams ourselves, we can at least improve the personal guidance in there. A clarification of the role of the oe's gives them more time for the operational tasks and direction in the street. How does the Minister see that? Then, chairman, the boas. The Minister writes to us that their number has actually remained quite constant since 2011. Perhaps so, but their duties have indeed shifted. At first they were mainly concerned with livingability, but now they have mainly been given a security task in many municipalities and are dealing with public order. They have also become much more professional, precisely in order to be able to do those tasks. This indeed threatens the danger of a new municipal police force. This is caused not so much by the mayors who send the boas out, but by the lack of capacity in the police. 'Cause those boas are gonna jump in a hole. For example, the police do not want to provide assistance in prostitution enforcement. It's up to the city itself. And it's the boas who have to maintain the fireworks-free zones. The police are pulling away, for example from the Wallen in Amsterdam. I fully agree with the people who do not want boas to be armed, but this can only be done if the police are immediately on the ground in case of problems, if the driving times are short and if there is sufficient capacity. That is not the case now, and my group is very concerned about that. I don't think the signal "assistance colleague" even applies to boas. Is that right? 'Cause then they're really on their own. That's what I've seen in Brabant, near the green boas, but also in the big cities. One of the union members said it could just go wrong. Well, then we've been warned. How does the Minister see that? In a motion that I have tabled in the course of the budgetary procedure, I would ask for a view from this cabinet on municipal enforcement. I would like to know how the Minister intends to respond to this. Let me stay local for a while, because the temptation here in the Lower House is of course great to send a lot to the police. I think it is very important that we have a national police force, but we live in a decentralised unitary state and it is important to put local people in a position to provide space at local level. That also means something for the LOVP. My group still understands the Minister's consideration of not being an independent chairman, as he has argued, but the influence of the Minister is very great in this gremium. The mayors are much less powerful at the moment. I would like it to be the same as the Minister's. How does he see that? I have read in the papers of the Kuijken Committee that the prosecution is not present enough in the local triangle. The public prosecutor himself does not say anything about this in his response to the Kuijken Committee, although I found it interesting. I hope the Minister will be able to deal with this. Why is it not happening and what is the consequence of this? Of all units, the Eastern Netherlands unit is really very large. The other units have around 1.5 million inhabitants, with the extreme of Limburg, with 35,000 people, but Limburg also has 33 municipalities. But East Netherlands is one fifth of the whole of the Netherlands in kilometres and one sixth in terms of the population, and has no less than 79 municipalities. Moreover, it is a very diverse area. What are the consequences of this size? Can these 79 municipalities be represented in the LOVP as well as in those smaller units? Mr. Chairman. The minister has indicated that he wants more organisational peace for the police. I agree with that in itself. Let us put an end to the pig cycles of alternating savings and investment, which means that the organisation will be extinct. But I'm still very much looking for the best way to do that. Of course, I do not want to restrict Parliament's budget law, but I do want there to be a clear multi-annual perspective, including, for example, the ICT investments that are really needed in the long term. Perhaps the Minister has an idea of how this is best done, so that we really have a multiannual perspective that also gives us some direction in giving a quiet multiannual budget. I have one final point, Madam President. I see time is running out. That's about the police academy. In three years, there'll be fewer cops than at the moment. Mr Van Raak said it, too. There are many different reasons for this, but of course it is not something we can accept. Because the workload for the cops is already too high. In order to be able to take on more people, more training capacity is needed. In any case, it is necessary to continue to train people in between, as a good employer. The question is how to create this additional training capacity. Is it possible to have officers follow parts of the training somewhere other than the Police Academy? I am thinking of the Navy, where, for example, the sea law profession can be followed at a university. Is the Minister prepared to look at unorthodox proposals to structurally increase training capacity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u94	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Den Boer. She speaks on behalf of the D66 Group. Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u95	Mr. Chairman. After years of consultation, the Police Act 2012 came into being under steam and boiling water. And now, more than six years later, we're looking both backwards and forwards. D66 thanks the Kuijken Committee for this evaluation. Let's start with the good news. The police have been relieved of the crippling kingdoms. Trust in blue is still high. Therefore also a compliment to the police organisation, because the store remained open during a turbulent reorganisation. Change and renewal of the police organisation are necessary, but with retroactive effect we can also see that the process has not always been very precise. 100% performance while at the same time reorganising 100%: this is an inhuman task that still takes its toll on the employees. Five years ago, Magda Berndsen, one of my predecessors in the D66 Group, proposed five conditions for the functioning of the new Police Act. Today, I'm gonna put the national police past the same bar. So it's time to stop the clock. What is left of these preconditions? Where are we now? The first condition concerns the district agent. Cherish the neighborhood cop, because he strengthens the sense of security. D66 still believes that the district agent is visible and recognizable to residents. It is precisely for this that sufficient capacity is needed. The standard of one district agent per 5,000 inhabitants is achieved per unit, but there are large differences within the units. It is therefore a good thing that the coalition agreement upgrades the agent in the district, but the evaluation indicates that district agents are unable to spend 80% of the time on the district. That was one of the demands. The district agent often has too many tasks and is therefore overasked. Does the Minister share Kuijken's view that the introduction of the Police Act has created too ambitious an expectation of the district agent? How much percent does the district agent actually spend on and in the neighborhood? This conclusion is also in line with my motion which states that the many security domains have a diffuse task package and that this requires clarity. Is the Minister prepared to give this conclusion by Kuijken to the WRR, the Scientific Council for Government Policy, which is to carry out the motion? Mr. Chairman. The second and third conditions are: guarantee the authority of the mayor and clarify powers. Strengthen the mayor's position! It is of the utmost importance that the police are anchored locally. D66 believes, however, that this can be done better. At the moment, the mayor of the region is not appointed by the minister. The district mayor is the mayor of the largest municipality in the regional unit. In that position, the mayor of the region has short lines to the Ministry of Justice and Security. This leads to delays in information and input from other mayors in the region. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the consultation in the regional college is conducted properly. How is the Minister going to ensure that all mayors are given more say and at the same time have sufficient accountability to their municipal councils? How can the regional college take shape in such a way that other mayors are not left behind? The fourth condition, Chairman, concerned the position of the Chief Constable. Whether the Chief Constable is subordinate and the Minister is fully responsible, or the Chief Constable has a fully independent position where the Minister cannot intervene in all cases. Monitoring plays a crucial role in this division of roles. The Minister is sensitive to the recommendation of the Kuijk Commission that supervision should be more efficient and effective. In addition, supervision should be more independent. Hence my previous motion on this point. D66 likes to see movement in this area. Monitoring raises questions, all the more so because the police have been given more and more responsibilities and because the exercise of the monopoly of violence goes hand in hand with an increasing arsenal of powers and resources. Does the Minister see room for greater transparency in the selection process? There is also a lot to be said about the handling of complaints. It is important that the police can also be brought to order on other points. Now these complaints are dealt with internally in the units. That smells very much like the butcher who approves his own flesh. Can the Minister indicate how the police learn from this complaint handling?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u96	A question from Mr Van Dam. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u97	I would like to go back to Mrs Den Boer's last block, because I heard her warm words about the regional college. I believe that this forum was written out of the law just under the previous Police Act, but that aside. Do I understand correctly that Mrs Den Boer would like to see some kind of reinforcement of the mayor's position, of the position of the little mayor, if I may call it that? But wouldn't that little mayor have been much more helpful just with more capacity on his base team that he can do business with? Isn't that actually the problem we're talking about? If you don't have people, you can't exercise authority over them either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u98	I talked about the position and role of regional mayors. So there are ten mayors who have a short line with the Ministry of Justice and Security. This means that there are 355 minus 10 municipalities, or mayors of those municipalities, who now do not have those short lines with the Ministry of Justice and Security. I would like them to be better informed as well. Edge condition five is about ICT. There's a legitimate concern there. ICT is now a positive point in the Kuijken report, but ICT innovation remains a challenge. A proliferation of ICT experiments is not desirable, and I have let it slip before that it should not go crazy. In short, D66 shares the view that information and communication technology is essential for the police, but let's monitor that we handle it in a smart way. Mr. Chairman. Looking back, the formation of the national police does not deserve a beauty prize, but it is now time to look ahead. It is especially time for peace and space in the organisation. I hope police people find their turn and get their fun and pride back. Although the Netherlands is relatively safe and the police still enjoys the confidence of the Dutch, we must always remain vigilant that the police are and remain locally anchored, not caught up in bureaucracy and control layers, supports society and is accountable for its actions. D66 has the confidence that the Police Act provides a basis for the future. Finally, can the Minister promise that the Police Act will be reviewed in five years' time, so that we can really conclude whether that confidence was justified in the future? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u99	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Laan-Geselschap and she speaks on behalf of the VVD Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Living your life safely in your own neighborhood or neighborhood, without fear; that's the most important thing. Without knowing you're safe, the rest is worthless. And that security is being worked hard every day by people who take a step forward when others take a step back. As you know, I've only had the wallet police for a few months. For that time, I have only experienced the police as we Dutch people all experience. We see them intervene in situations where we prefer to deal with a block ourselves and go after those who threaten our security with danger for our own lives. And yes, sometimes also at times when we are not waiting so much for them, for example when the orange light turned out to be just red. But my admiration has only increased. I see that, although much has already happened, we can take steps to enable the police to do their job as well as possible. We all know that 100% security doesn't exist, but we have to be tough on everyone who threatens our security. People ruin it for others. They're destroying what we've all built up. The police play an important role in this protection, so it is up to us to ensure that they feel supported in this important work. Mr. Chairman. It has been a number of years since the new Police Act came into force. The law, which initiated the reform of the Dutch police. However, I would like to recall why we once decided to do so, in Chambers, by the way. 12 out of 25 corps were under curatel before the introduction; they were simply bankrupt. Because of the lack of uniformity and own ICT systems, computer screens went literally and figuratively black. The reason for the formation of the national police was therefore to bring more unity into the organisation, allowing the police to scale up more quickly in crisis situations, to work cross-border and to use our policemen where necessary. I too will not deny that the transformation into national police has not gone unpunished. It is not possible to do that in an operation of this magnitude. Previously it has been compared to a large-scale renovation which unfortunately is also rarely completed within time and within the budget. I would therefore like to take advantage of this debate to express my deep appreciation for all the policemen who have made it possible to keep the organisation running during this renovation. That's a huge achievement. We must also be honest in this debate. Not all the benefits of the national police that we had in mind have yet been fully realised. People and cops are under a lot of pressure. The absenteeism is relatively high. That is worrying in our eyes, because Dutch people should never feel that the police are no longer able to protect them. But on the other hand, I am not going along with the picture that some parties in this Chamber are drawing, that our country is being taken over by criminals while the police are being held back and that the police are no longer there for you when you report it. As I said, the national police do not yet function as they should. The VVD doesn't close its eyes to that. We have one of Europe's most modern police organizations. Yes, it is. Since 2010, the Rutte Cabinets have added net EUR 1.3 billion to the national police budget, at a time when the government has shrunk by EUR 50 billion. We also continue to look at the content of how the further organisation of the national police can be as well designed as possible. A review took place in 2015 and on this basis the cabinet is working on the further development of the police and the order. This cabinet also invests heavily in the police again. An additional 291 million has been allocated to add some 1,100 FTE to the corps. There is also 91 million available to reduce the workload. But even if we now have an even bigger bag of money, the challenges have not been dealt with tomorrow. For example, due to an ageing population, many officers leave. There are plenty of outlaws who would like to help the police. During the general consultation I suggested Staff to keep them available for the organization to assist, among other things, aspirants. I immediately received a number of enthusiastic e-mails about this. Another problem that cannot be solved with money alone is the specialist knowledge that the police sometimes lack to solve forms of cybercrime. That's why the VVD has proposed that these specialists should volunteer with the police. It is therefore good to see that the first cybervolunteers have obtained the police certificate and are now allowed to work with the police. I think it would be good to see whether this kind of knowledge and specialism can also be used by the police in other areas. Can the Minister respond to this later? Mr. Chairman. As far as the VVD is concerned, the signals for our agents are positive and negative. It is up to us to remove the problems without turning the organisation upside down again, because agents benefit from rest and not from all kinds of new changes. But the police face major challenges. The innovative power of organised crime requires a lot of capacity in terms of manpower and hours available. We need every cop to fight this crime. Then it's a shame we're losing a lot of potential cops because they don't make it through training. From the Police Academy, I understand that this is largely due to the failure of the officers to pass the Professional Fit test at the end of the training. It's a shame forever. In order to increase capacity, I would ask the Minister to see what can be done about this. Is the number of hours of training sufficient during the course? Is it possible to replace the Professional Fit test at the end of the course with the level of the annual physical skill test? As a result, dozens of agents, who have passed the entire training cost of about €100,000, can be added to the corps. Mr. Chairman. In addition, we need to see if we're gonna use our agents properly. Maybe there are tasks that don't belong to the police, but to boas. That way we can relieve the police and give them more time for, for example, detective work after a home invasion. The VVD is talking to the four major cities about tasks and equipment of our boas. Unlike a number of previous speakers, the VVD is in favour of extending the powers of municipal enforcers, in particular the power to act against traffic drivers. For example, the VVD would like the training of boas to allow them not only to have powers within one specific domain, but to have powers in several domains. There must also be sufficient attention in training to aggression against boas and methods of de-escalating. I'd like to hear if the Minister is prepared to take this glove down. The VVD is also concerned about the signs that many cases are being shut down due to lack of capacity. That is partly explained by the fact that the detective work of today is taking more time. New technological developments used by the criminals do not make the work of our agents easier. So more people are needed, but also more flexibility. There are overcrowded teams and understaffed teams, and the police organization is not set to peak moments, but to averages. It can be more flexible. For example, I ask the Minister to see if further experiments can be carried out with flex teams. Mr. Chairman. Another point...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u101	Before you move on to another point, I give Mrs Buitenweg the opportunity to ask her question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u102	I'm intrigued by what I hear. The VVD is apparently in conversation with four municipalities, I understand, about the boas, about expanding the boas' tasks. I'd like to hear more about that. I'd like to know where such a job can go from a boa. How many of the tasks of the police can they take over? Where is a clear border at some point to prevent all kinds of municipal police being created? Or isn't that a big deal, according to the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u103	We have talks with the municipalities and then at first via our own party line. A number of questions have been asked about this from these municipalities. What we really want to do is this. A motion has been adopted by one of our colleagues asking the Minister to come forward with a proposal on this in the spring. Very briefly, Mr President, a boa can only be maintained in one domain. That's what he was trained to do. When he walks on the street and sees something happening in another domain, he is not allowed to do anything with it. What would be nice to us is if they were trained for several domains at once, so that if they walk outside and are the eyes and ears of the police, they could also work with different elements of that outdoor space.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u104	I get that. It is, of course, very unsatisfactory that when you see something that is punishable, you cannot fine it, while you are trained in a particular field. So I get that. But where does the VVD say that goes? Because the whole idea is of course that we are thinking a bit about where we are going. Could it be that the police are completely withdrawing from enforcement, say, the Walls, from checking whether the prostitutes are all subject to authorisation and providing assistance there? Could it be that there are simply agreements, of: that whole area is for the boas and the police are somewhere else? What exactly is the point? Where does the VVD want to be in ten years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u105	We would not want to go to a regional distribution, of: this is a boa area and that is a police area. I don't think that's a good idea. On the contrary, it is worth a great deal to me that the police and the boas are going to cooperate with each other, as we call them, and also to complement each other when it is important for the citizen to be helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u106	Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u107	The VVD has just cut back on the police during the reorganisation, so there are far too few policemen now! There are shortages in every municipality. Does the VVD really want to organize some kind of municipal police of boas and private security? Is that the solution the VVD is putting in here today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u108	What the VVD wants, and I miss that a little bit in Mr Van Raak's input, is that the Dutch feel safe, that people are happy that they live in this country and that, if something is going on, they are assisted by someone who has learned to do so and who can offer them support at the moment when those people are most vulnerable. That's what we want. We're looking for solutions. In the proposal we are making here, we see part of the solution, but again, we would like to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u109	So it's paid for by municipalities. The VVD cuts the costs and the problems in the municipalities over the fence. Where have we seen that before? I went to work not so long ago and walked with the police in Amsterdam for a night. There I have encountered five types of boas in a entertainment area, which barely communicate with each other. They're all people who do their best, really good people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u110	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u111	But there is very little cooperation. The police say we have a plan for tonight to maintain security and order, but we have to act every time because boa's arrest people or appeal to people, when that does not fit in with our plan. Are we not going to get an ordinary police force and some kind of semi-private municipal police working against each other, which are not going to work together?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u112	No, not if things work out the way we want them to. Mr. Van Raak sees bears on the road again. We see an addition to the safety experience of Dutch people. We believe that boas and enforcers can play a role in this. I agree with you: when things work side by side, it is not effective, nor in the interests of these people. So we're gonna have to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u113	I don't see any bears on the road, I see the VVD on the road! That's the problem right now. Soon we'll all have different people working together in the same security area. But that's not gonna work. We can see that now. I ask the VVD why it does not itself take responsibility and says: these are police tasks that simply have to be carried out by policemen. Because the police are far too little in the neighborhoods and because there are all kinds of other people there, we see the ears and eyes of the police disappear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u114	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u115	Because regular police are far too little in the neighborhoods, you also see that the information position of the police is becoming less effective and that the police can thus become much less effective. Doesn't the VVD agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u116	No, the VVD doesn't agree. Mr Van Raak says all kinds of things. He's not entirely consistent either. Apparently, there are five of them now. What we are saying is: make sure that system works properly and clearly. As for those eyes and ears on the street, the police work also shifts to other things, so they are less on the street at all, but they are doing police work. We share that those ears and eyes in the neighborhood are not present at the moment. We've already made that statement together in the AO. I think, together with my colleagues, that the point of the ears and eyes in the neighbourhood could also be solved in part by well-educated, very reliable and enthralled boas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u117	I actually see a lot of comparison between Mrs Laan-Selschap and Minister Opstelten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u118	A compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u119	Well, I didn't mean to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u120	No, I didn't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u121	Mr Kuijken's report is very much about political wish thinking. I see here again, this time very cheerful, VVD-person for me, who says: well, there are some problems, they don't communicate; but you know, in my idea they are supposed to communicate. Now we're walking all over reality again, and that was the whole problem, wasn't it? It has been said that it is too much wishful thinking and that too little is being looked at what the reality is. But at the end of the day, we have not made sufficient human resources available to the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u122	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u123	We always assume it's on the board of the municipalities. And then we're gonna say, "God, the municipalities haven't organized it properly." That's what we're organizing right now!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u124	I didn't hear a question, but I can respond briefly. The compliment from that comparison is fine with me. In addition, the VVD recognises that we have also said that there is a risk in the figures, in the decline in the number of people. We also have a lot of concerns about this, as we mentioned in the AO. So I share that concern with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u125	What does the VVD learn from the conclusions of this report?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u126	That it has been a huge reorganisation process, that it has been based on very high expectations of the whole Chamber and that in that sense you should deal with the people who actually have to carry out that work carefully, perhaps a little more carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u127	I heard it at the beginning: Mrs Laan-Geselschap's VVD, which is one of the great triggers of this formation and this reorganisation, has of course just taken very big risks with the police officers. They have indeed worked hard to keep it up, in the clay, often also with bad means, but it was just not realistic. The VVD has failed in many ways. They wanted to profile themselves as criminals, but they just couldn't. I find it so special that Mrs Laan-Selschap then says that it is really up to the whole Chamber. Because the report is pretty damning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u128	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u129	I'm gonna build it up. Kuijken concludes that it was too ambitious, that the material was not good enough, that the setbacks were not properly calculated. You as VVD, as captain of the cabinet, simply send the police on an impossible mission. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u130	Well, I don't think so. And I also think other reports show that our police are one of the best police forces in the world. I would like to ask Mr Azarkan how he would have wanted to get the police on the road with his 400 million cuts in his own election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u131	We're not supposed to start asking questions again and again. But Mr Azarkan has the floor now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u132	Yes, Mr. Chairman, this is such a cheap trick to get away from your responsibility. Mr. Azarkan wasn't the one who came up with this. That wasn't DENK. This is what I came up with. We are not discussing other reports today, Mrs Laan-Selschap, I say through you, Mr President. We just have a serious report here from a committee that has done so for a number of years. And all you can answer is: yes, how would Mr. Azarkan have done it? Then you go back to a situation two years ago, from a wire transfer. I think that's a lot of running away. Very cowardly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u133	Thank you. Mrs. Laan-Geselschap.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u134	No. It was argued that the police were not sufficiently substantiated. However, that was the case at that time. You can also see that the confidence of the Dutch in the police is still very good at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u135	I would like to return to the constructive part of the debate we have just had on the boa. I'm missing one more thing in that. I think we all feel that the police are a little withdrawn from the neighborhoods and that's filled out by boas. That makes us all a little uncomfortable; it is a discussion point. In my opinion, one of the intentions of the national police was to create a single information organization, which could flow information from the district agent to the highest level. That's, I think, a problem for the boa. He can't tell you in that information, because he's not a BOLO like the police are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u136	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u137	How does Mrs. Laan see that? Is she willing to also in its contacts with the four major cities... I think that is a very special process. Well, I'm curious, too. But how do you view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u138	I look at it in such a way that I know that there are very good contacts, for example, with the organisation of boas in Rotterdam. Information lines of 100%, which you refer to, are indeed not on the agenda, but a lot of information is being shared. Following on from the comments I have just made, I note that one of our colleagues, Mrs Den Boer, has tabled a motion to JenV asking the Minister to streamline the phenomenon of boas and other police lines and the organisation. That is what we want to follow up with our work. That's what we're thinking about. We would therefore like to hear from the Minister how he sees this development. I asked him the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u139	That's a nice answer, but it doesn't match the question I asked. I'd like to know what the VVD thinks. Should the boas get just as much information? Should they be given the same information as all cops on the appeal? Are they getting all the information there is? When I walk with the police, I notice that there are very different practices in the country. I'd like to know what the VVD thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u140	Those different sounds reach us, too. We're thinking very hard about how you should handle it best. But we do want the boas to be a good part of the whole security house. To what extent do you have to share information 100%... You are right to point out a very important point, but we are still thinking about how you should deal with it. It is particularly important that there is more visibility for the eyes and ears in the neighbourhoods. Boas could do more than they're doing right now, without putting the whole police phenomenon aside. Mr. Chairman. We just talked about the absenteeism. It's really annoying for the cops who it's about, even for their home situation. The VVD prefers to see these agents working in a healthy way and cooperating with a safer Netherlands. The Minister's attention to this is very important. In general consultation, we have also called for attention to be paid to this. We really hope there will be results next year. Mr President, I shall conclude. The reason for speaking today was the evaluation of the formation of the national police. There is now one police force working as a single organisation locally, regionally and nationwide on the security of our country. For example, the formation of the national police has increased operational strength. Now we need to develop and improve the police system. The report of the Committee on the Evaluation of Police Act 2012 has not for nothing been given the title Developing and improving. After all, the work is not finished. The VVD is therefore pleased that the Minister accepts the committee's recommendations, but also gives the organisation peace and trust. The organisation does not now benefit from major changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u141	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop, who speaks on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u142	Thank you, Mr President. In the formation of the police, it all seemed so beautiful. The Minister always assured that the police would operate very locally. This is also laid down in an amendment tabled by Mr Van der Staaij. The Kuijken Committee expresses what we already knew in a very neat way. Let me quote: 'the balance on the axes central-central and uniformity differentiation was out of control'. In conclusion, the police have mainly become a national police which is good at national priorities, but the problems at local level remain under-exposed. With that tension in mind, the SGP would like to make the following points. The first is the point of Randstad and province. The evaluation contribution of the King's Commissioners clearly states that there is a police-free countryside, with long driving times and the lack of visible presence, supervision, detective capacity and a functioning police in the water. Somewhere we read something about Rotterdamisation of the police. That is that policemen in the countryside feel swallowed up and are forced to work as metropolitan police. The SGP recognises the need for sufficient police capacity in urban areas, but it is clear, also from this evaluation, that more attention is needed for the province. This is reflected in practice and the evaluation also points the finger at this. Mr. Chairman. Let's look at this relationship between local and national priorities. Officially, local priorities are the basis of the police organisation, but the practice is different. We constantly read and hear about long driving times in small rural municipalities and about municipalities that do not have direct current information for their local security policy, not to mention the position of the mayors of those municipalities. It's kind of a top-down approach. As far as we are concerned, that really needs to change. The evaluation also gives every reason to take steps in this direction. Several colleagues have already referred to the balding of police stations, from 400 in 2014 to the planned 167 in 2025. Then indeed the police become literally invisible, because no agency also means less presence and less surveillance around that agency and in that municipality. A cop doesn't start and finish his shift at that location anymore. As far as we're concerned, the police are taking another central position in the village. Not as a municipal police, because for the movement to the national police there were good reasons and they have not changed, but they have been like a police in every municipality. Then I shall refer to you again: you will soon get tired of it, and that is exactly what you intend to do, until you put your head in the lap, the neighborhood agents. "Within units there are significant differences per municipality in terms of coverage of district agents." That's a quote from the evaluation report. Over and over again, the Chamber has indicated that the law requires that district agent to be there in every city. I've drawn attention to that before. We agree, I think I am listening to what colleagues have to say about the fact that you cannot put the district agents on hold, pay too little attention to them, or give them too little space to replace them with boas. That's not an alternative. It is also formally a question of police duties. To a paper average district agent who is now working happily in a neighboring city district, a village simply has nothing. So there's really got to be one. I would urge the Minister to adapt the practice now to the law, both letter and spirit. Neighborhood cops get overwhelmed, we get to read. They are given too many tasks and the 80% standard appears to be realistic and feasible in very few places. A colleague mentioned that as well. So that wasn't news yesterday. Uncle Roel, the district agent for the outskirts of Putten, hasn't been in his own neighborhood in 14 days. It is precisely in the proverbial pristine countryside that crime is increasing. He can point to the undermining, but he doesn't have time to do anything about it. You should really leave that cop in his own neighborhood. So the question to the Minister is: can the Minister guarantee today that the 80% standard will actually be maintained? As a result, the issue of detective capacity. Local agents often don't have a good point of contact where notifications can be made. In a motion we once asked for good cooperation between district agents, local teams and local detectives to tackle organised crime properly. Just this small crime is the basis for big boys or part of their criminal network. What room does the Minister see, even with the evaluation in mind, for strengthening that local detective? Does he also want to pay more attention to this in strengthening local priorities? Then the scale. The too large scale is one of the problems. If you look at the map of the region layout, you can see at a glance that that region layout is skewed. This creates new, informal structures. I never realized that, but when I went into that I realized that, if you drive from the west of Friesland to the headquarters in Groningen and from the west of the region East to Apeldoorn, you're talking about about about 100 kilometers. However well everyone does their best, this automatically reduces their understanding of concrete local wishes from an unknown region. What does the Minister think of Fijnaut's theorem that the Police Act offers room to classify the base teams municipal and to give them accommodation there? Is the Minister prepared to promote that? Then the role of the mayors. I've been referring to it for a while. Mayors have a role of authority. In the local triangle but also in the region they have to defend municipal interests, but with dozens of mayors there are no short lines with the leadership of a unit to make a fist for his municipality. A mayor who does have authority, but can't say anything, has nothing to say about police in his congregation, can in fact not do his job properly. How is the minister going to give the mayor's authority real hands and feet? Clear powers and instruments to really do something are really needed. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Sometimes you sigh after another policy discussion about the police "we could only without police in our country and in this whole world." But reality is different. In these weeks of Advent we remember that through the coming of the Prince of Peace Jesus is again possible peace between God and man and between people. That advent is also looking for a new heaven, a new earth on which justice dwells, in which lion and lamb live together. That's a beckoning perspective, but until then, we also need good police. We wish the minister, the police department and the police personnel a great deal of wisdom in doing what is necessary for this. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u143	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u144	Those are fine words, yet I think Mr Bishop talks a bit like we are still in the era of Bromsnor, the policeman who is constantly surveilling his bike through the neighborhood. Of course, those eyes and ears in the neighborhood are very important. We have all endorsed this, but the police are also modernising and the people in the Netherlands are not just the people who sit behind the geraniums and behind the curtains waiting for the police to come along. No, man is also mobile, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u145	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u146	Man is also on the Internet. How does Mr Bishop appreciate the steps taken by the police to move mobile, for example with pop-up tables and in all kinds of other ways? For example, we know the practices of Mr Berenschot of the Rotterdam police, who also sits on the train to talk to people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u147	That seems to me to be an excellent way of working. I wouldn't want to go into how that should happen, but in order to ensure security, it's important that you know the area, the neighborhood, the municipality or the village. That's the underlying idea of neighborhood cops. It's not about taking the saber side by side, taking the bike and driving down the streets. Indeed, we do not go back to the days of Swiebertje, Bromsnor and that sort of thing. Of course, it must be equipped with the necessary digital tools. You name it all. But if you stick to the standard that the law lays down and put one district agent on 5,000 inhabitants, that's not an average but just a right, then you have knowledge in the heart of society thanks to all the support. In the time of Bromsnor and Swiebertje it was about 1 in 500 inhabitants, eh. We're talking about one in five thousand. You don't do that to spy suspiciously, but to be informed and to be able to act preventively. That is why it is so important to invest in it. It can prevent a lot of misery and crime. It can also occur at certain times, especially in certain regions, in the case of youth derailment when it comes to drug use and that sort of thing. That's why that's so incredibly important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u148	Thank you. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Azarkan. Mr Azarkan spoke on behalf of the DENK Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u149	Mr President, thank you. The formation of the national police in 2012 is a mission that the VVD, the CDA and the PVV should never have started in this way. In that nasty office, as far as I am concerned personally, the low point in our parliamentary history, this dubious police mission was also decided upon. It is a mission that has already been warned of in advance by many experts. Don't do it like that, the unions said, because the area of mergers and reorganisations is a dangerous area. Research shows that 70% of the objectives are not met in the case of mergers and reorganisations. This often concerns the merger of two organisations, let alone 26. If you put that together into one organization with 65,000 employees, you're doing a lot of work. The Kuijken Committee rightly concludes that it was a romantic desire to create a lean organisation. I was just talking about that. Imagine that. I read those words in that report: a romantic desire. A dangerous desire, according to the committee, because such a top-down perseverance is contrary to our Dutch democratic polder values. What a qualification actually, that the government acts on the basis of a romantic desire. If I suffer from a romantic desire, I buy a bunch of roses for my partner, a chocolate letter or maybe at the last minute a gift in a shop or something. But since when does the cabinet make big decisions, with a huge impact on society, on the basis of what the committee calls a "romantic desire" and "wishful thinking"? The tri-unit VVD, CDA and PVV continued and did not really respect the standards and values of the polder. That mission had to come; the romantic desire to steer top-down, the wet dream of the VVD to profile itself as a crime fighter. We saw in practice how that turned out, how that went wrong with Opstelten and Bitches. Consciously, the VVD, the CDA and the PVV chose to take risks with the police organisation, to play high game with their mission. To allow ordinary citizens to run risks too. To send the policemen into the dull Dutch clay, without boots, where they fought a battle that couldn't be won. Compliments to all those employees. It's only thanks to those policemen that the organization is still somewhat running. However, this has not just happened. This has had its impact on their personal well-being, on their families, on the drop-out, on the drop-out and on the absenteeism, which went towards the 7%. By the way, that doesn't apply to the corps leadership, because it's at 2.9%, so they're doing something else there. That's where they do a good thing, I guess. Mr. Chairman. That mission was actually a mission impossible. The objectives were deliberately too ambitious. The timeline was deliberately too tight. There wasn't the right material. There was no proper presentation given. The communication lines were jammed. Misfortunes were underestimated. And there was no exit strategy, no going back. In the end, the government responsible wanted a sheep with five legs, with a curly tail and some wings. Of course, the chances of getting that done are extremely low. Once again, a very critical report by the Kuijken Committee. I have a procedural question for the Minister first. Why are we only debating this report 13 months after it has been published? Isn't that also a sign of urgency? It's like keeping a patient in the emergency room waiting a year. The police are sometimes also a matter of life and death. I hear colleagues here very loudly talking about the urgency of doing something, but the practice is that we just wait a year and a month before we discuss this and we just say to the Minister: take seven months to write a reaction. Mr President, my second question. ...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u150	Before you go any further, I would like to point out that the Chamber deals with the assignment and certainly with the various activities that the Chamber has introduced before we deal with this evaluation. You're asking the Minister. Of course, he may respond to that, but I would remind you that it is mainly the Chamber that deals with the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u151	Thank you very much for this procedural addition, Mr President. My group always suspected that the formation of national police was partly a disguised austerity measure. Is it true, I ask the Minister, that a cut of 230 million was envisaged, as indicated in Andersson Elfers Felix's report? And is it also true that this austerity has not been achieved, but that instead the total cost of the police has increased by 6%? How does the Minister judge that? Then I come to one of the most shocking comments in the report for me. We are actually having a very strange debate. It is not at all clear how well or how badly the police function. Firstly, the Committee concludes that it is far too early for this. Kuijken says in a round table: it is in the law that we would do this; the minister asked it and the committee wanted it, but actually it is too early to make real statements about the effect of the law on the functioning of the police, on output and on outcome. Kuijken goes on to say: neither the corps leadership, the ministry, nor the colourful set of authorities and supervisors has an image of the police organisation's performance; this should be improved. Yes, Mr. Chairman, of course it should be better. That sounds like quite an understatement to me. But I find it rather complicated. How can we as a Chamber carry out our statutory audit task if it is not clear how well or how badly the police function? What about the law? Does that law do what she's trying to do? Mr. Chairman. How can we, as a Chamber, carry out this controlling task if it is not clear? What's the Minister gonna do about it? How can we explain to the citizens in the country that the police are working and that we, as politicians, are making the right decisions here? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The police belong to everyone. In the end, Kuijken advises everyone involved in the report, the national police must become a real national institution. The police must not belong to the Empire or the Ministry, but to and from everyone and the collective. In the end, it is important that the police have support from all Dutch people, that all Dutch people feel represented by the police, that all Dutch people feel safe, and that the police are vigilant and serviceable to all Dutch people. I assume the Minister agrees with me. What is the Minister going to do to restore that confidence, to increase that confidence? Mr. Chairman. There's no turning back. We have to move on, through that mud, through that clay layer, no matter how humid. It is advisable, however, to take a close look at the recommendations of the Kuijken Committee. That's why I'd like to hear from the Minister what he's going to do by recommendation. Because there are often several partial and sub-recommendations, I would also like to hear a quantitative statement on how he will interpret and implement this. Mr. Chairman. The committee also evaluated the minister. The committee notes that the Minister has become too powerful, that he has too many different roles. The game of hats by Grapperhaus, we say to the group. He draws up the police budget with a budget cap, he approves the budget with an approval cap, he sits with the presidents to consult with the Public Prosecutor and mayors about deployment, and he supervises the police with a surveillance cap. You can do better than that. But I read that the Minister actually likes all those hats. He'd like to do something with the Chief Constable to chair the organized consultation. But what is the Minister going to do about this power, which is far too much with him? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u152	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf. It speaks on behalf of the Christian Union Group. Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u153	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. The formation of the national police has been quite a major operation. It didn't go without a fight. It has asked a lot of people and it has also taken its toll. All the greater, when I speak to policemen, is my appreciation of their loyalty, for they do their work with conviction and with heart and soul. That is why they face a safe society every day. It is the task of the corps leadership, the minister but also of us as Chamber that they are enabled to do their job properly. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union thanks the Kuijken Committee for the evaluation report on the Police Act. The committee is firmly in its reflection. I quote: "The Police Act is not perfect and neither is the way in which the reorganisation from the department and the corps leadership has been implemented. The formation of the national police has been greatly underestimated. Too much had to change at the same time and in too short a time." I ask the Minister how he looks back on this reflection. I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. The evaluation might come a little early. We cannot yet fully assess the functioning of the new police organisation. The Christian Union agrees with the Minister that the organisation should now be given rest and time to grow and stabilise. So we are not in favour of a system change or major and radical changes, but there are concerns within the system. Mr. Chairman. As a positive aspect of the reorganisation, the Christian Union sees that there has been more knowledge exchange and more unity in the way the police operate. We hear that from the practice, but then we also see it in the evaluation of the Kuijken Committee. When the Police Act was introduced, the Christian Union asked very critical questions about the local priority in centralising the police. At the time, the Christian Union was concerned that the centralisation of the police would lead to the loss of the local priority and that the distance from the police would increase. Those concerns still exist. In addition, complaints from police officers should be given a voice. Agents indicate that the system change has increased the roster pressure. There are stories of sometimes ten to twelve night shifts in four weeks; that's a lot. Agents also indicate that the relationship with colleagues and the relationship with the area where they work has been reduced by the large base teams, and that they can spend less time in the neighborhood and thus less close to the citizen. We're worried about these complaints. The Christian Union asks the Minister how he intends to respond to these concerns. I would like to draw particular attention today to the position of the mayors in the smaller municipalities, the municipalities that do not know the mayor of the region. For their position has not improved in the new system, contrary to what was intended. The basic teams in the rural areas are divided into many of the most small municipalities. As a result, the distance between the mayor, the team chief and the public prosecutor has increased and the information sharing has deteriorated, so mayors indicate. That is not a good thing, given that mayors are ultimately responsible for local security within the municipality and municipal councils have the task of monitoring it. Mr. Chairman. I'm quoting a mayor. He wrote to me: "It feels more and more like we're asking the police for a favor. More often than before, the police have to sell no and answer: mayor, we don't have the people. Then you notice the big tension field in which you do have the authority and are responsible for the safety in your municipality, but can't control it. But it wasn't meant to be like that." If the mayors in the new system still have enough opportunity to bear their responsibilities, I ask the Minister. And does the Minister agree that mayors of smaller municipalities should be more and more adequately involved in local security policy? I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. Then the size of the base teams and the position of the team chiefs. The centralisation of the police and the introduction of the large base teams have lost a lot of local knowledge among police officers and reduced local involvement and commitment. A good example that shows that local involvement is possible within this centralization, I find the basic team in Haringvliet. There policemen had to stake out a team, sometimes in a different place every day, making the connection to the local neighborhood impossible. The closure of a police station led police officers to drive to a police station in another place in order, for example, to dress up or attend a briefing. It was the team chief a thorn in the eye. In order to be more locally involved and to be visible to the population in the neighbourhood, she has worked hard to change that. She managed to cut the big base team into four smaller teams and open an extra police station. The Christian Union considers this to be an initiative that can be appreciated and also believes that we should give team chiefs more space and powers to organise and shape the base team as they see fit. I would like to ask how the Minister looks at that and how he now looks at the size of the base teams that have arrived. Finally, Mr President. Policemen should be allowed to do their job properly. It is about protecting the safety of citizens, on the streets, but also online. In doing so, we in the Chamber must not only ask ourselves whether the police system is functioning properly, but also what is needed for this. This includes trust in the professionalism of the police officer. Trust in the police officer creates commitment, responsibility and ownership. The Christian Union is happy to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u154	Thank you. Mr Van Dam's last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u155	Yeah, I kept the books, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u156	Look.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u157	I heard Mrs Van der Graaf touch something that Mrs Den Boer of D66 also touched, namely the position of the little mayor, although of course it is very disrespectful to say so. I'd like to know specifically what you're talking about. Are you suggesting that there should be other legal powers for that mayor? Or are you saying there's gonna be more capacity for that mayor? For that is what I hear you say, I think: they do not have the people to exercise their authority. If you mean the latter, how do you see a solution to that within the framework that we now have?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u158	I see that the mayors are raising several points of interest. Of course, they call it lack of capacity. That's a common complaint. We have made additional capacity available for that. But we need to see how that lands now and whether it will improve at that point in the future, perhaps already next year. The mayors indicate that, if they are not regional mayor, they will not be given enough information to fulfil their role properly. That needs to be improved. In addition, the mayors indicate that they see that under pressure from the national priorities, local priorities must be undermined. The law has given them the power to say: if there are local security issues, then the mayor has the authority over the police to use those people to take action. When they see that and put that question in the triangulation, they get zero, because there is no room for it anymore, because the priority is with the national priorities. I think that is an important point that has emerged from the evaluation. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to this. I think the Minister should consult with the mayors to get to work on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u159	Thank you. You were at the end of your speech, I see. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet. He speaks on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats). Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u160	Mr. Chairman. If your bike is stolen or if you are rolled, you often only report for insurance. The same applies tragically to a large proportion of home invasions, car thefts and so on. Hardly anyone expects anything to happen to his report anymore. In many cases, it is nothing more than a formality, a symbolic action that you take out of duty or, indeed, for insurance. Only one in five of the victims of a crime is therefore still reporting. And to the extent that people do report it, it's often quite a challenge to find a desk. In the last five years, no less than 200 out of 480 police stations have been closed. The closure of another 100 police stations is planned for the coming years, while district offices are of great importance for security. Really absurd policy ideas! In spite of the difficulties, 55% of the reports that are made and made to police officers then end up in the trash. 55%! This means that at least 91% of all crimes in the Netherlands, that is to say nine out of ten, are not investigated at all because there are simply not enough policemen and because the agents who are still there are not busy catching criminals but filling out forms for consultants. Our policemen are doing a fantastic job, but with the resources available they simply cannot guarantee security in our country. The police are overloaded, with long working days, debilitating night shifts and too little break. Some time ago there was a demonstration of police officers trying to make these problems clear to us at the door of the House of Representatives. They all said the same thing: there are far too few agents, who do far too much work and also receive far too low a salary for this. Robbery's in the police department. That is also apparent from the figures. The average absenteeism in the Netherlands is about 4%, but in the police it is 8%, double, and in the police it is 12%, triple. This, of course, increases the workload for the other people in the police force. It's a self-enhancing process to the bottom. And there's an even bigger problem. Due to a lack of vision of the future, the police force has been allowed to gradually grow old. This means that in the next five years, about a third of all agents, one in three, will flow out. A total of about 15,000 people are involved. The police academy can't deliver enough new agents to fill this huge and rapidly emerging shortage. Police academies have even been closed by previous VVD Ministers of Justice. Due to the closure of several academies, only about 1,000 agents per year arrive from the academy. The shortage of agents is therefore increasing and the problems are getting worse and worse. The cabinet is there and looks at it. We are on the eve of the more or less complete break-up of our security device. Even now, only one in ten criminal organizations is being investigated by the police at all. We must therefore conclude that safety in the Netherlands can no longer be guaranteed. Already municipalities recommend women to stop jogging at night. Even now, more and more mayors and municipal officials need to be protected. Rule is forethought, is the saying. Let us imagine how this will develop in the years to come with this outflow and with these rising deficits. We're heading for a complete disaster. And the minister, he sighs, he supports, he looks on his phone, he does nothing. Nothing. He's shielding with some brushed-up crime figures and some false statistics for the stage. The police we are talking to also say that they are very gloomy. Any sense of priority in the government turns out to be nothing at all. The extra resources the Minister has promised to address the workload are patches for a life-threatening arterial bleeding. It is far from enough to bring the police force back to full strength and make the Netherlands safe again. The Democracy Forum wants this cabinet to stop immediately with the absurd climate targets, which are going to cost us about 1,000 billion, including through higher energy bills, in order to eventually, hopefully, bring about 0.00007°C less warming. We want to invest in the police force now, Mr. Grapperhaus. We want more training, to train 20,000 police officers as soon as possible. We want more pay for these agents, better equipment, faster and more impressive cars, bodycams on all uniforms, reopening of closed neighborhood offices, better working conditions, training opportunities and guidance for heavy projects and missions, etc. And we don't want 100 million or 200 million. Where this Chamber and this cabinet have no difficulty spending 1,000 billion dollars on completely absurd and unfeasible climate chimes, they do not want to invest in the safety of our people. It's a disgrace! We now want EUR 1 billion for the police, for better salaries and for better training institutions. For next year alone we want 1 billion, and then next year we want to review again and not in five years' time, as the cabinet suggests, because 30% of the agents will have already been flooded and it will be too late. $1 billion. That is one thousandth of what this cabinet is prepared to spend on all that climate crap.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u161	Thank you. A question from Mrs Den Boer. Your last, Mrs. Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u162	My final question, Mr President. Yes, Mr. Baudet. You were in front of the closet this morning and I think you put on your seven-mile boots again. You walk through matter with very large steps...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u163	Thanks for the compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u164	...and you're not looking seriously at the evaluation of the Police Act. The Netherlands has become safer. You claim the opposite. You are not saying anything about the value of the police in this society and about the effort it takes the police organisation to actually complete this reorganisation properly. What are your words of hope and optimism for the future, instead of all this frightening?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u165	I appreciate the police very much. The cops are doing a great job. They're great people, too. I've spoken to a lot of people and we also receive emails almost daily. I'll read you a piece. "After 36 years of working in various positions in the The Hague Police Department, working area Schilderswijk, I resigned, because I think it is going completely the wrong way with the police. From the workplace I can say that there are no agents to join, but that the available staff must be deployed differently." So that's a positive, optimistic cop. He says about the office in 1979: one chief of the desk, one sergeant, eight shiftlifters and 14 agents per shift on the street. Now the same desk has one chief of the desk, four chefs, nine shifters, nine mentors, fourteen matter experts and only six people who can actually go out on the street. So it's not just a matter of more people. I will get to that in a moment, because more people are also needed, perhaps not here but in many other places. But it is also a question of tackling bureaucracy. That is something that is absolutely comprehensively addressed in this evaluation. So I would say that my words of hope are next. First of all... The people in the police are great. Second. I think that more and more people in the Netherlands are seeing bureaucracy rise. Third. Many people in the Netherlands no longer want to continue with the crazy climate madness that is going to cost us 1,000 billion and where we can get a lot of money to improve the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u166	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u167	Thank you. So 1 billion has to be added! That's a thousandth of what this cabinet is willing to spend on the green madness. Put the fist on the table in the minstrel, Mr. Grapperhaus. The safety of people in the Netherlands is a priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u168	Mr Grapperhaus is the Minister for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u169	Yeah, for now. Strengthening our policemen is a priority. Stand up for your own people! Stand up for the people in the Netherlands instead of all that climate crazy that no one can help at all. Extra money alone is not enough. I just said that in response to the interruption. This cabinet, which, as has been said, is prepared to spend 1,000 billion on possible, possibly 0.00007°C less warming, signed last Monday's controversial Marrakech immigration pact, which will further increase immigration and therefore crime. How irresponsible can you be? How unthinking can you be? Minister Grapperhaus, please respond to that. What do you think of that? That's mopping with the tap open, isn't it? That's absurd, isn't it? And one more thing. It is not just about money and restoring control over our borders. As long as there is no change in the extreme bureaucratic pressure we have just been talking about, which affects our agents, we will not solve the problem. Of the approximately 65,000 people working in the police, 15,000 work in management. Can it not be cut in order to reduce the administrative burden and thereby increase the effective impact of the police organisation? I'd like an answer from the Minister. Cops shouldn't be chained to their desk chair, they should be deployed where they really need to be: on the street. The national police should have reduced bureaucracy, but nothing came of it in practice. When is the Minister finally gonna work out that cops can be cops on the streets again and not be burdened by ruthless and unnecessary bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u170	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u171	We want bureaucracy to be structurally reduced next year. Review again, before 1 July 2019! And if it hasn't improved, apparently the minister can't do it and he has to make room for someone else. We shall also table a motion for this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u172	Thank you. I note that the debate on the migration pact was discussed in detail last week. It is therefore up to the Minister whether he wishes to respond or not. This brings us to the end of the Court's contribution in the first term. I'd like to suggest you suspend until 8:55 p.m. Then I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to reply in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u173	The next item is the debate on the evaluation of the Police Act 2012. We've closed our dinner break with the first term of the Chamber. I would now like to give the floor to the Minister for Justice and Security for the first-term answer. I don't know if the Minister can indicate anything about how to respond, whether that goes into blocks or otherwise? Then we can take that into account. The Minister has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u174	Mr President, thank you. In a moment, I will devote some of my own considerations to the evaluation of the Police Act. Then I will deal with the questions that are very close to that new order. Then I have also received a number of questions from Members of Parliament who, let me say, may at least have to do with the police and perhaps have a hook with the order, but are also somewhat detached from it, such as Mr Krol's power gun. Well, not his own, but the question he had about that. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the evaluation of the police system. That order was unanimously embraced by your Chamber in 2012. If you read the first paragraphs of the opinion of the Kuijken Committee, you will see in the consideration of all the important objectives and interests that they even go back to Thorbecke to indicate how long we have been looking together for a police system that would be optimal for the rule of law, for security, but also for the police and just for the citizens. As in the former television series Columbo, I am already going to tell you what the plot is, because I will tell you that I think it is a really good new system, but we are not there yet. Some of your Members have rightly said that I am going to make very critical remarks in the reply, which I believe I should be working on as a minister. Anyway, the evaluation committee said no one wants to go back to the previous order. In that respect, my statement was perhaps somewhat gratuitous, because everyone thinks that this is the order that fits our state system. The committee also says that it takes time to complete the order further and that the evaluation actually came too early. That is why the Committee's motto 'developing and improving' inspired me and I have taken it on board. If you'll allow me, Mr President, I'd like to look back on a little historian before we go back to the present and the future. There's been a lot of talk about the faults of the previous order. The investigation of the Public Order and Security Inspectorate into cooperation arrangements between the 26 corps at the time showed that the 1993 order was definitely no longer sustainable. The nineteen agreements can be viewed historically as the last chance for our then regional police system. The agreements concerned ICT, staff, equipment and above-regional cooperation. In 2010, the inspection found that these agreements had failed. I would just like to quote, if you will allow me, the inspection: 'There is a culture among the corps in which they give their own interpretation on essential elements which differs from the agreements made in the Council of Chiefs. As a result, the fulfilment of agreements made within the corps and the provision of police cooperation in the Netherlands is not a matter of course, nor is it the follow-up by the leadership." What was the result? Each corps had its own organizational structure, its own work processes and its own ICT systems. Screens literally went black because the ICT got jammed. My predecessor also felt compelled to bring ICT under his direct management. Corpses were ineffective in the execution of tasks and inefficient in management. The above-regional cooperation was difficult and cost a great deal of administrative pressure. Eventually, almost half of the corps were under financial care. Business costs were too high and there were more agents than was made affordable. When the quartermasters took a close look at the entire police organisation, they concluded that it would be better to ask for a broader mandate than the limited initial task, when this plan was still in its infancy, only to adapt the management and top structure of the police. That was because the conclusion of the inspection on management also appeared to apply to operational cooperation. There was very limited learning from each other. The exchange of operational information simply did not take place. It was impossible to report where, for example, your pockets would have been rolled if it wasn't your hometown. We can't imagine that anymore. It was of course too wide a variety of work processes and views on how to do the best police work. "Not invented here" was often sufficient reason not to want to learn. Then I flush over to now and then I see that the ICT has really gotten better with the police for miles. The police receive national and international awards for ICT. Then I see that there is one police force that works much better internally, where information is exchanged more than ever and where units help each other and learn from each other. And that helping and assisting each other is also identified by the committee as one of the major points of profit. I see that through sustainable investment, also by this cabinet, the police are financially healthy again. And I see that with the development of governance in the police, an ever better balance is emerging between central and decentralised, and between management and authority, and that the key players in the system are finding each other ever better. Is everything okay? No! Is it better than before? Yeah, significantly better. Here is the saying: you must be proud of where you are now, but not satisfied with where you are. Is the order a quiet possession? No. And it never was. This is also stated in Terpstra's study, which is annexed to this report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u175	A question from Mr Van Raak. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u176	About the ICT the minister is so pleased with. Research carried out by SP among 1,627 officers, police officers who participated in the investigation last year, shows that 80% say that the information systems I have to work with are not in order. Over 70% say they don't always have a vehicle at their disposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u177	Vehicle?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u178	85% of people say they can do their jobs less well now. 60% of police officers say that the introduction of national police has reduced security in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u179	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u180	I once offered this report to the Minister, but he never responded to it. Would he now like to respond to these figures?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u181	Mr President, I thought it was a question about ICT. There has been a special committee, which is also mentioned in the Kuijken report, which has in recent years focused on putting the police ICT in order. I have reported several times in your Chamber over the last few years on a large number of ICT projects with the police which have indeed succeeded. I have referred here in this Chamber, both in general discussions and in plenary debates, for example to the MEOS system, which is very much used by police officers on the streets. I have spoken in a somewhat larger atmosphere about systems developed by teams in Groningen and Amersfoort that can easily map criminal networks with a few push buttons. And that means an enormous efficiency of detection. I can go on like this for a while. I have just said that, of course, there may still be points of dissatisfaction. I have already made almost 40 work visits and I have made a lot of them without any dignitaries or anyone around me. I then hear about the experiences of police officers and who say: "We've come a long way. We are really much and much better equipped, but there are still things that can do better."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u182	This ICT receives national and international awards, and if the minister gets anywhere, it's all praised. But in the meantime, 80% of the agents say that the information systems they have to work with are not in order. Over 80% say the police have become less efficient. 85% say that the quality of service has decreased. 60% say that thanks to the introduction of national police, the Netherlands has become less safe. Are we not right about the problem that the Minister is constantly presenting figures here, including figures on the number of policemen, who turn out to be completely different when we check them with the police? There won't be more cops, but there'll be fewer cops. It's not gonna get any better, but it's gonna get worse. Are we not getting to the heart of the problem here, namely that the reality of the ministry is something other than the reality of the agencies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u183	No, Mr. President, we don't have that problem. At the most, we have the problem that Mr Van Raak collects his own figures in his own investigations. And that's his right. I will be referring later to a CBS investigation on the visibility of police officers. I am based on investigations that do not come from myself. That's one. And the second is that last time, in an AO, there was confusion about the numbers of strength. That was not because of me, and Mr Van Raak knows it. I sent a letter about this, in which I made a very clear statement about the strength. Anyone who can add and subtract can see that an extra 1.111 fte will be realized by the police in 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u184	Your third question, Mr. Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u185	The Minister keeps saying: yes, Mr Van Raak comes up with his own figures. And I'm entitled to that. Well, thank you. The Minister has constantly tried to convince the Chamber that there will be additional agents and that at the end of the cabinet period there will be more agents than now. My associate did that on a Sunday afternoon on a beer skin and it turns out that there are far fewer agents at the end of the cabinet period. I have submitted this to the Minister and the Ministry must also admit that at the end of the cabinet period there are no more, but fewer agents. Does the Minister understand that I don't have much with the Ministry's figures?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u186	I am afraid that I am not so arrogant in the passing on of the figures to assume the end of the cabinet period. My officials certainly don't do that. It is not for me to determine it, but for the electorate or your Chamber. In the figures for the Chamber, I spoke about years and 2022 was said by heart, because I can also calculate the head of the Chamber at least at a time when this cabinet is no longer democratically present. It is therefore outside the cabinet period of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u187	Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u188	That's the way it is, Madam President. It's a good thing you're here. The Minister comes here with half-truths and figures that are not right. Then you do your job as a MP and you make sure the numbers are in order, then you confront the minister and then you're called arrogant. This is exactly the problem. That's not just the problem I have, but that's the problem that a lot of people in the police organization have. If they have justified criticism and legitimate questions, they are thrown away and it is done with: you are not working hard enough, you must do better, you are arrogant and you must keep your mouth shut. Cops aren't gonna shut up, and I'm not gonna shut up. Cops are gonna take action, and I'm gonna keep criticizing the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u189	Yeah, I took that arrogance on myself. It is absolutely not for me to judge your Chamber or its members. I am not like that either, but of course you must experience the latter yourself. It would also be arrogant if I were to judge it myself. But I want to go back. The letter is dated 3 December 2018, with number 29628-834. The reader can judge the figures for himself. It sets out the situation with regard to the rise in formation and also with regard to the occupation. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll move on to where I left off, because I said you shouldn't be satisfied with where you are. To that extent, I would like to go with Mr Van Raak, but just a little bit, that as a minister I should not say: well, here we are! No, we must continue to work, as the committee states, on the completion of that process. I also sense a broad wish in this Chamber to conclude this phase of education. It is necessary to do so in the short term, but the report shows that the system offers a lot of perspective in the long term. Finally, before I say anything about the police themselves and about the police, I would like to comment on this review. Mrs Buitenweg asked me how I think my predecessors did it. Again, I am of course the last person to judge pastors, let alone descendants, but that is another story. I would like to point out to you that my predecessors, Kuijken also referred to this point, admitted that it was too much, too soon. That's when the review came in 2015. It is also in line with your Chamber, and I have said before in this Chamber: it was easy for me to talk about it, because I came in at a later date, of course. But I think it has really been very sensible that this review has taken place and that it was also very good that your Chamber went along with it. That's what the committee says. Mr. Chairman. From international studies...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u190	Before you go any further, a question from Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u191	Of course, it is always good for people to say 'it went too fast' afterwards, if that is recognised. But my question was not just about that recognition, although I also said that it might be a good thing that this equestrian recognition was there. I also asked how it could have gotten this far. I think it is important that we learn lessons from this. When we say what Mrs Laan-Selschap is suggesting, namely "we did it so quickly, because that was also necessary; yes, it is annoying, but we did achieve something," I do not think we are taking the right lesson. It's made a huge switch on those cops on the street. So the question is: how could that have happened and what is the lesson that the Minister has learned from this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u192	Kuijken, in this case the Kuijken Committee, does give a number of leads. In fact, Kuijken also says: too much has been wanted too quickly. I outlined to you in my introduction that a lot of things were not going well. I also see things in some other countries, which we are now happy to get rid of. This report, which we have all read, gives us a very clear summary of this: too much, too quickly, that that is at the heart of the problem. What I learned very clearly and what I learned from it as a new entry was: this has been a very big reorganisation, perhaps the largest ever within the government, and we have to go a lot further and we have to go that piece with patience with each other. As a Chamber, I really need to inform you of this periodically. I have had a lot of debates on the police over the past year, but I think that is right, because this is something I have to keep you in. That's one. Mrs Kuik van de PvdA said about this: we must continue to do so together. You must continue to question me very critically, but I have heard enough about this today. At the same time this is not so much the Weihnachtsoratorium as the Matthäus: it is "Patience! Patience!" We need to finish this process carefully with each other. Mr. Chairman. I'm taking some time to explain, but that's the lesson I took out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u193	It is indeed a lesson that we should have slowed down. But it could also be a lesson that we should have listened a little more to what the unions said, to what the people who did the real work said, because they warned that it was too much and that it was all too centralistic, that there were too few financial resources. Those are important things. It's good to look forward, but I also think it's important to look back at what we can learn from that. I am sorry that this does not happen in the Minister's letter. What does this mean, for example, for how the workplace has been listened to?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u194	Two things about that. I have said many times in your Chamber over the past year, but also to the police, really standing among the people, that a lot of policemen have been required in this reorganisation process. I should be the first person to do it now. That is one of the reasons I have said: I would very much like to talk periodically, every four months, with the corps leadership and the unions about how a number of things are going. The co-determination should also be in the department at the table, I think. Moreover, participation in this process has been taken into account; I would like to emphasise this. She was critical but eventually advised positively on this. There you will see again what I said earlier: I think that we all, including the police, felt that this should be done. Then you do get that it's been too much, too fast. That is a lesson I take great pleasure in, and I repeat it over and over again. Mr. Chairman. As a conclusion to my general text, I wanted to express a few things about my pride in our police. But first, this. The Netherlands spends €119 per capita on the rule of law and on average it is €65 per capita, according to a Council of Europe Committee of Inquiry. So that is not an investigation of mine, it is an investigation of the Council of Europe on European judicial systems, efficiency and quality of justice. It contains all these research results and statistics. Another study indicates that the police budget in the Netherlands is 0.8% of GDP, the gross national product. In most Scandinavian countries, this is 0.6% for comparison. This is an investigation carried out by Eurostat, 2016. I think it is even more important to say here that our police are in a large, worldwide investigation in place of 6 of the best police organisations. That's the Wispi investigation. In this research, the Netherlands scores sixth after Singapore, Germany and a few Scandinavian countries with the figure 8.4 as an overall figure on professionalism, integrity, organisation and so on. That is all the credit of our policemen, let us be clear. I've done dozens of work visits in my first year. I am really impressed by the knowledge and skills and the involvement, the calling, of the people who do it. I think it is very good that I hear that in the Chamber of everyone today. Let us really say to each other: we have to ensure a good order, because those people, they do the work. Mr. Chairman. For a long time I have come to answer the questions; of course everyone is waiting for them. I have somewhat ranked the questions by subject. I shall begin with questions which mainly relate to what I call the functioning of the police and police functions. I open with Mrs Buitenweg's question, which, I see now, I have already answered to a large extent. That's the question if I can reflect on how it could have gotten off to such a bad start. I would just like to say this, through you, Mr President, to Mrs Buitenweg. The course that has been adjusted in the recalibratement I continue. There is broad support for this in the authorities and in the police; I would like to emphasise this. However, we are going to create more room for regional and local tailor-made work in order to create a police organisation in which people can find flexibility themselves. I say: the people themselves; that is something other than flexible short-term contracts. There was a misunderstanding about that. No, it's about people in the organization finding more flexibility. Following this, Mr Van Raak, Mr Azarkan and Mr Krol asked questions about the lower quality of service and a declining confidence. I have already said something about this in my introduction, but I would like to say out loud that the satisfaction of citizens is still very high. In 2017, it was 74.5% and in 2012 it was 68.8%. I am not going to mess you up here with all these figures and statistics, but I would like to point out that this is from a statistics in the Safety Monitor. There is also an international comparison of it. For example, in Denmark, confidence in the police during the reform process declined enormously. Kuijken makes a very explicit compliment to the police. We have a police department that invests in modern services. I already said all those things in my introduction. I dispute that the quality of the police has diminished. It is precisely the level of management that is much better than the former 26 corps. Mr Azarkan I do not see him now asking about the 230 million. There was indeed a austerity order given at the time that was in the creation of the Police Service Centre, the Pdc. That has become a great, positive quality stroke. I would like to point out that the CBS, the Central Statistical Office, in the Security Monitor, which I have just mentioned, explicitly states that the functioning of the police in the area is seen as positive by more and more citizens. The appreciation of police visibility in the neighbourhoods has increased, according to the CBS. I'm gonna go over what's going on with the neighborhood cops. Among others, Mr Krol and I believe almost everyone has asked questions about this. Mrs. Helder asks if there is room for the police. Aren't you overloading the police with priorities? In my answer I have 'yes', but of course it means 'no'. We're not gonna overload the police with priorities. During the review in 2015, there was more room for the police organisation as well as for the authorities. An example of this is that the Agenda on Security has come up with a very limited number of national priorities. You can remember that I explained this in my budget debate. At the time, there was the thought that there might have to be a priority. I said if the Chamber did that, I'd have to remove one too. That is precisely from the point of view of Mrs Helder that you should not be full of priorities. Mr Bishop asked if there was room for strengthening local detectives, so that local priorities were also addressed. Yes. The base teams also have a BOLO, just for the common crime scenes. I have indicated both in the development agenda area-related police services and in the agenda search that it is precisely the connection of local teams with detection that needs to be strengthened. I really see that as a task, as a task for the time to come. As I said, there is a very limited number of phenomena prioritized. That gives that Security Agenda more room for local priorities in the search. Then the neighborhood cops. Actually, it's good to start at Van Dam's point. For Mr Van Dam asks whether community policing is still the concept from which work is being carried out. Yeah, I want to tell him bluntly, community policing is still really the basis. But in a contemporary way. In doing so, it is essential that the police have a link with the district and is proactively present. However, the way in which it should develop with society. This modern neighbourhood in the district is also served by the realization of pop-up police stations, district tables and a police bus or tent at various locations. In addition, I have often mentioned the example of the very mobile district agent, who works with the help of an iPhone or iPad. That neighborhood cop never left in the meantime. The district agents do have an ever better time and place independence. There is now a base team that comes into the neighborhood in more ways than just through those neighborhood agents, which does not detract from the fact that this cabinet has said that we should bet on extra police and therefore on extra district agents. I'm going to say a little more about this, so maybe it's good to finish that first and say a few things about that point. First, Mr. Krol. Will there be more power for mayors in the deployment of district agents? The authority already has a role to play in the deployment of district agents and prioritization at local level. Let me make it clear that I do not want to say anything about this. That's what's invested there. Then, of course, Mr Bishop's point. He and I have had an exchange of views on that before. Mr Bishop, like Mrs Den Boer, asks why the commitments on district agents, which are 1 in 5,000, have not been met. That commitment about one district agent out of 5,000 inhabitants has been fulfilled. Before the end of 2017, it was the task of the Chief of Staff, as also stated in the 2017 budget, to achieve an occupation of the district agent function of 97%. It is therefore more than 80% of what has just been referred to. There is, of course, a point on which Mr Bishop and I have often had an interesting semantic parliamentary-historical discussion. That system is per municipality and not per unit. I am really quoting from the explanatory statement of Amendment No 2. 49 of Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Raak and Mr Kuik at the time: "The division of the district agents who are assigned to a regional unit on the basis of their population is carried out in the regional policy plan by the mayors concerned and the chief prosecutor." That is what was adopted by your Chamber by a large majority at the time. That system will do. I would not think it wise to break the system of the law unilaterally on that point, because then I am going to use the room for mayors of the city to appeal to Mr Bisschop from the, otherwise understandable, concern he has for the region and for the smaller municipalities of the region to make decisions only smaller. Yesterday I was in such a municipality and that is the municipality of Moerdijk, which of course includes a very large area. I think that mayor is so satisfied because he himself has the authority for that large area. Mr. Chairman. Let me just make the last two points about this. Mr Bishop asked whether I agree with Cyrille Fijnaut, Professor Fijnaut, that basic teams can be classified as municipal. I don't agree with him. I don't agree with the idea of each municipality having its own basic team, because then you're going to make them too small. That's what I saw and discussed yesterday. During the establishment of the national police, robust base teams of approximately 60 to 200 fte were chosen. At another AO we talked about the important point that this managerial should be easy to handle, so to speak. By the way, I would like to point out that not every municipality had its own team at the time of the regional police and not at the National Police Corps. An ideal size of base teams, as I say, it doesn't exist. I think these were my comments, when I see it that way, about the neighborhood cop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u195	Thank you. Mr Van Dam, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u196	I hear the minister say he's behind the district cop. I kind of think of the neighborhood cop as the personification of those community-oriented cops. The point is, those base teams are running on their gums. We all know that. This emergency aid sometimes comes into being with difficulty, but it does not bear much weight. How can the Minister arrange for that to work out better? In my opinion, this can only be done if assistance comes from other places in the Corps to help those base teams through the winter. Help Jan Splinter through the winter, in the base teams. How's the Minister gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u197	Of course, I will come back to some points later, but I am sure that I will be a little ahead of time on how that order works, including the division of powers and the power to use it. Again, that of course lies primarily with local authority. I have already made an advance on the questions put by Mrs Kuiken and Mrs Buitenweg about the position of mayors in the LOVP in April, May: we have so much extra money and we can use that and that way. At some point, the mayors have said that they prefer to decide that together with the corps leadership itself. I respected that. That's what happened. How that goes in the coming years, we must be on top of each other in the LOVP, but the regions themselves, and within the regions the municipal authorities, will eventually have to indicate what they have done. The system works in this way, and I shall come back to it again and say that that is where the responsibility lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u198	I know how the regulation works, but what we are talking about here is a system discussion, the nature of how our police function. That's not about District Agent Piet or Jan in Rosmalen or Vught. No, it's about how the police work district-oriented. The responsibility to guarantee this lies with you too. You say: it is out of my hands, it is in the regions. I think the Minister has more responsibility than that, and I think he should say that he is doing it now. I would like to have a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u199	I'm talking about things like prioritizing. We've talked about it before. You would like me to say: listen, it must be true that local agents are being deployed there and there. I don't think the system goes that far. What I'm saying is this. We must not forget that these base teams also have a role to play today in which they get much more into those neighbourhoods. We must also realise that the mayor, at his own level, is accountable to the city council for how he has implemented security policy. In addition, of course, it remains so, because every year resources are made available that ultimately the authorities must be able to justify, even to me, that the police are set up responsibly. And yes, you can say to me next year: we have found that, for example, a few large cities have not used it responsibly, because they have prioritised it entirely on that and that. But look at, for example, the problem of counterterrorism. This is a problem that our police have been getting exponentially involved in the last ten years. You can't say to each other in advance here "Well, Minister, you just have to guarantee that next year the mayor will only use district agents" or something. That will have to weigh the triangle itself. What is so good in this system is that it appears to be weighed. I was just referring to the CBS Security Monitor. In any case, it shows that the public believes that the police have only increased in visibility. I think we should watch that with each other, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u200	Mr. Van Dam. No, isn't it? I shall now give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u201	I am glad that the Minister at least makes it clear that he too attaches great importance to the district agent, but I simply have a sincere question to the Minister. I hear from small municipalities, especially from the mayors and the municipal councils there: "We have nothing to say about it. We're not getting to it. It doesn't apply to us." What's the answer to those smaller municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u202	On my work visits I visited a number of these smaller municipalities with a large, wide area of work and also with a smaller area of work. These small municipalities also have two representatives in the LOVP. I was gonna tell you down the street, but I'm gonna tell you right now. I would like to put the problem of the smaller municipalities on the agenda of the LOVP in the sense that I say: "Listen, I belong to the Chamber of Concerns on that point. I would like to hear from you how some of these things will now be completed if you go home to your region on the moped or whatever." That seems to me to be a very good item on the agenda, but I should like to say quite frankly: perhaps I visited the wrong municipalities in your view, because yesterday I noticed very clearly during a regional visit that people get good support, for example in Moerdijk from Rotterdam, just to say a few words. I take the point, but I am more positive about that, even if we look again at the fact that those 1 to 5,000 standards are reached that 97%.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u203	For the people watching: LOVP is the National Consultation Police and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u204	National Security and Police Consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u205	Security and police; you're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u206	The LOPV is the National Organisation of Police Volunteers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u207	I'm gonna see who was on the Interrupt Microphone earlier. Mrs. Den Boer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u208	While we have arrived at the LOVP, I would like to ask the Minister what he thinks of one of the recommendations of the Kuijken Committee, namely to put it under the chairmanship of an independent chairman and to ensure that the Chief Constable is in a stand-alone position. This would contribute to a better distinction between political responsibility and the professional development of the police under dual authority. How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u209	I wrote about this in June in the policy response. I have decided not to take up this point because, with all the honour and virtue of the committee, I did not think that was very thoughtful. An independent president would be given his own position and would again be given a role in the direction. I trust you as a Chamber in critical hands, so I think you can look as a Chamber to see if I do so in a balanced way as President and not too much of my own interests. I don't need to get a price for that right now, but from the strength distribution that came from the cabinet, I just said, "Good. You know what? As mayors, you may work with the chief of police, who sits there, to divide it in your own way." They've come out well. One might think of that point of order, although in practice suggestions are already being made from the mayors. Mr Van Dam has also raised some concerns in the sense of: can we keep an eye on that LOVP? I think it would be better for you to have me there as chairman, as is also the case here, but who does act independently, than to appoint an independent chairman again. Long answer, but it's an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u210	I'd like to comment on the district agents. There are signs that they do not achieve that 80% presence in their work area. Some talk about Rotterdammisation and all that kind of thing. Can I conclude from the Minister's words that he guarantees that the district agent carries out 80% of his duties in the district to which he is attached as the police expert of that district?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u211	That is the starting point. The district agent must be 80% of his time working in the neighborhood, with the work on the neighborhood. So it should not be removed, too, I have read the article in the newspaper for work that does not concern the neighborhood at all. In that case, something's not going well. I do not know if this is the place to go into this, but in the case of, for example, undermining crime, that can be complicated. If someone is involved in undermining crime, it can, to a large extent, concern the neighbourhood. So we need to look very closely at how we test that exactly. But to Mr Bishop I say that 80% is the norm.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u212	As a follow-up, if the Minister finds that there are doubts, what action is he taking? Is he ahead of the goat and he says: hey, wait a minute, I want clarity and clarity about this, because this is not in accordance with our decor?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u213	Indeed, you have to check whether the 80% actually relates to work in the area in question. We do not want a district agent to be pulled away to completely different work, which has no connection with his neighborhood at all. I would add, even as a heartbeat for the neighbourhood, that I have just said that the basic teams are much more active and present in the neighbourhoods. This is not something I am saying; it is simply apparent from the safety monitor's statistics. Mr Van Raak wondered whether all the commitments made during the reorganisation had been met, in particular the commitment on the culture of the police summit and the commitment on the needs of the agents. As far as I am concerned, the needs of the citizens and the police are paramount; let me say that out loud. In recent years, there has been a lot of investment in the well-being of employees. Safe and healthy work has been a theme since the recalibrate. This is also a theme in the discussions I have with the unions every four months, because I have been criticized by the unions, on behalf of the staff, for the fact that some of the agreements made did not come to fruition. I agree with the evaluation committee's conclusion on the local embedding. Mr Van Raak also had a question about this. With the recalibrate, local customization and making more room for the units we are now working to make the first strokes at that point. Finally, yesterday in Question Time, I said a few things about this. I can say that the Chief Constable is working really hard on a culture of transparency, accountability and inclusiveness. I believe that Mrs Den Boer has drawn attention to this today. At this point we still have to succeed, as Kuijken also says, but we are working very hard on this. Mrs. Laan-Geselschap asked a question about the flex teams. They are decorated; they are experimented with. Except they're not present in every unit yet. In any case, the flex teams are the subject of discussion in the strategic discussion, in which the chief of police, the police unions and the central works council discuss the future of the organisation as such. There will be an analysis in the second quarter of 2019. I propose that we wait and discuss it further in one of our regular meetings. Then I come to the important subject of the boas. For all present and viewers at home: these are the extraordinary investigators. There are six categories of boas. This also explains that sometimes different categories of boas can be encountered in life. Mr Krol asked me to confirm that no police duties are being transferred to private services. Yeah, that's the answer. There is a natural cooperation with private companies in surveillance and other matters, such as storage and transportation of illegal fireworks, but core tasks of enforcement, detection and intelligence are still in police hands. By the way, I am talking to the WRR about the implementation of Mrs Den Boer's motion on this police function in a broad sense. I'll get back to you on that. Do I think it is desirable that the Special Investigation Officer should take over more and more tasks from the police? That current boa system works well in the base. Nor are police tasks taken over, but cooperation is currently taking place in a wide range of areas. On the basis of its own tasks and powers, boas have an important additional task in monitoring and enforcement in public space. Mr President, forgive me, because it was not really Mrs Buitenweg's question, but I cannot help saying something about the checks on prostitution. Recently, last week, I talked to the mayors and the Chief Constable about that at the LOVP. It is an administrative element, and it is not strange that the municipal boas check for hygiene, the presence of small children and that sort of thing. But if there are signs of human trafficking, or even the appearance of it, then the police will come along. That's the beginning of tracking. I will certainly save you the debate on this, but the point was that we also held up the fact that the police were no longer involved in all situations, because it would then have the capacity to use more people in these trafficking cases. I wanted to answer for that, because it's not right that the police shouldn't be involved in this anymore. Only, it is very clearly focused on those situations where there are indications of trafficking in human beings. That is what is really being put into practice in these situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u214	That raises a question from Mrs Buitenweg. Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u215	Because it is also a bit foggy: we as police do not leave tasks to the boas but we work very well together. The police decide what they will do and then the rest of the tasks will be on the boas, because of course there must be human force in Rotterdam or anywhere else, in order to be able to control prostitution. Do the mayors see it that the police simply carry out their duties and don't pass things on to the boas?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u216	Shifting duties to the boas is not the case with prostitution, I believe. That is why I went on to do so, because that was the last thing we said to each other in the LOVP. Some mayors seem to have the impression that the police don't want to do that anymore. The Chief Constable himself corrected that. He also indicated how that would be done and explained that this would result in the release of some more capacity. In my first sentence, I said that this is an administrative competence in itself. So it makes sense that you're primarily gonna put that extraordinary detective on it. But I can ask the mayors again in the LOVP if they haven't let themselves be overwhelmed by the chief of police or me and if they're really satisfied with this. But it is now also really focused on tackling that trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u217	One of the findings of the Kuijken Commission is that the sneak-up of a new local police layer must be prevented and that these boas are there, but that the police must be in charge of monitoring public space and the connection between the different forms of security care. What is the Minister's view on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u218	I sent you a letter on 6 December. Maybe it's good to say something about that after all. I can actually be very clear about that. I fully agree with the recommendation of the Kuijk Committee that we should not get a new municipal police force and that we should really keep these two separate. I can also agree with the note the police have made and which is with my letter. The police say that the criterion of viability is the criterion and that we must stick to it. But the police also say: maybe we should see if you can define the range of that. You shouldn't suddenly introduce a new criterion; that makes life complicated. You shouldn't move towards the violence monopoly. In the LOVP, which we have also talked about here, there was also understanding of this with a number of mayors. They said: then we, as mayors, also have a very different kind of responsibility; then we suddenly get to have weapons-bearing people among us again, let me put it simply, and yet you are moving towards a municipal police force again, with all the training requirements, testing requirements and what is more. That vision is contained in the letter of 6 December. I hope it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u219	Mrs Den Boer has another supplementary question, but I would suggest that the debate on the letter be held at another time. I do not think that is what this debate is for. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u220	Of course, Mr President, but I also asked the Minister in my speech just now to include this aspect of the boas in the implementation of my motion and the mandate given to the WRR. In addition, I really want to take the observation that it is a huge annoyance for many people in the Netherlands that there is a huge proliferation and differentiation in the performance of those boas. I can actually hear the Minister say that he is also sensitive to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u221	Those six categories of boas include social security inspectors and everything. I don't mean that wrong, but there are really different tasks in that. I would certainly like to take that with me, but Mrs Den Boer asked me how I look at that myself. I might have a very legal, constitutional idea about that. I really think you should keep that apart. If you don't mind, I'd like to say one more thing. I was in the outskirts a few weeks ago, where I talked to a ranger-boa for a long time, I'll say. He spoke very wise words. He said, "Don't you want to take us somewhere halfway? That doesn't help us, because then the criminals start thinking: oh, that's some kind of police. That's not good for our safety. And the audience is going to think, "Oh, it's some kind of cop." That's gonna be a lot more of us." As a legislative and executive power, therefore, we really need to maintain discipline and a clear dividing line. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to a large number of questions about the order and the budget issues. I would like to prepare you mentally for the fact that I have done a lot of work on the question "can the Minister ensure that the budget becomes part of JenV's budget?" I have no less than four arguments and even a fifth point, which I would like to give to Mr Van Dam for your consideration. So I do not agree; let us be clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u222	But you're gonna try to do that compact?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u223	I'm gonna do the best I can. I understand that the word 'compact' does not lead to short discussions in this Parliament, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u224	But you're gonna do your best.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u225	I'm gonna do my best. Mr. Chairman. The police have their own legal entity with its own budget. That is the first point. That means that if you're going to include the police budget in my budget, JenV's, the police will still be part of the department, like some kind of agency. When the Police Act was introduced, it was deliberately decided not to do so and to say: listen, I am responsible for the police, but it is not mine; it is in the service of authority. We have a decentralised unitary state. The Chief Constable is in charge, not me and not the Chamber. However, the Chief Constable in that administration is bound on certain points. I'll be accountable to your Chamber for that, too. That's a lex specialist excuse for the Latin cuisine compared to the general budget law of the Chamber, and a lex specialis goes for that. Mr. Chairman. Moreover, I would like to consider that, if you were to do this, the Chamber would lose sight of information that it is now receiving. I have a beautiful matrix; I won't fully recite it here. But a departmental budget includes, for example, the representation of the policy. It includes reinforcement, renewal and modernisation. That will then be the instrument for achieving that policy. In a police budget, on the other hand, you see an impact of that policy in all kinds of operational capacity, both in formation and in occupation and in intended goals. So that's much more detailed. I think we should consider whether you should give the Chamber more information on certain points. I'll get to that in a minute. Another point is, and that is a kind of Drostebox-like argument: it is the evaluation itself that says that we should not want this. In fact, the committee says: look at the balance between central and decentralised. Then you just have to put it even further away. I would like to quote just one thing about the recommendations: 'Following these recommendations, the Chief Constable must be able to operate in a manner appropriate to the management of an independent legal entity and force all parties to become more stable in their roles'. Mr President, two other things have to be done quickly. You, as a Chamber, now have a substantial influence on the police budget, because I do not fix it until after the departmental budget has been adopted. And adopted motions, for which there is, of course, a majority, I am indeed implementing. At least, I'm used to doing that so far. You get a lot of information, more than other parts of my department. I think so! The prosecution and the judiciary also receive a lump sum amount, but this is not broken down into x million for prosecutors or y million for legal staff and so on. I would also like to point out that even the Defence Annual Report contains less detailed information than the police annual report. But, of course, you should not then object to my colleague in the defense. The fourth and final argument is that there is a great risk that authority and management drift away from each other. The concept budget is discussed in the LOVP with authority, and that is just the guarantee of authority and management together. If we're gonna do it differently, we're gonna take it apart. That's gonna upset the balance. For the sake of time, I am not going to give all the examples of how disastrous that could end. I had some questions to answer about the budget. Mrs Helder and Mrs Kuik asked: can you clarify the limits of the powers of the Chief Constable and the Minister in terms of the budget? And how much room for the Chief Constable? I have already indicated that I will make a proposal to amend the Police Act and the Financial Management Decision in this way. Mrs Helder also asked: what should be changed? The fact that the Chief Constable is given the initiative to draw up the police's annual documents, such as the budget and the management plan, naturally within the legal rules and the frameworks I have given for this purpose. I remain fully responsible for the management of the police and continue to be accountable in Parliament, but I also retain my duty to draw up the annual reports, such as that management plan and that budget. In that context, Mrs Helder asked me how I intend to keep an eye on the fact that letting go of the double lock does not mean that there are too few people. The Police Act provides for me to deal with the division of strength between the parts of the police, while the mayor, the chief of police and the local chief of police deal with the division of strength within the regional unit. Then there is a bandwidth, which means that the chief of police can decide in accordance with the mayor and the chief officer not to realize part of the operational strength of a regional unit to be realized. Mrs. Helder knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u226	Is it wise to finish the heading of the budget first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u227	I still have a lot of questions. I want to do that fine. I have about eight more questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u228	Shall we make your interruption at the end of these eight questions, Mr. Van Dam?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u229	I have one more question about one detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u230	All right, a short question from Mr Van Dam. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u231	However, I do need the Minister to say a little more about what the new proposals, if we follow the Kuijken Committee, make precisely the division of roles between the Minister and the Chief Constable in terms of management. There are people who say, no, management goes to the chief of police. I hear the Minister say: it remains my responsibility. Is it a form of mandate that is to take place? Or is it governed by the law that you have the responsibility, the burden and the chief of police the possibilities, the lusts? How's that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u232	Mr Van Dam makes it somewhat visual. The chief of police is given the initiative to draw up the annual police documents, i.e. the budget and the management plan. That must be done within the legal rules and frameworks, but that seems logical to me. I remain responsible for the administration of the police and therefore continue to be accountable to Parliament. I therefore retain the task of establishing the annual accounts, such as the management plan and the budget. That's supposed to be the setup. Then you have a direct claim through me, too, so to speak. I think it should stay that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u233	However, I would like this to be even clearer. Is there some sort of independent attributed authority being organized in the law for the Chief Constable to do things? Or is it a form of mandate you give to the Chief Constable? What's the shape in which it's going to be cast?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u234	And that's a question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u235	I'm gonna have to think about that technically-legally. Or I'll get back to you in a minute, if I did that while I was talking...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u236	Yeah, and if you don't, it's gonna come in second.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u237	Yes. I'll do my best to get back to that soon. Then I've talked about the double lock. Mr Azarkan asked what my response was to the recommendation that the law should reduce the current linking of roles. I think that recommendation is good in itself. Among other things, it is translated into giving more space to the chief of police. I have also sent your Chamber a letter on the further implementation of supervision. Mrs Helder asked me to respond to the recommendation on the power of designation. That's an important one. The report recommends that the scope and form of the ministerial designation authority be specified. It is therefore a question of the performance of the tasks and powers of the Chief Constable mentioned in the law. I don't see any reason to change the designation power. The chief of police is entirely subordinate to the minister. The power of designation is necessary because I have to answer to your Chamber for management. This gives the opportunity to assess, depending on subjects or circumstances, whether concrete guidance is needed in terms of tasks and competences. Of course, that's a mutual or what do you call it? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council for their work. I think that we really need to do this right and not go into further detail. I have already replied to Mrs Helder on the regulation that needs to be amended. That's the decision and the Police Act itself. I have talked about the independent chairman, as have the appointment. That was Mrs Buitenweg's question about the LOVP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u238	The minister says he's already talked about the arrangement. He said in a subtle way: I could also think about the powers of the mayors in the LOVP. I assume he is now saying that he has answered that question because he has said that he is going to change that authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u239	Now Mrs Buitenweg does not fully reflect what I said. I added that, at the moment, the mayors are already making strong non-formal suggestions for the LOVP agenda. I actually took that almost from the beginning, when, of course, I came into a company with very experienced mayors and was the less experienced myself, as self-evident. So I have the feeling that this is already happening, but I certainly want to look at it, especially since we may find in a subsequent evaluation that it is good to do so. Perhaps at the moment it is also a little dependent on the person who is chairing the sitting and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u240	I wanted to say your fifth question, Mrs Buitenweg. But you're already walking back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u241	I wouldn't sacrifice it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u242	The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u243	Then Mr Krol asked, like Mrs Kuik, why I did not implement the recommendation to examine the territorial structure. I explained that in the letter. I hope I will not disappoint Mr Krol if I repeat it here again. It's always good to say that again. So we have done this very big reorganisation process and the police are still trying to fit fully into that new structure. I do not think it is appropriate to start looking at the territorial structure now. I must also say that units and base teams will be given more space. We look closely at how that works on the functioning of the police. I do not have any signals at the moment that that would not work at all by now. I'd be standing here opposite your room. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Buitenweg was concerned that the prosecution would be absent too often in the local triangles. That's not what I'm getting back, I'm telling you quite honestly. The D.A. is an involved partner in the local triangles. There is, however, an increasing degree of integrated cooperation between administration and criminal law. It's a well-known fact. This is, of course, also a priority in the context of tackling undermining crime. It is sometimes organised differently, for example with field officers covering multiple triangles or with a theme officer focused on a particular theme and placed in a triangle. At least it's a lot better than it was six years ago. The triangles also carry out smoother workover. In concrete situations that I sometimes have to deal with myself, I also really see that it is starting to work well. Mrs Van der Graaf asked a question about the mayors of the small municipalities. I think that's a fair point. I told you, I'm gonna set that up at the LOVP. I would like to point out once again that the LOVP is indeed, under Article 38d, made up of regional mayors who have to answer to the other mayors in their area. When I take up my role as minister, I think I can assume that regional mayors will do the same in their own way. There are two mayors of municipalities under 100,000. But I'm gonna settle it. Mrs Van der Graaf also asked about the performance of work by mayors of small municipalities in the local triangles. Mrs Van der Graaf pointed to the East of the Netherlands. The mayors all have sufficient tools to carry out their duties. I understand that sometimes, when you come from a smaller town, it's harder. If I get to those smaller municipalities, I'll ask: how are you doing, can you make your point? I'm just gonna put it this way. This also applies to the same chorus as before, namely that at least I am going to raise this point in the LOVP. By the way, I'm going to report back to your room about that. Mr Bishop asked how I would give the mayor's authority over the police hands and feet next to the chain of office. That's dealt with in Article 11 of the Police Act. The mayor's in charge of public order. This includes all the tasks and responsibilities and is further developed in Article 13 of the Police Act. On the basis of what I have seen so far from all sides, I believe that this has really been progressing so far. I've come to the point of surveillance. Mrs Den Boer asked a question about this. I think more transparency is a good idea, for example with the chairman of the audit committee and so on. The appointment will eventually take place by the Chief Constable. Of course it is. That is important, because there must also be good faith between them. But at least I will take the idea of greater transparency with the Chief Constable in a subsequent consultation. I would also say straight away to Mrs Den Boer and to your Chamber, but on the initiative of Mrs Den Boer, that there will indeed be another review in five years from November 2017. Then I come to the issues that did not relate to this or where at least there was a hook with the order, but perhaps a little... Those are Mrs Van den Graaf's questions about her concern for roster pressure. We discussed this in detail on 29 November in general consultation with the permanent committee on police officers. This has been an important theme in the collective agreement process. So a lot of agreements have been made about that that we are going to monitor closely with each other in the coming period. Mr Krol asked for an extension of the absence from work. I sent you a plan of action on 25 April. The common thread in this is indeed that the relationship between managers and employees needs to be really focused in order to improve the situation of absenteeism. That's what's being done. Now I'm going to repeat what's in that letter... along seven tracks. I would like to mention a few: increasing the number of company doctors, training executives to deal with this much more effectively, better guidance for police officers who have had to deal with a violent incident. And so there are a number of very concrete measures. I would just like to refer to the six-month police report of 20 November, which also deals with new developments in this area. I will do the same in the next half-year report. Then there is also the point of the relationship between reorganisation and absenteeism. I have already made it clear in all the discussions over the past year and also in several letters that the fate of the policemen is at my heart and that I am concerned that pressure has been put on them in part during this reorganisation. The Chief of Staff and I have both said that it is really a priority for us to work on that absenteeism and make improvements in relation to that very nasty post-traumatic stress disorder. Mrs. Laan-Geselschap spoke about the ProFit test. The police academy says there's really not many aspirants who fail that ProFit test. Additional training courses are also provided and tailor-made work is provided where necessary to help aspirants. Of course, demands must be made on the fitness of aspirants. At the moment, the Police Academy assures me, there is no reason to adjust that ProFit test in terms of level. Then there is Mrs Kuik's question about the diversity policy for top positions. The police are really in the process of expanding unitary lines with talents of various backgrounds. There is also work on the relationship between the number of men and the number of women. This is also high on the strategic agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u244	A question from Mrs. Laan-Geselschap. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u245	I would like to ask the Minister, on the basis of the remark, whether we can assume that it is a question of the familiar path, but I would like to hear from this Minister that it is ultimately about quality and your future, not just your background, and that it is about whether you are fit for office. We read all kinds of articles in the newspaper every week with arguments about that. I would like to hear from the Minister that at least that remains the starting point for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u246	Yeah, that's the starting point. I don't know about those articles, but that's the starting point. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Den Boer asked about the complaint handling. The police are learning from that. The defendant is confronted with the complainant. Then the defendant also gets a direct feedback on behavior. It lists the types of complaints that come in nationwide, so that the organisation also learns about them. The investigation by the police that the then inspection VenJ did in 2016 shows that these complaints are also taken seriously by the police. The police started the project Learning from complaints. Work is being carried out on improving complaint handling through the learning of complaints. It also looks at how other companies deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u247	A question from Mrs Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u248	It is very good that the Minister will return to the complaint procedure. Not insignificant, of course, for the confidence in the police, but especially for the learning capacity of the police organisation itself. Actually, a complaint is a free advice to the police, you might say. Is the Minister prepared to look at what the police are now learning from these complaints, but also to look at best practices in complaints handling abroad to make our complaint handling even more external and independent?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u249	Yeah, there's always a way to learn. I'll look into that, because you're right that whatever happens abroad can always teach you how to do even better. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Raak and Mrs Buitenweg, of course, had legitimate concerns about the solution to the shortage in the influx. We also discussed this on 29 November in general consultation with the Permanent Chambers Committee. I explained at that time that the influx of aspirants is being increased. The training capacity at the Police College will be increased. I have said to your Chamber at the beginning of this year: although the conditions of certain agreements have not yet been established, I have said that I am going to ask the Cabinet for 100 million to expand the Police Academy now. Otherwise, in two years' time, we will find that we cannot achieve this enlargement in practice. Police education is, according to current forecasts, able to process sufficient aspirants and other forms of influx. And it was also agreed in the collective agreement that we should develop a scenario together with the Police College in 2019, should it develop differently. Furthermore, the necessary capacity for flow training is provided by exploiting alternative opportunities, for example in regular education or with certificates. Finally. Mr Van Raak was gloomy about the outflow. I understand very well that he has concerns about that. The cabinet has also undertaken to provide EUR 58 million and, ultimately, EUR 91 million to cover the decline over the next three years by means of side-influx and by encouraging those who wish to do so to work longer. Furthermore, we do so by making all kinds of flowing things possible earlier. This is how we're gonna make that landing better after the outflow of a large number of pensioners. Some of you, in particular Mrs Buitenweg and Mrs Kuik, have asked about the multiannual perspective and the long-term vision. Mrs Kuik asks about the multiannual budget. The budget and the management plan will become a single document, and this will be seen next year but will also be four years ahead. Then you also get a better link between money and developments in the police. Indeed, in the management plan, for example, we also address this multi-annual perspective and ICT policy, including the policy on the maintenance and renewal of the ICT organisation. We are still discussing the order tonight, but I hope that we will be able to discuss the long term in our discussions in the coming year. Mr. Chairman. I've already talked about the 230 million-dollar cut. That is why I leave Mr Azarkan's question aside. Mr Krol asked about the possibilities of reducing the AOW age. I am not going to go into that now, because that is a general debate. However, the collective agreement agreed that there would be an option for older people to create a tailor-made set of work so that they could achieve their AOW or retirement age in a healthy way. There are also opportunities to switch to less burdensome functions. And there are still a number of schemes for older people to quit work sooner or less. Those are the RPU, the Partial Resignation Scheme, or the LFU, the Life Phase Hours. Those are really things we want to focus on, precisely to make it possible for the elderly to move forward in a really good healthy way. Mr Krol asked if it was a slightly different subject - whether cooperation between criminal intelligence services and detectives could be improved. Well, that partnership is good. Where there is a need for improvement, this is being worked on. I drew your attention to the 105 million in the undermining fund. We don't have to talk about that right now. In addition, another 10 million per year is structural. In addition, much of the 291 million in additional resources is invested in improving intelligence and mutual intelligence. Then, of course, there were the 16,000 cases. I discussed this in detail with your Chamber at the end of November. That's 4% of the total number of cases that don't get picked up. These figures are not new; I have already shown them to your Chamber in several monitors, for example in the criminal law monitor of the Central Bureau of Statistics of October. I would like to stress here that these figures have been fairly stable at that level in recent years. The compliment that Kuijken makes to the policemen is because during that very difficult period of the reorganisation, they kept the quality level the same. Mr Krol asked about the power surge weapon. I sent a letter to your room on 15 November. It says that I am positive about this at the moment, but that there are still a number of important issues ahead of us. Moreover, I do not see the power surge weapon as a payback model, and so other than business reasons will be decisive for me. Mrs Buitenweg spoke about the role of operational experts. They shall provide operational guidance, both in the base teams and in the search. The operational expert is supportive of the team chief who is ultimately responsible for the team's performance. The team chief shall be responsible for the team. But because these operational experts give guidance to the deployment, we have already discussed this before, they have a better view of the functioning of the operational police officers than the team chief. They still work within the frameworks set by the team chief; he makes the decisions. Then there is the question of whether specialists can also be used in other fields of activity for the police. Ms Laan spoke about cyber-police volunteers being deployed in cybercrime. There are already ICTs who have done police training, but it is also intended to attract police volunteers for other areas. I have one or two more questions, Mr. Chairman, but I'll hold.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u250	Yes, Mrs Buitenweg has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u251	I'm really worried about those operational experts. This also has to do with the fact that I hear other things from the Minister, including in his letters about the function of those operational experts, than from agents themselves. I wonder if this is not a function on which there is a great deal of uncertainty, which in turn causes a great deal of discontent. Because people assume that just the good cops are on the street and that they have been put in a position to function on the street as a kind of mentor or coach and that they are also part of the operational strength on the street. What's actually happening is that it's becoming more and more a layer on a desk. The Minister has often replied that tasks belong to the Bureau. They will have to do the same, but I think the original idea was that it would be really cooperative foremen and forewomen on the street. This means something for the operational commitment, but it also means something for the task they can perform. If, instead, it is going to be a little far away on a desk, then that means that people in the street have much less contact point. This again contributes to the impersonality in the organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u252	I'm gonna do something unusual. I do agree with Mrs Buitenweg that we need to continue this discussion. I would like to assure you that I will work out this point in a letter to your Chamber in order to discuss it further in the next meeting on police matters. I really think I should go to the ice very thoroughly in fact. If I say on a number of other points that something is evident from research, not from my investigations, but from independent bodies, I think I should come back to this, in a letter, and we should talk about it afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u253	I think that's a good commitment. Mrs. Buitenweg, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u254	I think it's a very nice commitment. I would like to ask the Minister another question, because it is not just about what he has in his office and what he has to do in that letter. I honestly note that I see a difference between what I hear from people and what is apparently the job description on paper. So I think there is a real problem and I would like us to address that in that letter and that we will talk about it in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u255	We understand each other very well, because it was precisely my intention to get off the paperwork and get the current stand from the police themselves and come back to the Chamber with it, because I really think it is an important point. Mr. Chairman. There are a few more questions. I was a little too positive when I said I had two more, and of course I still have that point from Mr Van Dam, which I now have an answer to. But first, the number of offices and support points. Maybe it's good to say something about that. There's gonna be 168 desks in the end. That's where the base teams have their base of operations in one place. In 16 cases there is also a second team agency. It is also foreseen that there will be 400 police support points at other locations, about 100 larger support points and about 300 smaller support points, for example in town hall or district center. I have seen examples of one and the other a number of times over the past year. Ultimo 2025 is a nationwide network of approximately 575 police locations. Now that we have adopted this new Police Act and supported that new order, we should not simplify the discussion by saying that so many police stations are closed. No, this is a new system in which I stress that in 2025 there will be about 575 police locations, apart from things like pop-up agencies that temporarily go somewhere, or circular agencies, for example at a multi-day festival or something like that. Also, the district agent still keeps a certain mobility from a location. Mr Baudet asked whether management could not be cut in order to reduce the administrative burden. The Corps shall take different measures to reduce administrative burdens. I said something about that at the beginning. I have already written to the Chamber on 16 October, in which I informed your Chamber very extensively about the administrative burden relief. I can give you all the examples, but I will confine myself to a few: the planning functions and HRM functions will be organized much closer to the teams; the leadership column will be evaluated at the moment and in the first quarter of 2019 I will have that evaluation and then we can undoubtedly discuss it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u256	If you'll just finish your answer, I'll allow you to interrupt again at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u257	From Mr Van Dam there is another question about the position of the Chief Constable. I've worked that out for a while. The proposal is to lay down in the bill that the Chief Constable will have the legal task of drawing up the annual accounts. So that is an attributed power and it is not a mandate. I continue to establish the documents, and in the annual registration, which is a designation in accordance with Article 31 of the Police Act, the Chief Constable gets frames that he has to observe when drawing up the annual statements. But I will remain fully responsible for the administration of the police and will be accountable to your Chamber. I will go on slippery ice when I compare it with civil law, but essentially that is the situation in which the management, who really does it, prepares the documents and the one above, in this case the minister, says: okay, you have drafted this, and that is what we are now establishing. And I'll answer to your chamber for that. That would be the idea of the effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u258	And with that, you're...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u259	No, I have two more important points. The final point is that of Mr Van Raak on the rule of law. I thought it'd be nice to end up with that. By the way, he received a letter from me today about KPMG, the costs and so on, and what the role of these consultants has been in the establishment of the national police. But before I get to that point, Mr Baudet had asked the question whether we could simply throw an additional 1 billion into the police force. I must say, Mr President, that I am surprised at that question. I've done a budget review here. I've been defending my budget at your office in two days' time. Mr Baudet was present on the first day, at the first term of the Chamber. He then asked 100 questions about the migration pact. He asked me zero questions about the budget, zero questions about the police. There can be an amendment to my budget, as any Member of Parliament knows. It would have been fine to debate this with each other then. I have, however, taken the trouble to revisit the Forum's electoral programme. There's that billion extra for the police nowhere mentioned. But we had that debate a month ago. I would have liked to have discussed this with you as a Chamber and explained how I feel about it. But that's a little pour les besoins de la cause, I think. Then there was another question about the Marrakesh Immigration Pact, but that is a long way from this debate. At that time there were 100 questions about which, I believe, have also been answered. I have one final question, which I think is very important, namely Mr Van Raak's question on the rule of law. I can do it now, but I can also do it as a closure after the interruptions; whatever you want, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u260	I'd say kill him. Then we'll do the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u261	Mr Van Raak says: do you agree that the state of the rule of law is in a bad state? No, not at all. In the Rule of Law Index, which deals with 113 legal systems, our rule of law remains unchanged in place number 5. I mentioned this Rule of Law Index a month ago in a letter to your Chamber. That high place is a credit to you as a Chamber and to our judicial authority; you may further judge whether the successive Cabinets also earn any bonus points on it. What matters is this. We have a separation of powers. In March this year, for the first time, I saw the Netherlands talking about the concept of 'narcostat'. At that time, I said in your Chamber in general consultation with the standing committee: I think that is a totally inappropriate term. What's a state? A state is an organised structure of a society. When you're talking about a narco state, it's the drug dealers who decide. That is not at all the case in the Netherlands. Read the book Narconomics of an Economist journalist. It describes what a narcostat looks like. I do not need to draw attention to the fact that, in the last municipal elections in Mexico, another dozen people, I believe, were shot to death. That's a world we're really far from. You can always call me to account. That is the strength of our democracy. You can do that in the terms and thoughts that everyone has about it. So we don't have a narcostat here. I'm not gonna name all those statistics again. I started today by pointing out that in the Netherlands we spend double what is spent per person on the rule of law in Europe on average per person in a country. I could mention the number one or number two position that we have in the area of legal aid in terms of expenditure, and in terms of human resources and support for, for example, sitting and standing magistrates and the like. I could point out that we are always high on lists of non-corrupted bodies in our rule of law. Let me make it quite clear: I have only been here for a year, so it has not been for me; that is the merit of our people and our institutions. So I do not agree that the state of the rule of law is in a bad state. I agree, however, that as a minister I must ensure that the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and all the others who do the good work are put in place and that they have the means and the people to do it. Mr President, I am really done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u262	Thank you. Mr Van Dam, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u263	Mr President, a small point of order. I understand your need to continue. It's gonna be really hard to respond properly when you're 16 blocks away. Anyway, thanks and congratulations for leading this debate. I have a question for the Minister. Let me say first of all that we will come back at a later date, if the amendment of the law is here in the Chamber, to his response on management. I just think it is very important that the Minister stays in charge so that we can check him for that. But I think we're gonna figure it out. My question is about closing down police stations. To be honest, I don't really need to figure out what's going on. I also fully understand that time is becoming modern. I used to have trouble with that party tent where the neighborhood cop was in, but now I've more or less identified myself with it. Ultimately, it's about the service concept. If you call the police, what do you get? You have already sent a letter on this subject, Minister, in connection with the budgetary procedure. I actually want some sort of McDonald's service from the police. So if I go there, whether it's in Groningen, Limburg or The Hague, I know what I'm entitled to. That's very localized. What's the status of the service right now with that idea? The people who come to your house, those laptops, those whole rat apartments, is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u264	For all kinds of reasons that cannot even be traced back to the prevention agreement, I would not want to see it as a McDonald's concept. However, I believe that we must ensure that the police have a fixed quality level and strive to improve that standard of quality. I agree with Mr Van Dam. I believe that, in a number of areas, such as ICT, the police should become more and more genuine as a national police force. There are certainly steps to be taken here and there. But even in the 13, 14 months I've been working on, I can see that the police are making real progress. I believe that we should continue to consult each other in the future in the standing committee on whether the police will continue to make such progress. So I agree with Mr Van Dam that we really need to move towards a quality, national, good concept at all levels. There are still improvements to be made here and there, and you can appeal to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u265	Finalizing Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u266	A standard answer is: yes, but the CBS statistics show that everything is going so well. That is also a bit the answer given by the Minister concerning the rule of law 'we are at the top of the state' and so on. My contention is that that is only valid for as long as it is valid. We have to work to keep it upstairs. We need our own standards in that. That is why I hope that in that service concept the police simply keep a close eye on the citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u267	I fully endorse that "always working on it." But I cast the impression that we in the Netherlands would have a poorly functioning rule of law or a rule of law subject to concrete rot. In doing so, you also wrong the institutions and the people who work there. This cabinet has said that we must invest a large amount of money per year in the police. That's what's being done. The cabinet has also said that we need real money on a number of other points, such as the undermining fund. In any case, we have a rule of law which, thanks to the people and institutions, is doing really well. You can appeal to me that it stays that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u268	I have received answers to almost all of my questions. At least I missed the answer to one. As 50PLUS, we have always fought hard to reward brave cops with a medal. That is what is happening in many other countries. The motion for a resolution on this matter has been adopted. I've asked the Minister what's going on with that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u269	Well, it's a police medal, not a ministerial medal. I'm not going about how this is put into practice. I may be able to say something about it in the second term, but I do not think I should be able to say how this is happening. The corps must be able to tell itself who should be eligible for this medal, now or in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u270	That sounds a little more positive, I have heard you say that in the past. If the police department wants to get on with it, then at least you're not gonna stand up to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u271	I'm not working against the corps leadership on matters that see directly on the execution of a chamberal motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u272	Thank you. Then Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u273	Yes. Since the Minister is taking the liberty of misinterpreting my name, I will refer to him as the Grapper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u274	No, you're naming him as the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u275	Yeah, it's called Grapper's House. I respond to his point of view, his remark, that we did indeed not discuss this point in the debate on the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Security, the police situation. It had to be. We had to use all our speaking time to question the Marrakech immigration pact, because, among other things, your party blocked us from having a separate debate on it here in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u276	Mr Baudet, would you like to speak through the President to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u277	Yes, that has been very reprehensible behavior of Minister Grapperhuis' party. So I think it is absolutely inappropriate for him to speak about this in this tone, of: yes, you did not bring it in. He and his party have blocked us from discussing this in plenary for a very long time. They did what they could to keep that off the agenda and that is why we used our speaking time to do so. Second point. The government is free and the Chamber is free to consider amendments to the budget throughout the year. New insights can be taken into account. Reports we're discussing now provide new insights into the police situation. He can't just say: I won't go into that, because you didn't bring it in a month ago. No, we're adding $1 billion for the police. Get on that. Why do you want to do that or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u278	Thank you. You deal with your questions, and the Minister deals with the answers. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u279	We have had a large number of general discussions over the past year, I have lost count, and I would have liked to have had an exchange of views with the Group of the Forum for Democracy, but there was no discussion. Then there is a budget, each with its speaking time, and in the first and even in the second term, where Mr Baudet did not appear and neither did Mr Hiddema, you can always make points. If that does not happen, I think that at some point you should not be surprised that the budget is adopted as it is adopted. We could have voted against it, of course. That didn't happen. Look, we're way ahead now. I hear today that Mr Baudet would like to spend 1 billion for the police, but then I need to know from Mr Baudet why, where that should be spent, and what would then be a structural addition to the 290 million per year for the police, which has been thoroughly substantiated and which has been discussed very well with the whole Chamber in this budget. Nor have I heard any response to the occasional means put at the disposal of the police. It's quite mustard after the meal, but I can't even have a substantive discussion about it either. Look, if Mr Van Raak criticises me on certain points, it happens once in a while that Mr Van Raak does. That sometimes goes into a fierce debate and on a number of points I say to him or to Mr Van Nispen of the opposition: yes, well, you may have a point there. But then I have to be able to have a substantive debate and all I have to say here is that there should be 1 billion more for the police, which is not a good paternity. Moreover, I must say that it was certainly not a bad idea to misproclaim Mr Baudet's name, so I apologize for that. But I do think that when we talk about these important matters, such as the budget a month ago, we should do so in substance. Those 100 questions about the migration pact, I say in all honesty that they could also have been summarised in a piece of 30. Moreover, Mr Baudet I was there to say that they were actually all rhetorical questions. You should have asked a number of substantive questions about my budget. Ask Mrs Helder, who is from the opposition, or others present here. I am going to debate this and I am taking over things when I think: that is actually a sensible point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u280	The point is clear. In fact, I would like to propose that the debate on the migration pact should not take place here. We've really talked about that extensively. So I ask Mr Baudet and I also ask the Minister not to go into that further. I would like to give Mr Baudet the opportunity for his next interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u281	Mr. Grapperhuis comes up with so many inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u282	The Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u283	It is difficult to contradict them all at once, but first of all: we did vote against the Justice and Security budget, partly because we fundamentally disagree with the allocation of resources. But does the Minister recognise that once the budget has been adopted, it will be possible to amend the budget during the financial year? Just a very simple yes/no question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u284	Yes, but do you know what it is? The point I made is: when we start a budget discussion, you just have to participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u285	We were in!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u286	Mr Baudet has appeared there. He asked 100 questions that could easily have been summarized in a much shorter question so that he had enough time left for other subjects, such as the police. Well, I think, if we have now started things, I can say that I think it is simply too late to start now and not at all in terms of content at all! The Commission's decision to initiate the
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u287	That's the point you made. Thank you. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u288	I just wanted to explain one thing about the questions, the rhetoric. They were just substantive, very serious questions, which also received a huge number of pages of answers and then, in the substantive debate, many relevant points were also made. Just one more point. So the Minister acknowledges that even after a budget has been adopted, you can change things if the Chamber or the Government comes to other ideas on the basis of documents that become known and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u289	Yeah, I told you. This can be done, for example, with the Spring Note. I believe that Mr Baudet is ignoring the essence of my reaction. I talked about my budget here for two days a month ago, and he didn't bother to bring up one point of discussion about the police. For example, if he had spent 59 minutes on that one subject, which I will not mention anymore, he would have left a minute for the police. But that didn't happen. Yeah, well, it's gonna have to stop, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u290	If this were so...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u291	No, no, no. I would like to speak as chairman for a moment. I see Mrs Buitenweg on a point of order, but I would also like to propose that we close this debate. This is about...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u292	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u293	Mr Baudet, you do not have the floor. I would like to say a few words and then a point of order always goes for an interruption. I want to stop this debate. As far as I am concerned, it may be about the content of the debate and that is the evaluation of the Police Act 2012. We are not going to continue part of the debate on the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u294	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u295	Mrs Buitenweg, on a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u296	Yes. The point of order is that I do not think the Minister should review a Member of Parliament. I mean, I really want to do that as a colleague, but the Minister shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u297	Okay, thank you. It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u298	In addition to Mrs Buitenweg's wise words, it would be ridiculous if every minister from now on, referring to an earlier debate in which a particular point would not have been raised, were to say 'no, you have not said that before, so now we are not going to deal with it'? If that becomes the procedure here, then we as a Chamber are completely finished. It is really very strange what Mr Grapperhuis is doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u299	The Minister of Security and Justice. You've made your point. I note that we are at the end of this interruption at the end of this first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u300	You will not allow me to respond to the point of order. I find that very strange. I did not give a review of Mr Baudet at all. I've explained why I wasn't on that 100 million euros, or what was it? That's not a review at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u301	That point has been addressed to you several times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u302	Yeah, that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u303	I would therefore like to conclude the first period of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u304	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u305	This means that we have come to the end of the first term of office. I would suggest that we move on to the second deadline, assuming that you all need it. If an order proposal is made, it's part of the microphone. But I would also suggest, given the time, the fact that the clock is ticking, that we proceed fairly quickly. I see an order proposal from Mr Van Dam. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u306	Would five minutes fit in that "quite fast"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u307	I'll take a look around for a reaction. I see a nod in agreement. Mr. Krol, okay? Would you like a five-minute suspension?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u308	Yes. 50PLUS moment!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u309	Hahaha. Five minutes tops. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u310	The next item is the second term of the debate on the evaluation of the Police Act. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Helder. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u311	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering all the questions. I've heard it before: what lessons do we draw from this? As a tolerating party at the time, I said about the start of the national police in my first term: too fast and too much. Would I do it again? Oh, yeah. Would I do it like this again? Certainly not. But that was up to another cabinet, because it had to be at the time of substantial cuts. Those were such cuts that it was a 9% target. That meant 0.5 billion, which, of course, could not go off the staff but off the equipment. That was almost a third of the budget. Then you really have a problem, combined with the changes in society that followed quickly. I have highlighted the police stations in various general consultations there. That is what I remain talking to the Minister about, because unlike what Mr Van Dam says, my group is not only concerned with the concept of service, but also with the fact that it is a point where the officers do the briefings and change before and after duty, where they can leave a suspect and so on. Anyway, I'm sure I'm going to talk to the Minister about that further in a subsequent general discussion. I am not entirely satisfied with the Minister's response to the recommendation on the designation power, because the recommendation was: specify the scope and form of the ministerial designation power, as currently contained in Article 31 of the Police Act. It's crucial to give the Chief Constable more space. Now it's shape-free, so how can you control it as a room? It could even be oral. And, as stated in Article 31 of the Police Act, the power of designation extends to all the tasks and powers of the Chief Constable. If a minister is going to make a lot of use of that, then of course that space is, to put it bluntly, a wash nose. I would like the Minister to go into this a little bit more, because that is what the explanatory statement on the article of the law says; you can't get a lawyer out of it. It states: as a result of this power, that power of designation, the Chief Constable is subordinate to the Minister. I understand that, but the space has to be provided. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u312	Thank you. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Van Dam for his second term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u313	Mr. Chairman. We have had an interesting debate as far as I am concerned. I've learned a few things again, for example, that you can also use a power surge weapon against diseases. I have very specific associations, but we will have to talk about this later. I have also learned that if I complain to D66, it is understood as a free advice there. So my night's good. I've got two motions. I am very pleased that the first motion was widely supported and signed by the parliamentary groups: by Mr Van Dam, Mr Den Boer, Mr Laan-Geselschap, Mr Bishop, Mr Helder, Mr Baudet, Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Krol and Mr Van Raak. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a legal provision that at least one district agent is employed per 5,000 inhabitants and that the reference framework for Area Police includes the standard that district agents operate 80% of their time in or for their neighbourhood;]] [[noting that the concept of area-based police care is currently under serious pressure due to scaling-up of police premises, but also due to current capacity problems;]] [[Whereas district agents often do not attend to their actual activities by using them for emergency aid and other activities outside their own remit;]] [[Whereas area-based police care is an essential feature of the Dutch police and that the district agent is one of the most pregnant examples of this;]] [[Calls on the Government to promote, as from 1 January 2019, that district agents can actually carry on their actual activities in or for the neighbourhood 80% of their time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Dam, Den Boer, Laan-Geselschap, Bishop, Helder, Baudet, Van der Graaf, Krol and Van Raak.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-839]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u314	Then I'll go to my second motion. It has only been signed by myself, because I understand very well that everyone has to think very carefully about whether or not he is going to go along with it. That motion is about what we as a Chamber have to say about the administration that is in the hands of the Minister. The motion is actually an investigative motion. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that democratic control of police management is in the hands of the House of Representatives;]] [[noting that the budget of the police is not part of the budget law of the Ministry of Justice and Security, but is annexed to the House of Representatives;]] [[whereas the House of Representatives cannot effectively exercise the right of amendment and can, at best, initiate amendments to the police budget either by general rejection of the budget or by means of motions;]] [[noting that the General Court has repeatedly stated that the administrative competence of the Minister and its financial impact do not coincide with that of the police;]] [[calls on the Government to seek advice from the Council of State on how to strengthen democratic supervision in particular the budgetary right of the House of Representatives to the use of funds for the police, including the need to do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Dam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-840]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u315	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the very comprehensive answer to all the questions. The absenteeism is still playing through my head. How nice it would be if that could be reduced even further. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas recruiting and training police officers takes a great deal of time and money;]] [[Whereas, on average, 7% of the 60,000 agents are not available due to absenteeism;]] [[Whereas the shortage of staff can also be reduced by combating absenteeism, and that the more experienced agents are also operational;]] [[Whereas the high absenteeism can lead to increased absenteeism due to increasing pressure on the corps, creating a vicious circle;]] [[calls on the Government to make the reduction of absenteeism among agents a priority and to remove its causes and inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-841]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u316	I hear Mr Krol say that reducing absenteeism among agents is a priority. What then should be changed about what is already being done?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u317	I understand that there has been an interim report showing that absenteeism is barely falling. I would very much like to see an investigation into what that is. The absenteeism is very clearly higher than in several other professions, while you can also see that these police officers are as terrible an eagle as possible to do their job as well as possible. I would very much welcome any attempt to reduce absenteeism. I am not competent to say which things that should be, but how wonderful that would be, because that could also significantly reduce the shortage in the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u318	Finalizing, Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u319	Yeah, rounding it up. Mr Krol asked for this to be given priority. Then I'm afraid something else is going to die. There's my fear. So I don't know what I'm gonna do with the motion yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u320	I understand the comment. First of all, I had "highest" priority. For that reason, I have already deleted that word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u321	That was the end of your input. Thank you. I call Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u322	Mr. Chairman. We can say what we want, but the national police will bring people together. Policemen, prosecutors, judges and lawyers have united because they are incredibly concerned about the concrete rot in the rule of law. The minister says there are no problems with the rule of law; agents, prosecutors, judges and lawyers say so. Perhaps that is also a bit the problem of the national police in recent years: the reality of the agents versus the reality here in the House of Representatives. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[expresses the wish of a parliamentary inquiry into the establishment of the national police,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Raak and Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-842]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u323	Could Mr Van Dam perhaps speak a little more about what is a parliamentary inquiry in his view? Is that a survey? Or do we have a round table on a committee once? What is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u324	We have various parliamentary means at our disposal. These are individual rights, including the right to ask questions. We also have collective rights. That could be a parliamentary survey, our most serious parliamentary tool. Another means is parliamentary interrogation. It is related to a parliamentary survey, but in a very short term, in which we can hear people under oath. We also have the ordinary parliamentary means of parliamentary investigation. That is a normal, regular means of this Chamber that we can use if we choose to do so in a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u325	In conclusion, Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u326	Rounding up. However, I would like to have a little more insight into that. So what are we gonna do? How long will it take? Is that gonna take years? I don't have that experience, you might. I would like to know exactly what you have in mind, and I would like to advise my group to vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u327	Then I would advise Mr Van Dam to look closely at the Rules of Procedure and the parliamentary means we have. In a parliamentary inquiry, the Chamber is going to investigate an issue which it feels should be investigated and which often involves the role of the Chamber. A parliamentary inquiry is an investigation of the Chamber. That's an investigation that the Chamber won't let you do. It's gonna do itself. I think it's high time we did. I think it would be very good if this Chamber were to investigate the creation of the national police, the interests involved, the role of the Chamber, the role of the cabinet and the role of the police summit, because many people outside this Chamber, who are working every day in the security chain, speak of a crisis, of concrete rot, of the rule of law. That is something that we in the House of Representatives should be attracted to ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u328	Thank you. Mr. Van Dam, interruptions actually go in two in this period. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u329	I note that you yourself do not know exactly what you want to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u330	Look, this is weird to me. That is the same as I am going to ask Parliamentary questions and Mr Van Dam is going to ask what Parliamentary questions are. No, it's just a parliamentary tool. A parliamentary inquiry is one of our parliamentary means. I am not going to ask Mr Van Dam every time he starts asking questions about Parliament, what are Parliament's questions. I think Mr Van Dam will say: look for this in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u331	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u332	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u333	Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u334	Thank you, Madam President. A lot of topics have been reviewed this evening. Let me begin by thanking you for a number of commitments, such as that we are going to talk more about these oe's. I think that's important. The Minister is also going to rethink the mayor's ability to do so, and hopefully he will report back to us on this. But I still have concerns. The problems are, of course, very big. We are all talking about a kind of structural adjustment here, but in the meantime, of course, we are talking about the enormous workload that everyone has to deal with, which we could all see in that famous play Raw and which you say: that is very much felt. People really fall over, they have to work after shift and often don't have time to wake up. Then I wonder: what else did we contribute to this tonight? Anyway, maybe that's a little much to ask, but I'm gonna be okay with it. Is this it now? Was this really enough to bring a change of course forward, so that these people can move on? I also have the point of the boas. I have the feeling that the Minister is a little too light about that, that he thinks: well, it's all side by side and it doesn't bite each other. I am afraid that in a few years' time we will see the emergence of a municipal police force that we would not have wanted to create, precisely because of the problem of information sharing. So I really want us to develop a multi-annual plan and at least think about how to deal with the police and those boas. Madam President. I have a motion for a resolution, but first of all I would like to say that I do not think that one question I asked has been answered sufficiently. That question was about the East of the Netherlands. Something has been said about it, but whether that unit is really too big, I haven't heard the Minister about it. The concern I have is that the small municipalities, the small mayors, are not sufficiently heard. My colleague, Mr Van der Graaf, also has a motion that I have co-signed, but I would like to understand, because there are 79 municipalities in that one unit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u335	Your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u336	Then I have a motion. It's about the budget. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in previous years major cuts and investments have interspersed, which has not helped the stable construction of the national police;]] [[Whereas it is desirable to place greater emphasis on the multiannual framework;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Chief Constable, to present the multiannual general, operational and strategic objectives within the framework of the multiannual plan;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Buitenweg and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-843]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u337	What I intend to do with this is actually to focus a little more on multiannual planning in the hope that we will give a more stable basis to the national police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u338	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Den Boer. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u339	Mr. Chairman. We have been looking forward to this debate for a long time. It was about a report that was sort of collecting dust. Critical notes have been cracked, but it is now time to move the steps forward, put the position of the police organisation firmly on track and create peace and space for the police. I welcome the Minister's commitment to re-evaluate the system in five years' time, in accordance with the recommendation of the Kuijken Committee. I would very much like to ask the Minister if he can give further information to the Chamber on how he intends to implement this commitment, on the systematic, the scope and form of this evaluation. This means that as a chamber we can also keep a finger on the wrist. I also have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Audit Board has both internal and external members;]] [[Whereas the 2012 Police Law Evaluation Committee recommends that a robust system of external surveillance be established;]] [[Whereas the motion adopted by Mr Den Boer on police supervision calls for optimum transparency and independence with regard to external police supervision;]] [[calls on the Government to proceed to a transparent and external recruitment procedure of the Chair and the external members of the Audit Board,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the position of regional mayor is accompanied by a solid information position and short lines to the Ministry of Justice and Security;]] [[Whereas the remaining mayors may be lagging behind in regional units due to their lack of information and the possibility of timely and relevant input;]] [[calls on the Government, together with mayors and regional mayors, to ensure that all mayors have equivalent information so that they can answer to their municipal councils and to raise this widely in authority,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Boer and Mr Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-844]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Den Boer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-845]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u340	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Having heard the debate, I would first of all like to thank the Minister for his reply, but also for the support he has provided here somewhere in the centre of the building until late in the evening. We talked about a major trial tonight. That hasn't been completed yet, but we're going to build with peace and trust. We trust that the minister and also the corps leadership will take care of the widespread concerns about individual members of the corps who are under pressure in the coming years and that they will, with warm but firm hands, ensure that more people can participate in the process. We have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the police have a broad remit with increasing attention to combating (heavy) crime;]] [[Whereas special investigators (boas) have a clear added value in the public domain and an important function in the neighbourhoods;]] [[believes that boas should be given the power to enforce in several areas and not only in one domain, including the power to act against traffic offences;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to train boas in order to enforce them in several areas and how to improve cooperation with the police, including through better data exchange,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Laan-Selschap. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-846]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u341	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Bishop. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u342	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions. On certain points we must remain in conversation, is my firm feeling. But we will gladly do so. I shall also table two motions for resolutions. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there should be more room within the national police for local priorities and for individual choices at the base of the police organisation;]] [[considers that it is necessary to ensure that more room is made for local police choices and priorities, particularly in the rural areas;]] [[calls on the Government to report to the Court by summer 2020 at the latest what concrete improvements have been made,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-847]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u343	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that the police should be strengthened at local level within the national police;]] [[calls on the Government to take concrete steps as soon as possible to ensure that:]] [[the district agents available to each municipality can actually do their work on behalf of their own neighborhood;]] [[there is a link and coordination between district agents and the rest of the (local) organisation, including available detectives;]] [[local (neighborhood) agents have a clear point of contact for reporting (possible) crime they encounter during their work and there is also real scope to deal with these problems, in coordination with the detectives;]] [[local authorities and municipal councils have become more involved in defining local priorities that serve as a basis for national security policy;]] [[the mayors' control over the deployment of agents in their own municipalities has been increased;]] [[and to notify the Court of Auditors of this for the 2020 budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-848]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u344	Mr. Chairman. I realize that the last motion in particular is a kind of collective motion, but there are all points in it to strengthen national police from the local concept. Hence: a little gathered together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u345	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u346	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. I thank the Minister for answering all the questions. The Minister has addressed a number of points. I'm gonna unpack a few more for which I've had a lot of attention. Among other things, it's about the size of the base teams. I have drawn attention to the plea to give team chiefs more space and to give them the power to shape the basic team as they see fit, for example to cut it up in order to create more proximity. At present, they still experience many bureaucratic obstacles. I'm asking the Minister if he's prepared to take another look at that. Mr. Chairman. It is important that district agents are actually able to spend enough time in their own neighbourhood to be visible there. That is why I have also co-signed Mr Van Dam's motion to work on this. Mr. Chairman. The administration of the police organisation has been run nationwide for a number of years, but the authority is still local, with the mayor and the prosecutor. During the introduction of the Police Act, a great deal of attention has been paid from the Chamber to the local embedding of the national police. The same applies to the Christian Union. In the first term, I pointed out that mayors in the smaller municipalities, other than the regional mayors, do not have all the information they need to perform their role properly in dealing with local security problems, while they do have the authority. I heard the minister right. He takes these problems seriously and is going to address them in the National Security and Police Consultation. I am grateful to him for that, and I hope that will lead to improvement. When the Police Act was introduced, a temporary action programme was also launched to strengthen the positions of local authority and, for example, the municipal councils. In the light of experience, we can now see that the local embedding can really be a little better and more attention needed to do so would also be desirable. I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that mayors of smaller municipalities experience that their information position in the new police system has deteriorated while a mayor is responsible for security in the municipality;]] [[Considering that almost half of the mayors in the evaluation report indicated that local priorities are at the expense of working on national priorities and that mayors are becoming more vulnerable because they are able to use the police to a limited extent;]] [[Whereas a strong role of the mayor is essential to make appropriate choices and to prioritise local security policy;]] [[calls on the Government to strengthen, within the framework of the current police system, the information position of mayors of smaller municipalities, thereby increasing their influence on the deployment of local police capacity;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the mayors, to follow up on the Local Control Action Programme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van der Graaf, Laan-Geselschap, Bishop, Buitenweg, Krol, Van Raak and Van Dam.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-849]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u347	Mr President, if I may, I would like to conclude with a few comments...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u348	You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u349	I thought I had a minute left in the first term and I could take that to the second term, but that will be my inexperience.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u350	Unfortunately. Your closing sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u351	My closing sentence, Chairman. We've talked a lot, and there's been a lot of changes. The Christian Union considers it important that we now create peace and space for the organisation to grow. I would like to wish the minister, the corps leadership and all the parties involved, such as the mayors and the prosecutors, very much success and wisdom in making the organisation grow and stabilise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u352	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet for his second term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u353	Madam President. In the first term of this debate, the Forum for Democracy highlighted the huge police shortages and the fact that huge rates of crime are not being resolved, the willingness to report among the population is falling dramatically and bureaucracy continues to increase. And Minister Greppelhuis' response to our comments is truly complete...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u354	Mr. Baudet, you're talking about the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u355	Yeah, that's the one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u356	Justice and Security, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u357	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u358	May I ask you to put that forward in this way, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u359	Yeah, I mean him. The way in which he responded to our comments was simply completely unsatisfactory. He refers to an earlier debate "then you didn't bring these points in' and doesn't go into the substance at all. It's very disappointing that it has to be like this. He's also hiding behind false statistics and international reports that would reveal everything, while we're just talking about the situation in the Netherlands and you just have to walk out to see it. Like a few weeks ago when the police demonstrated here: we were there; I didn't see the minister there. The things these people come up with, the everyday problems they encounter, are not addressed at all. So we have two motions to file. The first one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a competent police force is essential for maintaining public order and security in our country;]] [[noting that, at present, the police do not have sufficient resources to operate at full power;]] [[noting that the workload is far too high, that declarations remain low, that district offices are closed and that there are far too few new agents being trained;]] [[calls on the government to make the full organisation of the police as a top priority and to release at least EUR 1 billion extra in the coming year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-850]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u360	Beautiful, thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas police officers should be primarily used to fight crime and maintain public order;]] [[noting that police officers currently have to deal with red tape for far too much of their valuable time;]] [[noting that the introduction of the national police force should have reduced bureaucracy, but that in practice far too little has been achieved;]] [[Whereas the Minister, as the final responsible for the proper functioning of the police, is currently failing to resolve the problems of bureaucracy;]] [[calls on the Government to demonstrate and significantly reduce bureaucracy now and to notify the Court of Justice of this before 1 July 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-851]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u361	It is the first time that we really have the opportunity to debate this with Mr Baudet, because he is not very often here. The bureaucracy is an interesting point. It's not entirely new. I was wondering if you know what's already going on in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u362	First of all, it's nice that you're talking about the presence. We've been looking into it recently. Compared to all other MPs, the Forum for Democracy is in a very high position in the amount of participation in plenary debates. I am not ready for the amount of debates you have had, but I would be very surprised if there were more than I have done in the past year, Mrs Buitenweg. So when it comes to the presence of a much larger fraction, it is still gradually clear what the maps really are. Then the bureaucracy. Of course we see part of it, but we don't see part of it either. That's exactly the problem with the M.O. I'm trying to set up in the Chamber. There might be another report coming up. There may be another investigation and so on, but in the end results must come from the government, from the minister. In my view, this checkability is far too often lacking in politics here. We hide behind reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u363	Thank you. Finalizing, Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u364	It is striking that, as soon as Mr Baudet talks about the presence in debates, he only refers to the plenary. Most of the real work is, of course, done in general consultation. This is a moment. Some debates take place in plenary, but by far the majority of the time we are in general discussions. Mr Van Dam has produced an entire own-initiative paper, including on administrative burdens. I didn't entirely agree with that, but we talked about that. We talked about a committee. He's working really hard on this, too. We talked about the Marine Corps doing something about this. This is a very wide-ranging subject. I am not satisfied with that either, but I am surprised that you come here, postulate something and pretend that you are going to enlighten us all for the first time, while we are working hard on this. You may have better proposals. I'd be happy to talk to you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u365	It seems to me that there is an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u366	I think it would be so fair that you would give some credits for what you're already doing. What you are doing at the moment is putting something in place as if you were the only one concerned with it. You are not looking at all the work that is being done and on which you may be able to build.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u367	I can't really do it other than...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u368	The President will give you the floor. Thank you. I call Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u369	Thank you, Madam President. I can only agree entirely with Mrs Buitenweg. When I look at what goes wrong in the Lower House and how many things could and should be better arranged in the Netherlands, we would prefer to be present in the Lower House at all places at the same time. But there's a lot going wrong. Take the massive immigration that is not being tackled. Take the ever-increasing burden on people in the Netherlands who have gone under Rutte from 35% to almost 40%. Take the crime that's not being handled properly. Take the European Union, which is gaining more and more power. Take the way in which education does not improve structurally. Take care of the bureaucracy. I can mention so many points that we all oppose and where we all come up with better proposals. So, yes, if we only had this one problem in the Netherlands, then we could have spent all our time on it, but we need to focus on so many abuses at the same time...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u370	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u371	So until we have a group that is at least as large as that of GroenLinks, we will have to do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u372	Thank you. That raises another question for Mr Van Dam. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u373	Would Mr Baudet be prepared to support my proposals in dealing with bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u374	Well, mostly of course, but part of it needs to come from the minister. That is the point we want to make. Look, part of the proposal is fine, but you're gonna want a checkout moment eventually. So I would like to put the question back to Mr Van Dam. Is he prepared to support our motion that we want to see concrete results before 1 July?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u375	We're not supposed to be asking each other questions. Mr. Van Dam, concluding your interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u376	No, I will certainly not support that motion, because I am already working on plans at an advanced stage. I warmly invite Mr Baudet, and I would really appreciate it if he would look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u377	Good. Thank you. Mr. Baudet, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u378	Yeah, but I still have a few words to say. I don't think this is about whose plan it is. Mr Van Dam says: no, I will not support it, because I have my own little plan. I don't think one should rule out the other. A constructive attitude should be: one and the other perhaps as well. So I do not see why Mr Van Dam's plans should stand in the way of our hard deadline, namely before 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u379	Thank you. You had come to the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u380	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u381	This means that we have come to the end of the second term of office. The Minister indicated that he could immediately answer the questions and give an opinion on the various motions tabled. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u382	Mr. Chairman. I also have a number of questions to answer. I'll pick that up as soon as possible in a manageable order for your room. First of all, I would like to start with Mrs Den Boer, who asks me to inform the Chamber about the design of the next evaluation. Yes, I will do that in time for the summer of 2020. Mrs Helder asked me to be more specific about this power of direction. I must honestly say that I have not been able to convince Mrs Helder in a word. So I would like to assure her that I will try that again in writing. I will send a letter when submitting the draft amendment to the Police Act in which I will address this point. That is what I am saying, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u383	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-13.u384	Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Krol had a question about the medals I had not quite come back to. I must admit, through you, that I have failed to do so. In the six-month report of 16 November, I described the state of implementation of the motion. It is currently examining how the existing regime can be interpreted and whether it needs to be adapted. This is in line with the existing wish for that Medal of Honor in various variants. I will inform your Chamber of the exact details and the way in which it has been taken up by the next six months at the latest. I fully understand Mr Krol's point that in the meantime we should not fail those who deserve it. So they may even have to be honored with retroactive effect. In the meantime, I may have a point to answer in response to questions here and there, but I would first like to deal with the motions in order. The first motion in part No. 839 belonged to Mr Van Dam to encourage district agents to carry out 80% of their work in the district. That is a motion which I leave to the House's discretion. This is in line with the policy of myself and the Chief Constable. We must, of course, ensure that these kinds of targets remain possible on a local basis. Then there is Mr Van Dam's second motion for a resolution. 840 to seek advice from the Council of State. I want to be very clear about that. On the basis of the evaluation, I do not see a need for such an opinion.
