ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal Amendment of the Higher Education Act and scientific research related to the introduction of a basis for the reduction of legal tuition fees for groups of students, i.e. reduced legal tuition fees. I would like to welcome the Minister of Education, Culture and Science to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u3	Thank you, Mr President. It's nice to be here defending my first bill in this Chamber. I am also very pleased that this can be done before the recess, because today, if it is right, new students who start their studies in college after the summer or at a university will be told definitively that they will receive a discount of €1,000 on their tuition fees. That objective was included in the coalition agreement. I would also like to thank Members here, as well as all those involved in the chain, for their willingness to cooperate in a very rapid process of handling this bill. It's my first bill here, a bill I filed myself. It is not often that a bill can be dealt with within nine months from the beginning to the end. I would also like to thank your Chamber for its willingness to cooperate in this process. All necessary technical adjustments at DUO, Studielink and the settings are ready. So if you could agree to this bill tonight, all signals will also be green. To Mrs Nooren, who had a question about this, I say that this reduction also has an effect, because we have already announced to students that there was a chance that the tuition fee would be reduced, of course always with the disclaimer that Parliament still had to accept the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u4	Mrs. Nooren, you can't wait until later? You need to be really quick right now? Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u5	I'd like to say a few words about that disclaimer. If you look at the site of government, it seems to me that you have already said in your introduction "if this Chamber approves it," not that there would be a debate here. On the site of the government you have to look very carefully to see that there is another First Chamber that is also about a bill. I would like to encourage the Minister, through the President, to deal with this more carefully next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u6	We'll be focused on that. Of course, you can't do something like that until it's accepted by both chambers. The legislative proposal itself contains only the basis for the reduced legal tuition fee. The conditions and definitions will ultimately be governed by the general measure of governance. That general measure of governance is ready. Should your Chamber agree to the bill tonight, the general measure of governance will be published at the same time as this bill. The explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal indicates quite precisely what will be covered in that general measure of governance. I say to Mr Ganzevort, who asked questions about this general measure of governance, in particular an explanation of the legal details such as the conditions. These are two measures: one generic for all freshmen and one specific for teacher training. I have listened carefully to all your arguments. I say here in all honesty: of course other measures could have been devised to further improve the accessibility of higher education. I also say here that accessibility is more than just finance. That is why I will also come forward with a policy letter on accessibility before the budget debate in the House of Representatives, in which we will see, for example, how we can further promote accessibility and equality of opportunity in higher education. For example, we can do this by taking a critical look at Mr Ganzevoort's suggestion, even though he made that suggestion about the meaning of the binding study opinion in that context. What does decentralised selection mean in that context? So accessibility is more than just financial accessibility. Mrs Nooren and Mr Ganzevoort, of course, were right to have opted for further reductions in the supplementary grant. Did I say "reduction"? Increase, of course, I mean. In 2015, the maximum additional grant was increased by over €100 per month. Now the political choice has been made for a generic reduction in tuition fees. There is, of course, always a weighting between income-dependent measures and generic measures. And on that basis, in order to arrive at a generic measure, the parties in the coalition agreement were able to agree. Mr Ganzevoort rightly said that GroenLinks had already devised this measure for his election programme. Of course, another political choice could have been made, but it has become this choice. Of course, this measure is not based on thick stacks of investigations. I admit that to Mr Ganzevoort. Of course it is. We do not see at the moment a very big problem with the accessibility of higher education, but it is of course the case that the tuition fee is the first big bill that you see as an upcoming student. And it really matters whether there is €2,000 or €1,000 on it. That is a considerable difference. It doesn't matter if you're gonna make your choice. Mrs Bikker pointed out: can it matter whether you opt for a more difficult study or a slightly easier study? If it's just a little cheaper that first year, €1,000 isn't "just a little cheaper": that's a lot cheaper than maybe you're going to look at that choice a little bit more in terms of content. Then maybe you're just gonna take a step more than that. That is what I wanted to say in the explanatory statement: then perhaps a more qualitative choice will be made. I say this to Mr Ganzevoort. Do I have all the scientific justifications for that? No, we don't. But I can just imagine that happens and I think a lot of people can imagine that. We have also seen, for example, when introducing the MBO card for students, that they really prefer the institution, by opting for a different MBO institution than the one that is nearest to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u7	In order to understand it a little better, the following. I taste a little tension when it comes to what exactly "qualitative accessibility" means. I have read in the papers so far that it is mainly about the choice of whether or not to study. I now hear that it is mainly about which training courses are chosen, whether or not the more difficult ones and so on. But maybe I don't hear it all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u8	No, we meant this. The qualitative choice is actually about two things. It may be about the choice of content for the study. That's what we meant by quality. The point is that we really let the student choose the place where he can come to his own best. If the financial balance then becomes somewhat smaller, by lowering the financial threshold, you may feel a little more freedom to really choose content. That is a consideration that has played a role. At the same time, I think that I can play a role in this too. I am thinking, for example, of MBOs who want to move on to higher vocational education. If then the first account you get is not €2,000 but €1,000, then you might just go over that threshold a little easier. So both points have played a role in my consideration, and I also think in the consideration of the parties that have concluded the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u9	I still don't get it. I'm sorry. Let me put it this way: it can play a role in studying or not, I imagine. There's research that says $1,000 isn't enough for that difference, but okay, I can imagine. But I can't imagine that it matters to study well then you choose. Except when you say: it doesn't matter if you opt for small-scale intensive education. That is a lot more expensive. But otherwise I can't imagine it, because all training courses are getting €1,000 cheaper, so what difference does it make which one you choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u10	Suppose, a student comes from vwo, is quite good at economics and mathematics, and has to make a choice between a study economy or a study econometrics. Econometrics does find this student an exciting choice, because he is not quite sure if he is going to make it; in economics he may know that a bit more definitely. He also has to deal with a binding study opinion. I told you, we should take a look at that, too. I can just imagine, once again, that I do not have a hard scientific basis; you are absolutely right in saying that the student will say: because that first year will be cheaper, I dare to make that more exciting choice a little faster. I can imagine that is a consideration, and I hope that is a consideration. I hope, for example, that for students who opt for a complex beta study, Mrs Bikker asked for a role to play. Let's hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u11	It can all play along. We do not know that, because we have not examined that, but we do need to consider the effectiveness and effectiveness of this bill. Of course, this is not just about the €1,000 or €2,000 that a student pays, because he also lost a year at that time. I think that can even be wrong, because then someone will only do a slightly harder study, but then they won't get their points and propedeuse; then they will lose their first year. Then I think, oops, it might be a mistake. So I still don't understand that "qualitative good" compared to all the other things you can do, such as education, tasting, walking along, talking to someone who did that study, counseling. There are all kinds of other ways you can do that. Then you do a study that's complicated, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u12	Even if we start monitoring it, we will never be able to demonstrate one-on-one that it is a particular measure leading to it. It is always a package of measures. The same applies to the reduction of tuition fees for teacher training. You know that we are working on a whole programme to combat the shortage of teachers. We all hope that all these measures will help to ensure that more young people opt for teacher training and that more people want to become teachers, that more people want to stand in front of the classroom. Will we ever be able to determine whether any of these measures have led to an effect in isolation? I don't think so, because it's always a package. As we do with all the Ministry's policies, we follow the effects in the policy monitor and see what effects we see. Can we do that in isolation? No, you can never do that, because it is always a complete package of educational measures that interact with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u13	Let me get this straight. We are sitting here to see whether the legislative proposal proposed meets the requirements of quality and efficiency in relation to all the other measures. In my view, the observation is that it is a legislative proposal that entails burdens which may be mainly for people who have to take a supplementary scholarship. We will come back to that later because the rate of study is still rising next year. Then I'm thinking, couldn't we have spent the 175 million smarter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u14	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the issue of the effectiveness and effectiveness of the measure. Mrs Nooren had questions about this in her first term and Mr Ganzevoort also had questions about it. Our mission is always to look at the objective, effectiveness and efficiency of a measure. Within the scope of my mandate from the coalition agreement, there was little room for policy alternatives. I thought I could extend the extra year discount for the pabo's to all teacher training courses, because I thought it wise not only to look at the pabo's and the academic pabo's, but to look really wide. Of course, there was little room for real change in the coalition agreement. In addition, the best execution alternative has been sought. We have therefore paid a great deal of attention to the various implementation scenarios. In that sense, it is therefore the best alternative within my political remit. The Advisory Committee on Regulatory Pressure has also confirmed this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u15	Mr President, I must object to this. The Minister now refers twice to the coalition agreement, which does not allow her to do anything else. But the Minister speaks here under the responsibility of the government. I referred to the writing guide, which states that a reference to the coalition agreement is not enough. This is an arrangement from the government itself, in which it is said that this explanation must be such that it is based on content and not merely refers to the coalition agreement. So I can't settle for this. I would really like to see a substantive choice as to why this government agreement, which this minister supports, chooses to do so. It is not merely implementing it, but it supports it, so it can also be called upon to do so. It must then also be able to explain in substance why this choice was made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u16	The measure is also included in the GroenLinks election programme. We have also tried, in the explanatory statement, not only to refer to the coalition agreement, because that would have been faint, I understand that, but also to indicate what effect it has now had. For teacher training, the underlying objective is of course very clear: to ensure that more young people, as well as other students, opt for teacher training. I've just tried to explain that to you. You can follow me in that reasoning or not, but I have said that this qualitative choice, if the threshold is lowered, will create more room for a substantive consideration. Especially for those who switch from MBO to higher education, that threshold is also lower. If you ask me what the bottomline of my reasoning is, I say simply lower the threshold for students to opt for higher education, because I say again that acceptancegiro, that first account of not €2,000 but €1,000, does matter whether you pass that threshold or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u17	Indeed, at the moment, I only object to a reference to the coalition agreement as an adequate argument for choosing this measure and not for another. We have another discussion on the content, but we would like to stop referring to the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u18	I referred to the coalition agreement in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, but you cannot tell me that I am saying here, in this Chamber, that it is a measure from the coalition agreement that does not offer me much alternative. But there is indeed a substantive thought behind that, just as probably GroenLinks had that thought when she wrote it down in her election programme. It does matter anyway; if it gets cheaper, it's easier to cross that threshold. I will deal with a number of themes. The objective of the proposal, the monitoring of the proposal, how we are going to measure the effects and how we are going to deal with compensation. A number of you asked questions about that. I will try to answer as much as possible in the order of speakers, then perhaps it will be easy for you to follow. We have just discussed the point made by Mr Ganzevoort on efficiency, efficiency and motivation in his first term. Mr Van Kesteren also asked whether the development of the recovery of those notifications after the study advance justifies this measure. Following the introduction of the study advance, the number of notifications has recovered. Yes, that justifies this measure, because, once again, we are trying to trick more students into choosing teacher training. And because we are also trying to get people to make a qualitative choice and, for example, to facilitate the transition from MBO to higher education for them. Mr Van Kesteren also asked what this means for international students. Let me say this about it, because I have just had a full debate in the House of Representatives on the letter of internationalisation of higher education. Perhaps different from your judgment, I believe that internationalisation in Dutch higher education has added value. It's good for this country. We also need international students. Higher education and science try to practice isolation and try to keep foreign students out of the door, I don't believe in that. I think that would be a serious shortcoming for us as a country. Many Dutch students also benefit from studying in an international environment, "an international classroom" as they call it, wherever they are confronted with other cultures. The question is whether the reduction in tuition fees will ensure that more foreign students opt for the Netherlands. Many foreign students who choose the Netherlands are German students. They do not pay tuition fees at all in their own country, so their choice is not so much determined by the amount of tuition fees in the Netherlands but simply by the good quality of our higher education, so they often choose to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u19	We are talking about the accessibility of teacher training in particular, also with the aim of getting more people in education, for the classroom. Can you therefore make a difference between foreign students who come here to study as consumers and graduate and leave because the price of studying is attractive and students who actually find their diploma here empty and contribute to our society? Don't you think there's a difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u20	We hope that as many international students as possible stay in the Netherlands. But no, I can't make a distinction in front, in paying the tuition fees, and ask about the student's intention at the end. Students often don't know that at all. We cannot and do not want to distinguish by nationality either. That would be discrimination in the area of nationality. Students from outside the EEA pay the institution tuition fee, but the legal tuition fee is the same for all European students. In view of our desire to have more mobility of students in Europe, this seems to me to be a good thing, and I would also like to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u21	If I listen carefully to the Minister, she makes no difference between the Dutch student and the foreign student. Then I wonder whether the mastery of Dutch is not a very important skill in teacher training and pabos, especially for Dutch students. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u22	Well, I don't think there are a lot of students from outside the Netherlands coming to study at the pabo, precisely because that is often a Dutch language education. I don't know any English-speaking pabo in the Netherlands. You might even know yourself, so this seems a bit of a hypothetical issue to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u23	Finally, Mr. Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u24	Then let me specify it at higher education. It is important that Dutch students... On the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, I believe that the Dutch legislation should be a guiding principle and that you should also find a balance, so that this measure will not be widely used by foreign students. Do you agree with me or do you say "no, that's not the option for me"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u25	Again, internationalisation in Dutch higher education has a huge added value for our country. We really are an international knowledge-based economy. For example, if you look at ASML, they are very happy that many international students are coming to this country, also to meet labour market needs in the Eindhoven region. There are many more examples. In the debate with the House of Representatives, I said that Dutch students should always be able to go to their own country if they want to study. I would like to repeat that here. We have said in the internationalisation letter that we are going to look at a number of measures, so that we can at least guarantee that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u26	I do not think that Mr Van Kesteren should do anything about the debate on the internationalisation of education. It is precisely the specific proposal that is before us. This is because this Minister says: I want to promote access to education. She wants to make sure that in some way we can make up for what the terrible loan system is doing to our students. But now we have to note that this measure is also going to benefit a group on which we are now, through the President, asking: is this exactly the group for which we need to improve access to education?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u27	Let me say two things about your question. The introduction of the study advance has not led to a reduction in accessibility; this is also seen in the numbers. We see that those numbers in the influx have just recovered. Any measure you take with regard to Dutch tuition also applies, of course, to European students, because we do not discriminate on the basis of nationality within the European Union. We think it's important that these student flows are there. A number of people in general benefit from this, but this is a general measure to improve the accessibility of our higher education even better than it already was. You can also think of other measures for this, but I think it is not bad for Dutch higher education and for our country. On the contrary, it has added value when international students come here to study. Again, the tuition fees often do not play such a big role in the consideration. We see that many German students, for example, but also students from other countries where they do not pay tuition fees at all, come to study in the Netherlands, precisely because the quality of education here is so good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u28	I note that the Minister is once again answering a question I have not asked. I was just saying that I do not want to discuss the internationalisation of education. I'd like to do that with you, but not today. It's about us handing out our taxpayers' money to a large group of foreign students. What basis does the Minister have for saying that it is a good thing that these foreign students too benefit from the halving of tuition fees? What is the argument for that? Why does she think she has to do it this way? Why did it not somehow exclude this group from reducing tuition fees?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u29	Why didn't we exclude this group? Because we don't discriminate on nationality. "Don't discriminate" seems to me to be a rather important starting point in the law. Again, it's not a gift. The fact that these international students come here has added value for Dutch higher education and for the Dutch knowledge economy; that is what I have been trying to argue. So I see no reason to treat them differently. We need a lot of these international students very much. They actually add something to our higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u30	Mrs Gerkens, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u31	I have to conclude that discrimination is already taking place, because students from outside the European Union do pay more tuition fees. Students from countries within the European Union do not do that, because they are European agreements. I have to conclude, therefore, that the Minister here says that more students from abroad are moving to the Netherlands is one of the reasons why she is halving the tuition fees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u32	I didn't say that. Now you're turning my reasoning around. I say that internationalisation has added value, but we are not taking this measure to draw it here. I have tried to explain to you that it does not matter to many of these students, precisely because they do not pay tuition fees in their own country and choose to study in the Netherlands for other reasons. Indeed, on the basis of the European agreements, we cannot make that distinction. Mr. Chairman. Some of you, Mrs Nooren and Mr Ganzevoort among others, have asked: why is there no choice for those groups that may need more, say those who are eligible for the supplementary grant? Why wasn't it chosen to increase the supplementary grant? I told you, that's always a weighting. At that time, the supplementary grant was increased. It has now been chosen to apply a generic measure. Especially for teacher training, it aims at a reduction for everyone. This time there is no intention to pursue income policy with tuition fees. Mrs Nooren asked about the difference in the amount of tuition fees, given the income of the parents, but then you end up in a huge introduction complexity. The introduction burden would really be too great. Moreover, the load-bearing regime has not changed, which is the most important thing, and it will not change if the ten-year interest rate is to be applied in the near future. Of every euro you earn above the minimum wage, you only have to pay up to four cents. There's no effect there. Moreover, it is also true that Mrs Bikker quite rightly said that these two measures have nothing to do with each other. They also vary over time. The ten-year interest rate is intended to ensure the sustainability of public finances. The fact that this link is not there is also demonstrated by the fact that this measure was included in the electoral programme of the Christian Union, but that the reduction in tuition fees was not included. In that sense, they were really not linked to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u33	Macro-budgetary is right, but the individual student has to do with both. They'll get to each other. But for the sake of clarity, to me the question of the supplementary stock exchange and so on was not driven by income policy. It was driven by the accessibility problem, from the question of what the groups are that can be proven to have accessibility problems. That's not all students. Those are the specific students you could do something with. I think that is very close to what the CDA and the Christian Union would like. Then you could even allow the supplementary grant to last longer, so that it also applies to middle incomes, for example. In other words, you could take steps with that, but I was very strongly concerned not with income policy, but with accessibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u34	I agree with that. I'm not convinced it's going to be very complicated. If you make a link between those who are entitled to a supplementary grant and those who have problems with accessibility or only those MBO students who pass through and come from low-income families on average, then there is a measure with little administrative burden. That would be good for the accessibility of those groups which have problems with the flow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u35	I do not dispute that other measures were conceivable. Only the differentiation of parents in tuition fees is administratively an extremely complex measure. I argued that and no more than that. Then there is Mr Bruijn's question on the financial side of tuition fees. How does that contribute to getting the student in the right place? At the beginning of my speech, I explained that we do not have a hard scientific basis for this, but that everyone can very well imagine that, if the financial threshold gets lower, you will have more room to consider which study suits you best. That doesn't have to be the study you're most sure you're gonna get. Mr Bruijn also mentioned the concerns surrounding the influx of VMBO and MBO technology. Would it not be better to do something about this, also in view of the shortage of technically trained people? That is a very understandable question, but it is not the case that we are not doing anything about it. There is a whole package of measures and 100 million extra structuralally available to make that technical vmbo really attractive, in order to maintain that. In the MBO, technical training is given a high funding factor. Through top technology in operation we ensure that good and continuous learning lines are developed between vmbo technology and mbo. We have the Technics Pact, we have the Stronger Vocational Education Programme and we have the Regional Investment Fund MBO, which ensures that innovation takes place in the MBO and also improves cooperation with, for example, the declining business community. So we have a whole package of measures for that too. Mr Bruijn asked another question. Because of the labour market perspective, for example, we reduce tuition fees for teachers. Can we not therefore reason a contrario and increase tuition fees for studies with a poor labour market perspective? I'm not in favour of that. The basis in the bill and therefore also for the AMvB is reduction and not increase. With a generic increase or an increase for certain studies, you're really going to limit accessibility. Then you also limit students' freedom of choice and you would also touch on equal opportunities. You can opt for a study with a perhaps worse labour market perspective, although with many studies you can go to many places. Then you really make the odds less equal, while we want more equality of opportunity. We have other tools to reduce entry into studies and training with a poor labour market perspective and also to reduce the supply of training places for this purpose. This can be done, for example, through the macro-efficiency policy and through agreements on the numerus fixus. An increase in tuition does not seem appropriate to me. In that context, Mrs Nooren asked whether an increase in tuition fees could not contribute to more motivated students. I don't know. It could be, but it certainly does not contribute to equal opportunities and that would be a very important reason for me not to. Mrs Nooren also asked what the zero situation is on the basis of which we can assess the effectiveness of the legislative proposal. The zero situation is actually described in the annual monitor policy measures, some of you have also referred to this in the debate that we present every year. Every year there are figures on how students are falling out, with switching students. The monitor also contains qualitative descriptions of the flow of students and MBO students and all kinds of aspects that they consider when determining whether they are going to study and, if so, for which studies they choose. Based on that monitor, we can see if anything changes in those considerations, in those choices. Can we attribute that one-on-one to this bill? No, that's probably never gonna work, like we can never attribute the effects one-on-one to a particular measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u36	I don't have the monitor completely sharp, but are there any questions in there about matters that you're so anxious to help? You want the amount of tuition fees to improve the quality of the choice. You write in the explanatory statement about the intentions of the choice and that kind of thing. If the government wants it to be so important, is it possible to include that in the monitor? Otherwise we will be here in three years' time and the first observation is that we cannot separate the measures in this legislative proposal, but the second observation will then be that we have not measured the things that we intensified in the legislative proposal. Is it possible to pay attention in that monitor to the things that the government considers important?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u37	That's what the monitor's doing now. The monitor not only summarises quantitative data on flow and choices, but also qualitative data. I will check it just as closely, just to be sure, but these qualitative data are also explicitly included in the monitor, precisely because the flow of ideas, the choice-intensities and the qualitative considerations of students are so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u38	The government's intention with the bill is that people choose the study they find challenging and not the study that's just a little easier. It would be interesting to see if that actually helped. Maybe people choose a study that's very interesting, but they quit after six months. Then you may wonder if you've taken the right measure. You're investigating the intention, as the explanatory statement states. In the end, you want to influence the actual behavior and not just the intention to. Would the Minister like to see if there is anything to be said about actual behaviour in the evaluation? That's what it's all about in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u39	The actual behavior is measured. We measure how many people choose which study each year. However, it is never possible to determine whether that choice is one-on-one related to this bill. Whatever I'm gonna measure, it's never gonna figure it out. We can figure out what we can see in those choices. We can see very well whether more people choose the pabo or teacher training. We can just measure that. Of course, we will never know whether that was related to this measure alone or whether there was a whole different package of weighting behind it. We can see the effects in the monitor. Mrs Nooren also asked about the halving in teacher training. Her question was why it was only two years. Why no longer or why not a reward after study or a reward if one is already at work? The reduction in tuition fees is really meant to help students across the threshold, to ensure that they opt for an education for the beautiful course of teacher or teacher. They can get a diploma to get into education with it. We've been thinking about an incentive once the diploma has been obtained. However, this incentive does not apply to the students who have opted for the pabo or teacher training and have done their stinking best to get it, but have not been able to reach the diploma in the end. That has been a consideration. There has been another consideration. We do know from scientific research that a short-term discount is always more attractive than a four or five-year discount. I don't know how it works with you, but behavioral impact studies are the basis for that. On a discount that you can take with you tomorrow, you will base your choice rather than on a discount that you may only get in a number of years. You want to keep people for education and make sure that they actually get started there. Cities have special programmes to allow young teachers to choose their city's education. In order to prevent outbursts, the young teacher, the young teacher, must be well supervised in his first year. This is far more important in the event of a failure than the financial incentive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u40	Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u41	It is true that the financial incentive plays a major role in the short term. That has indeed been proven behaviorally. It's also exactly what shady sellers get rich with. I wouldn't argue too strongly with that. I think the next point is important. We would like the right student to come to the right place and not because of the financial incentive that applies in this case for two years. We do everything we can to get the students in the right place through matching conversations and so on. The minister talked about students who tried hard work for four years, but didn't make it. I do not think that we should encourage this by reducing tuition fees for two years. We have to slow that down with good matching, because then the student is not in the right place. I'm still asking if this isn't actually a bad incentive when you're supposed to put the student in the right place, as the minister says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u42	Mrs. Nooren, next?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u43	My group's question was also prompted by the fact that the pressure in education is very high. During internships it is often said: come work with us, even if you do not have your diploma. This applies not only to this profession but also to other professions. The search is how to encourage people to complete their studies with this pressure on the labour market. You'll see that they'd rather have a motivated teacher for the class than no one for the class. It is very common in all companies to encourage people to complete things and make reimbursement arrangements. That's not for nothing. People love the work, but they don't always like studying for work. It's always with a positive intention. I don't think it's about whether people do their studies, but ultimately it's about getting more teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u44	Returning to Mr Ganzevoort's point, this is an additional incentive. Of course, these good matching conversations and that good selection still have to take place with the pabo, but this is an extra incentive to help young people who doubt whether they are going to follow teacher training or not, there are many and there are many people who might be just over that threshold. You are quite right, of course, that good matching still has to be achieved. It's not either-or, it's mostly and-and. It would be very bad if this was the only reason for people to choose that profession. I can hardly imagine that would happen either. And again, we've made a decision: do you do it at the beginning or at the end? This is just to help people get over that threshold, because you have to start that training first to finish it, and if you don't start it, you can't finish it at all. Of course, I fully agree with Mrs Nooren that we must avoid green picking. That's what's happening in other sectors now. Young people should not be taken off training too quickly to stand in front of the classroom. My fear is that they may be tomorrow's downfalls. There's a good reason for that training. You're absolutely right about that. We must be very vigilant about this. I hope that employers in education will be very careful about this too. We see that young teachers and teachers need to be extra well supervised, even though they have completed their training.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u45	Could this then be included in the monitor, not only the effect of those two years, but also the question whether the effectiveness of the measures really leads people to become teachers? You have to try to hold on to such a theme over the long term, otherwise you don't know if this is gonna work. It is a good experiment, because we have one year for everyone and two years for people who are going to do teacher training. The Minister has a lot of expectations for that. But how do we know it's gonna work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u46	We monitor how many young people complete pabo or teacher training and how many of them actually start working in education. It also monitors how many are still working after a number of years. We all keep that in mind because, throughout the whole package of measures we take to combat the shortage of teachers, you always have to look closely at how they work. For example, when young people drop out at the beginning of their careers, this means something for guidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u47	I commend the Minister for talking about a package of measures: tuition fees, how do we get the people in training, how do we get them in front of the class... Then they'll be escorted. Fine! Only, that follow-up is the crux. A lot of people just don't keep up in education. They are highly motivated, intrinsically motivated, but then it comes: appropriate education, bureaucracy... What is the Minister going to do to tackle this problem? That is the crux of the whole thing. It's very good that you have people in education, in training. But I miss that follow-up with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u48	You may miss that in this debate, but this debate is about reducing tuition fees. I think you will have another opportunity to discuss the appropriate education in this Chamber. Mr Slob concluded a fantastic work pressure agreement with education not so long ago, with as much as 430 million invested in reducing the workload in primary education. A good collective agreement has been concluded in which salaries increase considerably. So yes, we are really looking at the factors you mention. It's just that it's not exactly today's topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u49	Very briefly, Mr. Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u50	Then I'd like to advise the Minister. You have appointed a colleague from the First Chamber as advisor. Very nice, but you should also consider hiring people from the field as advisors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u51	I have heard the Minister say good things, also about the growth of new people who opt for teacher training. At the same time, I note from the legislative proposal that the evaluation is already planned after three years. To be honest, it seems to me that this measure is far too early to draw any good conclusions. Can the Minister comment on this before we expect each other to know in three years' time whether this was perfect? For this particular measure, that is very rapid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u52	You're absolutely right. In three years' time it will be too early to know all the effects, because, for example, the students who opt for teacher training will still be in their training. It was a wish from the other side to have that evaluation quickly, but of course we will not stop monitoring. The three-year review debate is therefore really only about what you can reasonably measure in three years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u53	Of course respect for the amendment adopted on the other side; I share that with the Minister. But I'd be very sad if we thought we knew everything. So what we can measure and judge, yes. But there will also be issues on which we have a moment to suspend our judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u54	It might be a bit of a waste of time to get caught up in all kinds of debates on other subjects and the involvement of field parties, which are well represented in, for example, the Education Council as an advisor. I do have another question for the Minister. In the National Student Survey we survey the students themselves. Would it perhaps be a suggestion, then maybe you'll get closer to what you really want to measure, to encrypt, if possible, in that student survey a number of questions about the extent to which financial aspects have taken into account for the student in making his study choice and whether, if that reduction had not been made, that student might have made a different choice? Are we not getting closer to the impact measurement that you would rather not be distracted, but would like to carry out directly? I'll just give it to the Minister as a question to consider.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u55	I think it's a sensible suggestion. I'd be happy to take it with me if we continue to shape that survey. Mrs Nooren asked why we are reducing tuition fees, but not the tuition fees for MBO students. Course fees for MBO students are of course much lower, around €1,100 at the moment. You may have noticed that I sent a letter to the Lower House this morning that we are restricting the school fees charged to MBO students. Sometimes hundreds of euros are involved, so this also means that MBO students are financially spared. Mrs Nooren also asked us on what grounds we now decide in which sectors we reduce tuition fees extra. The legislative proposal contains a limited list of the aspects on which differentiation can be made: the training, the academic year, the organisation of the training and the influx cohort. If, in future, we want to identify specific training courses with an additional discount, this will obviously also require a political and policy balance. Much will therefore depend on, for example, social developments... where are deficits? What do we have the resources for? A number of factors are important, such as the usefulness and necessity of the measure. Is it feasible? Is it explanatory? Is it affordable? And of course we always look at undesirable side effects, but the law does.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u56	Mrs. Nooren, one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u57	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Those are the facts. We know that, but my group's question was next. Now this is happening for teacher training, while there are screaming shortages in care and technology. All kinds of basic agreements have been reached by your colleagues. All sorts of measures are being taken to this end. My group is puzzled as to why it was only in teacher training that a two-year decline was chosen, which the Minister strongly argues here, and not in those other places where the same theme is at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u58	All the arguments I have mentioned play a part in this. For many technical professions where, for example, there are shortages, there is a very wide range of training courses. Then you really should reduce tuition fees for a very wide range of courses. There were also limits to the financial resources we had before. The same applies to the care. This is also about a broader range of training courses. A balance has been made: what financial resources do we have available and where exactly do we want to use them? But I don't rule out any other weighing being made at another time. It could always be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u59	I would now like to give the Minister the opportunity to continue her reply. I'll take a look at the clock; how much longer do you think you'll need?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u60	If the number of interruptions is limited, I will try to do so as soon as possible, Mr President. Mr Rinnooy Kan, Mr Bruijn and Mrs Martens asked to evaluate in three years' time with the knowledge that we would not know everything. Mr Bruijn and Mrs Nooren had the question of how long I expect the impact on entry into teacher training to be reasonably visible. On the first influx of 2018-2019, this will have no huge effects. According to Mrs Nooren, we have acted with a little too little caution, but we have already made it known to students earlier this year. As good and as angry as it could be, we communicated it. But if the fame is really better, we expect more of the effect. In the monitor that will appear in the first half of 2020, we need to be able to see the first clear effects. I say to Mr Bruijn that, of course, we keep our finger on the pulse in all sectors and see what is going on with the influx of freshmen. We'll all take that with us on the monitor. I think I've said the most about what we're all going to measure. Then I come to the point of compensation. Mr Bruijn in particular had the question: what exactly is the question of compensation? We have indeed agreed on global compensation through student-related funding on the basis of the t-2. We made that agreement with the Association of Colleges and the VSNU. Then why not on the precise effects? Because that would lead to additional administrative burdens. That means you have to put additional audit checks on that too. That's gonna take more paperwork. For that reason, I was not in favour of doing so. Of course, we will be monitoring whether there are major differences there. I assume that institutions will call on me, but for the time being we have agreed on this system, because we seem to have found the right balance in the balance: is it just enough and is it without too much burden? In the series in the government agreement are the implementation costs that we obviously incur at DUO, but also at Studielink and at the institutions. Mr Bruijn asked about the halving for the unpaid students to funded institutions. So they're also gonna have to deal with half the tuition. If you are in the right cohort and pay legal tuition fees, you will be eligible for this cut, provided you hadn't reached a degree before. Finally, I have a few more loose questions. Mrs Bikker asked whether careful implementation would be possible at this rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u61	Sorry, I had a very small question about the previous point. Is it true that for those uncosted students, for whom, I understand now, tuition fees are cut in half, the institutions will be compensated, unless they would normally not be paid for that student?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u62	Whether the student is paid for is not a condition for halving. So even the student who is not paid can get that half. The compensation is based on a normal funding system, so it does not count for the t-2-systematic. That then is a logical consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u63	That's what I'd think. So there may be an additional gap for the institution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u64	That might be possible, but once again, we agreed that this is the right balance, that this is just enough and that it is not too much of a burden. Mrs Bikker asked whether careful implementation would be possible at this rate. I can imagine you asking that question. We did it very quickly and it's quite a task, but the whole chain is ready to carry out that half ring. DUO can do it automatically, Studielink is ready and also the institutions have worked very hard to get this done. Once again, I would like to thank all those who have wished to participate in this. Mr. Chairman. I have already talked about the broader approach around the teachers. Mrs Nooren asked if there was any connection with quality agreements in higher education. No, there isn't. Those measures are separate from each other. Mr Van Kesteren has asked me if I am prepared to encourage more men to opt for education. Yes, we are working on this by taking this into account, for example, in the programming of the pabos, by ensuring that the boys who choose the pabo are more often in the classroom and by making sure that their first internship is not always in kindergarten, because experience shows that they often see against it. We can already see that these measures are having an effect, because more boys are now choosing the pabos. We will continue to follow that, but I do not think that positive discrimination in the context of the halving of tuition fees is appropriate. Madam President. Finally, Mrs Bikker's interesting question on the Treaty on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. You say that this is a good step in the right direction under that treaty, but should it not go much further? What the Treaty requires is that higher education is available and accessible to all. Higher education does not have to be free on the basis of that treaty either. The foundational education is, and we need to keep a close eye on that. I agree with you that the intention of the Treaty is to set as few thresholds as possible in higher education. This bill is quite a step in the right direction. And again, I will look further in the autumn: what further thresholds have we created apart from financial thresholds? Because with you, I believe that we should keep the accessibility of everyone as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u65	I'm glad to hear that intention. I must honestly say that when I looked at the Convention, the Minister put forward in the reply himself the article to which the Council of State refers, to my surprise, that higher education should be made equally accessible by means of all appropriate measures and in particular by the gradual introduction of free-of-charge education for everyone on the basis of competence. That "free" was a surprise to me, too, I honestly admit. But that is why I asked this question. I hope the Minister will go into it a little further. That can also be done in the second term. That goes beyond what she's saying about primary education. That's right. That's exactly what I had in mind. But this treaty raises the bar a little bit. Well, that's inspiring, too, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u66	Sure. Above all, the treaty must inspire to keep the barriers as small as possible. But we, too, have looked very closely at the Treaty and we come to the conclusion that the Treaty really makes a distinction between foundational education and higher education. At least that's the way we look at it. Of course, we would all like to see much less financial thresholds, but with me you know that there really is no such thing as free access.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u67	No, and that is why I did not ask the Minister. I appreciate the steps she wants to take, including in the autumn. At another time I like to get the explanation how this "free" is then exegetized; I love exegesis. But there's a point, I think. Other than that, I'm just gonna wait and see. But I think this is a special point that we should highlight with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u68	Sure. Thank you. Mr President, this brings me to the end of my first reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u69	Thank you. Then we have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister says she wants to increase access to teacher training with a package of measures. That's a good goal. However, with regard to the foreign student and the reduction of tuition fees, the PVV Group wishes to table and put to the vote a motion asking the Minister to consider a numerus fixus for foreign students, to optimise the effectiveness of this measure and at least to get as close to the objectives and principles as possible. Hence the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u71	Mr Bruijn's interruption first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u72	Let me put a question to Mr Van Kesteren before I put that motion to my group. If I understand correctly, Mr Van Kesteren, in his motion, advocates the establishment of a numerus fixus for foreign students, not for Dutch students. How does this relate to European legislation, which clearly states that we should not distinguish between Dutch and non-Dutch European students, for example in terms of accessibility, funding, study funding, etc.? Is this motion not contrary to the laws and regulations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u73	I can only say that my party, as a Eurosceptic, attaches more importance to the rules as we have them together. In doing so, I agree with many countries, many Member States in the European Union, which do the same. We shouldn't be more Roman than the Pope. We have a stake. Those are our Dutch students. The aim of this scheme is to help Dutch students facilitate their choice of study and also to relieve them in relation to study costs. I believe that we have an interest in this for the Dutch student and that we should not improve the whole world or at least have the interest of the European student, or wherever that student gets away. That is a position of mine, of my party, which I fully support. I think that we are getting through occasionally just by having European legislation above us; 'no, Brussels should not do that'. Well, all of a sudden, we're gonna have to get away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u74	But when I hear that, I wonder what is the most effective way to achieve this goal. By calling on the Dutch Government to do something that does not relate to European laws and regulations? Or would it be a more effective way to first try to influence those laws and regulations democratically in order to make room for the apparent effect of this motion by the PVV Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u75	The motion has been tabled for consideration. The Minister can then be creative in that. I can't imagine that it's so boarded up that you can't find a mode to be that Dutch student for the sake of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u76	I think it's very handsome of Mr. Bruijn. I haven't read the motion yet, but apparently you have had a very big hunch and you already know what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u77	I have already heard Mr Van Kesteren speak of a numerus fixus for foreign students. So that's what I'm hooking up on. I hope that the motion will not make it worse, Mr President, but thank you for this warning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u78	Well, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u79	I'm gonna ask... Mr. Rinnooy Kan, would you like to ask Mr. Van Kesteren right now? Or should I read the motion first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u80	Mr President, I can't wait to hear the motion from you!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u81	That's what I thought. That's what I suspected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u82	The motion. The President shall: Members Ton van Kesteren, Dercksen, Van Hattem, Van der Sluijs, Van Strien, Van Beek and Kok propose the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the englishing and internationalisation of our education has led more and more foreign students to find their way to the Dutch educational institutions, especially since the study costs are significantly lower than in the country of origin;]] [[noting that by reducing tuition fees, the incremental effect on the foreign student will only increase further;]] [[Whereas the measure to reduce tuition fees is not intended to further increase the influx of foreign students;]] [[calls on the Minister to examine the possibility of a numerus fixus for foreign students eligible for this measure of reduced legal tuition fees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34911-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u83	Thank you, Mr President. I listened to Mr Van Kesteren's cry of hearts. I was intrigued by one thing he said. He argued that there would be several European countries that would have introduced such measures long ago. My question is: does he know any examples of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u84	No, I said the Netherlands always wants to be roomier than the Pope. Brussels always hangs above it, and then it is: oh, Brussels is not allowed to do that. But other countries often think first of their own interest and then of another interest. That can be in all kinds of areas and with all kinds of subjects. I find this measure completely counterproductive. The SP has already indicated it: if foreign students receive a gift from Dutch society, we will continue. Then you're doing the wrong thing. That measure will then miss its purpose. That's what I'm trying to tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u85	Then I can be brief. I understand that Mr Van Kesteren, unlike what I suspected, knows no examples of other countries that would have done so already. I can only conclude that we have a totally different assessment of the effects of the presence of foreign students in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u86	That wasn't a question. That was a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u87	That happens often between D66 and the Party for Freedom. But that aside. This proposal is therefore ineffective and ineffective; it does not do justice to what it is intended to do, namely to increase the teacher's potential for the classroom and to reduce costs for Dutch students in particular. The SP has already indicated: giving gifts and distributing them to foreign students is not the starting point of this measure. As far as positive discrimination is concerned, I did not hear from the Minister any adequate measures that she has in mind, as she does in the field of scientific education for more professors in particular, for which everything is being removed. This should also apply in particular to primary education in order to increase the number of men in the classroom. It's not the fact that you put male students together in one class... cozy! Or that you don't let them come into contact with toddlers. I would also like to say that it has already begun to separate nursery and teacher or teacher training. That's where it's gone wrong. Anyway, that aside. Do I have any more? Yeah, about those motions. But that's because I haven't officially heard the motion from you. That's what we're gonna do...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u88	I read your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u89	Yeah, yeah. But I'm talking about motions that I've already had access to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u90	There's more coming from others? Aha. Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u91	Mr President, thank you. I thank the Minister for the answers to our questions. I would also like to thank her for the ambition of making education free of charge, which was not only part of her, but also of Mr Bikker, for example. That's a nice thought. For more inspiration, I would refer the Minister back to the GroenLinks election programme, which she clearly read well. There was indeed the idea to halve the tuition fees, not only for the first year but much wider. Increasing the additional grant and making it available to more people were also included, as were the maximisation of tuition fees for the second study and an additional scholarship for students with disabilities. It is only a few ideas that she can go forward with in the coming period and apparently she feels like doing so. So I look forward to further proposals. I also look forward to the proposals which are not only politically based, but also more convincing in terms of efficiency and efficiency. It has actually admitted that in this proposal. I would have liked to ask the Minister whether she would not be too active in this argument. Perhaps that would help to avoid too much confusion. I'm doing it with a motion that's a lot more constructive than that question. I'd be happy to give it to the chairman now. The President shall: Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Koffeman, Mr Nooren, Mr Gerkens and Mr Bruijn proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, after many years of increasing tuition fees for budgetary reasons, it may be appropriate to allow for a partial reduction at times of budgetary space;]] [[Whereas the substantive argument for reducing tuition fees for first-year students is not convincing everywhere;]] [[Whereas this legislative proposal provides, in fact, only the legal basis for a possible partial or partial reduction of the legal tuition fee and does not require this substantive argument;]] [[calls on the Government to pursue research-based arguments in the explanatory memorandum on future AMMs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34911-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u92	At least we tried. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u93	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. I give the floor to Mrs Martens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the CDA Group, very briefly. Thank you to the Minister for her answers and her first appearance here in the Chamber. There have been many aspects of the accessibility of education and the attractiveness of teacher training and teacher training respectively. We can debate this for a very long time. It is important enough and ideas are always welcome and interesting, but I think we have said enough about this for today. That is why I will confine myself to once again saying that I will advise my group to vote in favour of the legislative proposal, taking into account everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u95	Thank you, Mrs Martens. I give the floor to Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My group appreciates the Minister's response, for which I am very grateful. The Minister has promised to provide the budget with a policy letter on access to h.o. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on... come on, come on, come on... come on, come on... come on... come on... come on... come on... come on... come on... come on... come on... come on... come on... come on... come on... I hope that policy letter will come to this Chamber as well. Maybe the Minister can confirm that? This will also include decentralised selection and perhaps also the international student, insofar as it already has an impact on the accessibility of higher education. Having heard all this, my group is convinced that the effect of reducing tuition fees on the attractiveness of education for the Dutch student will of course not be different from that for the foreign student. This will also have no effect on the mix of students we need so badly in the international classroom. Therefore, a relative increase in the number of foreign students due to this bare measure is not to be expected either. Perhaps the Minister could comment briefly on that? Is that a correct assumption, because in any case we do not have to worry about a relative increase in the number of foreign students as a result of this law; perhaps in a different context, but not in this context? I welcome the commitment that the Minister will not pursue any further income policy on this issue either than we all do when it comes to funding higher education, because students are keen to get a job. For a job, a strong economy is needed and it is damaged by further leveling than we already do in this country. Thank you for the commitment of the review in three years' time. The effect of teacher training, which can be expected within a few years, is, of course, in line with that deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u97	Mr Bruijn says that he is pleased that this proposal does not address the issue of income equalisation. The question is how Mr Bruijn looks at the desirability of access to education for all, especially in the light of what Mrs Bikker said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u98	My group is very positive about this. We are therefore pleased that from the monitor that was released last week you have found that accessibility in the Netherlands is well in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u99	The same monitor shows that for a number of students with lower-income parents, the risk of higher education is low. Certain groups have difficulties with access to higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u100	That monitor shows that it can be relatively so, but in absolute terms this accessibility is very well organised in the Netherlands in an international context, both in terms of the quality of education and its accessibility, but of course we have to do a lot about it. The Minister has also announced a whole package in relation to study guidance, study choice guidance and study information, in order to further improve accessibility. So when it comes to the flow of mbo-hbo, this is also one of those measures. So we can look each other in the eye. Thank you also for the commitment to look again at the national student survey and perhaps include the more direct parameters on which this bill has an effect. Thanks also for the commitment to monitor other sectors. Finally, Mr President, compensation. It goes globally through student-related funding. Okay, the commitment to monitor whether there are major differences is, of course, already an important step in the right direction for my group. The Minister is counting on institutions to ring the bell. We think that's a little too noncommittal. In addition, the fact that uncosted students are also entitled to halving and the institutions do not receive compensation for this, at least for the time being it seems that an additional financial gap may arise. That is why my group would like to put forward a motion to take a more proactive look at possible differences, aiming at a proportionate distribution and full compensation of the institutions. That is why we are tabling this motion. The President shall: Mr Bruijn, Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Gerkens, Mr Nooren, Mr Bikker and Mr Rinnooy proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government should ensure that all host institutions are compensated for lost income and implementation costs for the "half-teaching tuition" measure under the Government Agreement;]] [[Whereas the evaluation of this measure also looks at the division staff;]] [[calls on the Government to review the allocation of the budget available for this measure if the evaluation reveals that the compensation per institution is not sufficient, with the aim of allowing all institutions to introduce budget-neutrally half the legal tuition fees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34911-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u102	Thank you, Mr. Bruijn. I give the floor to Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u103	Mr. Chairman. When we look at the law we're treating, it gives room for all specific groups of students to lower tuition fees. We thank the Minister for the answers that have clarified how the choices have been made that have led to the reduction that we are discussing today. The heart of the debate was on the basis of that reduction for all students in the first year and for two years for students who opt for teacher training. In addition, the Minister has shown that she stands for education and is using a wide range of measures to shape it. My group realizes that the debate we are having here may not do enough justice to the breadth of the efforts made by the Minister. So we look forward to the next exchange of views on the other measures that may lead to legislation. All in all, we are not convinced of the basis of this bill. We understand very well in this legislative proposal that what is stated in the coalition agreement has weighed heavily in the consideration it is to be presented here, even if that is not enough ground to defend a legislative proposal here, as Mr Ganzevoort says. At the same time, Mrs Bikker said that in the first term we should also do so with the legislative proposal that is now before us. The positive thing about the bill is that it reduces the financial incentive for all students to study. The Minister explained that. If it's cheaper, it's easier to cross that threshold. There are no differences of opinion between the Minister and my group. That seems good, but, as my group indicated in the debate, we expect that this reduction in the threshold for some of the students will be reversed by the government's intention to link interest for the study advance to the ten-year interest rate as of next year. Especially for students who make use of this law and especially for students who need an additional scholarship, this may raise the threshold for going to study again. The question we raised in the first term, namely what the Minister is doing to remove that feeling from the students, has not been answered. In short, we feel that the linking of interest rates for the study advance to the ten-year interest rate is undesirable. What is given with one hand is taken back with the other hand. In the view of the PvdA Group, a cabinet that wants to promote access to higher education should not take any measures that stand in the way of this. When it comes to the sustainability of government funding and you want to set it up, as a cabinet you can do a lot of things, including a well-integrated multi-annual treasury policy. Then why is that money being collected from the students, my group wonders. That is why my group wishes to table a motion for a resolution. The President shall: Mr Nooren, Mr Gerkens, Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Van Zandbrink, Mr Sent and Mr Fiers proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government's proposal for reduced legal tuition (34911) aims to improve access to higher education for all students;]] [[noting that this is accompanied by the intention of the Cabinet to align the interest for the study advance with the ten-year interest rate;]] [[whereas it actually increases the interest rate for the study advance and that this increase is borne, in particular, by students from low-income families;]] [[Whereas for this group of students access is thereby deteriorating and this is contrary to the legal principles of the social loan system;]] [[calls on the Government to abandon its intention to include interest on the study advance in the ten-year interest rate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34911-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u104	I have an enlightening question about this motion, at least a question aimed at clarification. We have just heard in the debate that a short-term discount usually has more effect than the same long-term discount, especially if it is spread. The Labour Party has also enthusiastically embraced this. If this increase in interest rates is linked to the reduction in tuition fees, it would therefore be a move that is neutral in budgetary terms, but it does have the effect of giving you a stronger incentive in the short term with the same euro than you can do in the long term. So even if it were paired... We have heard the government clearly say that this is not the case. In that case, the motion would also lead to a budget gap of 170 million. That is my other question: how is that covered? But even if it were covered, it would be exactly a movement of a long-term incentive and after a short-term incentive? And it'll be free. That is precisely the movement we have just heard the Labour Party say in the debate that it is absolutely beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u105	For the sake of clarity of the debate, Mr Ganzevoort spoke about the justification of this short-term incentive. In my group's reactions to the Minister, I argued in favour of keeping that line for a little longer, in order to actually get people into the profession. Studies have also been carried out to show that, for example, a salary increase has only been effective for three months. There are also behavioral studies that show other effects. Secondly, the government has not indicated any link and supports the link between ten-year interest rate and student debt with a broad policy. In order not to play a Lower House here, I have avoided linking it to the dividend tax and other measures that this cabinet is taking, but I have challenged the government to look at an integral multi-annual treasury policy that is able to absorb this small amount in relation to the total public debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u106	Finally, Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u107	If I submit this motion to my group, then I have to say that it is a motion without cover, which leads to a gap of EUR 170 million in the budget of OCW, with which we pay for our education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u108	Picking up that money doesn't go to OCW. This was for the overall sustainability of public finances. This link with the ten-year interest rate proposal is not correct. The Minister's argument for the ten-year interest rate proposal in the answers to questions you asked focused on the overall sustainability of public policy. If you ask what a potential cover is, this is an integral multi-annual treasury policy to compensate for this small amount in that total amount. That's what the Minister of Finance is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u109	I already said "finally." But I understand you still have one more point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u110	The next sentence is part of it, Mr President. Then it's even worse. So the effect of this gap in the budget can not only fall within OCW but even within any policy area. Of course, that doesn't make it any less harmful. But I am taking this motion to my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u111	Or not, if you want student accessibility to be a great asset. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. If we look at the quality of the underpinning of the proposals we have discussed, it is not convincing. This is without prejudice to the fact that I will advise my group to vote in favour of the proposal anyway. The tuition fee is reduced, the threshold for young people to study is reduced or reduced. students get less student debt because they don't have to borrow that €1,000. That is why I will advise my group to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u112	Thank you, Mrs Nooren. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u113	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying and, above all, to the heart of higher education that speaks of this. I'm very happy about that. This is evident today from the proposals for improving access to education, but this is even more evident from the Minister's announcement that there will be more. That's what I'm looking forward to. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for that step forward. It is precisely that that gives me the encouragement that we uphold that treaty that we love so much together, and that gives me and the Minister a great deal of encouragement. I have one thing to correct. In my first term I have the wrong article number. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to restrictions on the marketing and This may have led to the confusion in the official advice given to the Minister. It is Article 13 (2) (c). There is a real concept of "free of charge" for higher education. I'm not a mope, but I'd just like to ask the Minister to come back to this in the fall. If she is going to go back to lowering thresholds, then this is a good point to take care of. Mr. Chairman. Then we move on, because we talked about tackling the teacher shortage. I have heard an ambitious minister, and I welcome that. This bill is a building block, and no more than that. It's gonna take a lot. I would like to say that the first evaluation cannot yet answer this question. I am pleased that this Minister is also showing himself to be a real politician. I hope that will also be reflected in the evaluation. There's still one question left. It is about the qualitative objective, because it is just going to be very difficult to evaluate it. Actually, that's what I hear from the Minister. What are her expectations of the study that will be carried out on this? Does that make sense at the end of the day? Somewhere I would like that very much, for example when it comes to those technical studies or those longer studies I mentioned. But how? The Minister can come back to this in the autumn if more effort is needed to achieve a better or stronger story in about three years' time. I would like to join the Minister in thanking the implementation organisations which have done a very big job in a very short time. That is really handsome and I am pleased that the bill can be applied as soon as possible. At the same time, my group is concerned about how compensation will work out for the institutions that will have to do a lot in the short term. That is why, with some enthusiasm, I have co-signed Mr Bruijn's motion. All this means that my group has voted in favour of this bill. I can tell you that now, but I look forward to the reply of the Minister in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u114	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I give the floor to Mr Rinnooy Kan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can be brief. I have, with many here, appreciated the Minister's response, as well as her obvious commitment, her enthusiasm and her frankness, particularly the latter, when she recognized that the scientific basis of her original proposal was a matter for discussion. So be it, but as far as we are concerned, it is still a very defensive income support for students, whose potential positive side effects will serve very noble purposes. We look forward to it and hope for the best. I agree with the importance of careful compensation and have therefore co-signed Mr Bruijn's motion. I have also noticed with many of us here that many other subjects from educational countries have been reviewed during the last discussion, on which many of us have been eagerly commenting and responding. The lack of teachers was one of them. I'm very concerned about that, too. General labour market constraints and their translation towards what education should offer were certainly also to be found. I refer to internationalisation as a theme. These are all urgent issues, and I hope, above all, that this Minister will not keep us waiting for too long for an appropriate follow-up to the content, because we are in the mood, as the Minister is keen to do, even now that she has to take over the portfolio of her colleague. Undoubtedly, on behalf of many here, you would like to convey our best wishes. Unlike almost all other groups, we are not going to play 'Second Chamber', I would almost say, and we will not table any additional motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u116	Thank you, Mr. Rinnooy Kan. I give the floor to Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think that, in the interrupting debate I had with the Minister, all the inconsistencies in this bill were already well reflected. The Minister says on the one hand: there is no problem with influx into HBO and wo. That's all well recovered. This money is certainly not a gift, because this money is intended to improve access to education. I believe that this is an inconsistency, because if there is no problem with the influx, you do not need to improve it either. Then the Minister reassures us when we talk about financing foreign students. Most foreign students come from Germany, she says. It shows that money is not an incentive to study. Then the Germans are obviously different from the Dutch, according to this minister's reasoning, because with these gifts to the students, the minister says that more students will choose to study or even study at a pabo or teacher's education. I have to say that the Minister is shopping freely in available premises on this subject, but she is not making the argument entirely clear. I also note that the Minister has not answered any of my questions. This will make it quite difficult for my group to be positive about this bill. I have the following questions. Do we or do we not have a problem with the accessibility of the HBO and the wo? If so, for which groups is this a problem and is this measure a solution? The last, I think the most important question I had in my speech in the first term: does the Minister think it right that there are students who borrow to invest, compared to students who borrow to survive? I would like an answer to that. The motions that we have co-signed are well expressed where further our doubts lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u118	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. I am looking at the Minister and I see that she has the opportunity to reply immediately. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u119	Thank you, Mr President. For me, too, this debate tastes like more. I would like to discuss not only higher education, but also beautiful vocational education with you on other occasions. In the second term, I will give my opinion on the motions and address a single question. I shall begin with the motion with Mr Van Kesteren's letter I on the numerus fixus for foreign students. I reject this motion, first and foremost because the motion shows a very different view of the importance of internationalisation in higher education than mine. I would like to inform Mr Van Kesteren that the internationalisation of higher education is a Dutch interest. He disputes that, but it is a Dutch interest. Every year, the Dutch economy alone has 1.6 billion left to international students. I also have another look at Europe, but let us not have that debate here today. I am not just concerned that Brussels regulations do not allow it, I would not want it, and perhaps that is more important. Then Mr Ganzevoort's motion with the letter J. You ask me to look in the explanatory statement for future AMvBs for a research-based argument. We are politicians and must make political choices with great regularity that are not always based on scientific research. I think you would have to wait a lot longer than you would like to if we all had to provide the scientific basis for that. Sometimes it can and sometimes it is just political choices that you want to make. If you can do it, we'll do it. I think that's what's happening. But sometimes we just make a political choice. For that reason, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u120	One interruption, Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u121	I think that's enough, Mr. Chairman. I must advise this minister not to advise the motion. I understand the reflex, but I'm sorry. She could also say: it is policy support, because the cabinet seeks research-based arguments. Of course it can't always be. It doesn't say that it all has to be very scientific, but a pursuit of research-based arguments isn't too much to ask, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u122	I believe that we always have that aim. This simply makes the motion superfluous and I have learned that unnecessary motions are not recommended. So he is superfluous and, by the way, he can't always do it. For those reasons, I advise against her. I understand that that disappoints you, but I'll stick to my judgment. I would like to thank Mrs Martens for pointing out that I at least convinced her of the importance of this proposal. Mr Bruijn asked me, in response to the policy letter which came in the autumn, how we look at the accessibility of higher education other than through the financial instruments. That is a subject that is very dear to me. I'll send that policy letter if it's sent to the other side, too, to the First Chamber. I very much agree with you on the issue of internationalisation. You said that this does not lead to a relative increase in international students, because it does not result in a different balance for both national and international students, at least the European ones, who pay the legal tuition fees. Agreed. I don't think that makes it any different. In your motion, you ask for a more proactive look at the possible redistributing effects that emerge from this bill when it comes to financing the institutions. I have indicated to you what my hesitations are. I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. If she adopts the motion, we will look into it in the evaluation. Mrs Nooren made a comment about the ten-year interest rate. She says that this is an obstacle to access to higher education. I dispute that, because it is not going to be any different. Whether you pay the five-year interest rate or the ten-year interest rate, the carrying amount of never more than 4% per euro above the minimum wage will not really be different. If we want to ensure that it does not become a threshold, I believe that we should all express it and not spread any fear about it. That really does not lead to anything else in terms of carrying capacity. You will understand that I must discourage your motion. That is not only because I do not agree with it, but also because it would blow a hole in the state budget and I would never want to do that. Then Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u123	Mrs. Nooren is allowed to make one interruption. One, Mrs. Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u124	The question was what the minister was going to do to remove this fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u125	What I do, in my words, is always careful to point out that this load-bearing regime does not change and that there is no link between the two schemes. If a lot of people do that to me, I think we can prevent that image from coming into being. Then there is Mrs Bikker's question about the treaty. In my further letter on accessibility, I will also reflect on Article 13 (2) (c) of the Treaty. We will look carefully at what it means and how other countries deal with it. That, too, is relevant. You are quite right that this qualitative objective of course remains complex to measure, but it would be nice if students experience fewer financial thresholds in their choice of study and therefore indeed make a more qualitative choice. I would also like it if it would lead, for example, to more MBO students moving into higher education. We're gonna bring that up in the monitor as much as we can, but it's still complicated. We'll come back to you every year at the monitor. I shall pass on the best wishes to Mr Slob on behalf of Mr Rinnooy Kan. I am very pleased that he was allowed to leave the hospital today. Mrs Gerkens, I am sorry if you had the impression that I did not answer your questions, but I had the impression that I had included them in my speech. You asked: is there a problem in the accessibility of higher education? We saw that after the introduction of the study advance there was a dip, but that has recovered. So there's no problem, but of course it can always be better. That's actually what I keep striving for, for the better. How can we continue to improve accessibility? I think this is a very nice step for a lot of students in the right direction. You also talked about borrowing to invest or borrow to really finance your studies and live on during your studies. I don't think you should ever borrow to invest. Whether you're a student or not, I think it's always unwise. Where we have the idea that students may borrow excessively, we try to counteract that. For example, on the website of DUO we have turned off the check mark "maximum lending," so we also really force students to think about what they are borrowing. I think it is very good that we should make sure that we never borrow more than we need. Also the study advance and the supplementary scholarship are really meant to borrow what you really need.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u126	What I meant by that question and by my speech is the inequality that still exists for a lot of students. There are students who can indeed borrow to invest and do so, and there are students who need to borrow as much as possible to survive. My observation is that this measure does not remove it. As the Minister has promised today to think much more about what measures can be taken in the future, I would ask her to think about how we can resolve this inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u127	I have indicated that the consideration has been made not to do so now, because that has really happened with the increase in the supplementary grant. This has really been done to ensure that students who need maximum funding do so in the best possible way. The figures we have now do not show that there is a very big problem there. But it is always my ambition to continue to do what we need to ensure access to higher education for all. Mr President, that was the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u128	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-10-eerstekamer-15.u129	Then I'm gonna come to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I propose that we vote on the legislative proposal and the motions at the end of the sitting tonight. I shall suspend the meeting for a few minutes in anticipation of the Minister of Justice and Security.
