ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of Defense. I call Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands there are a lot of people who enjoy sports; there are also people who don't enjoy it but I'm not talking about that right now. The people who enjoy it now have all kinds of tools to understand how fast they have walked or what lap they want to do. There are all kinds of apps for it. That's actually great if you like to follow how good you are. Until Sunday I also found that positive myself, until I was actually a bit shocked by news coverage of the Strava app. That's an app that's used by a lot of people to see where you've been cycling, where you've been running and things like that. Normally, that is of course accessible to yourself. Only, this app or this organization once in a long time online gives an update of where everyone has cycled and walked. That in itself gives a nice insight into the whole world. What's the big deal now? That is that you see a lot of usage in the West and that you see in certain areas that certain things light up. These areas are, for example, Syria and Afghanistan. These are also areas of conflict where our military are also committed to peace and security. The point is, of course, that many of these military bases are supposed to remain secret and that it is certainly not intended to be visible when our soldiers make certain laps at any time and with how many. It seems to me that this is not the intention of my own logic, but it is also not the intention of the Defence Spokesman. I find that serious because our people deserve to do their job safely. That is why I have a number of questions for the Minister. The first question, of course, is what the Minister did when she found out on Sunday that this was the case and to what extent measures were taken immediately. What does the disclosure of Strava data for Dutch military abroad mean? How many soldiers use Strava and other apps where locations can possibly come online? What are the procedures at Defense for military, whether on mission or not, about wearing wearables, as they are called, with tracking capabilities? How safe is it by definition to let military use such apps? What are the consequences of breaking into the live data of an app like Strava that allows soldiers to be tracked in real time in the activities they do at the time? If the military do not share their location, will that data be stored and can it be broken in to still generate that data for perhaps bad purposes? Finally, I would like to say the following, which I think is perhaps the most worrying. We are incredibly careful when it comes to where our soldiers live and where they can feel safe. Now it seems that through that app you can also see where our soldiers live, what their name is and other data. I don't think that's the idea. That is why I very much hope that the Minister will be quite clear about what she is going to do with this new fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-6.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, as Mrs Belhaj said, you can think very differently about using these apps, as you can also look very differently at sportsmanship. I have, of course, seen, like you, that this has been in the international press over the past week. The use of apps and other techniques evolves. That's what you see all the time. New resources are being used over and over again. Military use them, of course, just like you and me and all kinds of other people. The article is not just about Dutch soldiers, but about what has been seen worldwide. So we are familiar with this fact and we know that it has now been posted on the Internet. Mrs Belhaj asked: what have you done about it? Here's what we've done. Our Director of Operations has immediately pointed out to everyone who has been abroad how that app works and what can happen with it. People need to be aware of what they're doing. There are instructions for people who go abroad to link their own data, such as home data. This applies not only to this app, but also to many other apps. It might as well be about using Facebook or other apps. There are guidelines for not betraying yourself in that sense. People need to be aware that they also disclose location data. In the first instance, there was yesterday, yes, it is Tuesday, so that was yesterday's message immediately sent to everyone to point out those dangers, what the problems in those areas are, how it works, etc. It is important that we raise people's awareness. We will continue to pay attention to this. Of course, it's still a bit of a rat race. We have to keep track of what's happening all the time. Our military, whether on broadcast or not, should be aware of what it means to link their own personal data to such an app. But that actually applies to everyone in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-6.u5	I would like to thank the Minister for taking the initiative yesterday, but I do not think that the relativization 'awareness' and 'it applies to everyone in the Netherlands' is entirely valid. We are, of course, working very hard to ensure that these people are able to do their job safely. I am still not clear at the moment whether it is a request to people not to do it or an obligation. You can also use those apps in a different way, so you can't track where you're going, or is it an obligation not to use those apps? And what are the consequences if you do? That seems very important to me, because otherwise it is up to everyone to decide whether or not to use these apps. I did not hear the answer to my second point. Did you also check out how many apps there are that share that information publicly online? I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-6.u7	It could be even more negative: what does it mean if a private company buys data?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-6.u8	On that last point, we keep an eye on it all the time. That's what I was trying to say with "it's a rat race." We constantly try to see what happens to all kinds of data. That's what we follow all the time. That's what I suggested. Again, the staff, both in the Netherlands and in the mission areas.... you are most concerned about the mission areas... has once again been reminded of the specific vulnerabilities of the use of specific privacy settings. The use of apps or other social media is not necessarily prohibited. It is forbidden for a number of people, but not for everyone, because people also maintain contacts with the home front through social media, for example. But they are now once again alerted to the privacy settings. So they have to use them differently, exactly as you say, so that the data is not traceable. That message went right out yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-30-tweedekamer-6.u9	Thank you, Minister and thank you, Mrs Belhaj. This brings us to the end of this oral Question Time. I'm suspending the meeting for 15 minutes. We'll continue at 3:00. Then we'll vote.
