ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now turn to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66 for his questions to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security on longer waiting times for applications for asylum. I call Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The cabinet strives for careful and rapid asylum procedures. Moreover, we all want a flexible asylum system: a system that prevents additional reception from being achieved in the short term, a system that also allows people who are allowed to remain to work quickly on their integration. Not for the first time, however, reality seems to be different. Refugee Work reports that the waiting times at the IND have now risen to 43 weeks. This means that it takes 43 weeks, almost a year on average, for asylum applications to be processed. This leads to overcrowded reception centres and also to a lot of uncertainty, frustration and unrest. Waiting isn't good for anyone. It also raises the question of what is going to happen with this flexible asylum system, because how flexible can organisations like the IND and the COA actually be if the delays and problems are so great? Mr. Chairman. D66 is very concerned about this development. I therefore have a number of questions for the Secretary of State. First of all... Are the figures for Refugee Work accurate? Second. In September, the Secretary of State told us that the waiting period was nineteen weeks. Now it would have almost doubled in a month or two. How is that possible? Third. What is the situation with regard to the delays in family reunification? At the beginning of the year, I spoke about this from this position. I am still hearing that there are thousands of cases where objections have been raised that have not been eliminated. Is that right? Fourth. What is the situation with regard to waiting times for extending temporary asylum permits and granting asylum authorisations for an indefinite period? On this point, too, I hear that waiting times are increasing. Is that correct, and if so, what will the Secretary of State do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-4.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Grothuizen for these questions. He asks if the figures, the lead times as outlined, are correct. The lead times at the IND vary by product, but we do not recognize the number of 43 weeks. The average lead time for the general asylum procedure up to now was 17 weeks. The extended asylum procedure, in other words, for the more complex cases that require more research, is set at 40 weeks. Apart from that, there are also a number of procedures that go much faster. I've reported that to the Chamber before. In Dublin matters, so people who have to go back to another EU country and people who come from a safe country of origin, we simply get the fast lead times as previously communicated. The 19 weeks in September was an average. I just indicated that the lead time is 17 weeks for the general asylum procedure and 40 weeks for the extended asylum procedure. That's far from the 43 weeks we can't place either. The delays in family reunification at the beginning of this year have been reduced. There will now be a decision on after-travel within the legal time limit. We were late at the beginning of the year. Some of them, of course, have not been accepted, so some of them will object. It's just gonna be that there's still a group of things to settle. That's some kind of bulk going through the chain. Finally, the waiting period for the renewal of a temporary asylum permit. This is also the case for the IND which currently pays off within the legal period of six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you for the answers from the Secretary of State. He says: I have to put this into perspective. Still, I hear disturbing numbers. 40 weeks before the extended asylum procedure is not exactly short. Then we'll be very close to the year. Then why is that? Does this mean that we sometimes shift staff back and forth and we solve the problem on one part, but create a problem on the other? The Secretary of State also said earlier that the IND is going to attract new people, but I understand from the media that this is not going so smoothly. What's the status of recruiting these extra people? Are they working by now? I mean, it was 70 people. Is that enough, these 70 people, to solve this kind of problem? The Secretary of State will, I hope, agree with me that we must strive to complete these procedures as quickly as possible. As a result: is the IND attractive enough as an employer? It is complicated and demanding work with many heavy responsibilities. Yet, as I understand it, there is a lot of work on temporary contracts. In a very tight labour market, this may not be the most attractive system. How does the Secretary of State view this? Is this how we can solve the problems? I also understand that there are problems in the shelter, that it would be full. Can the Minister say anything about that? And if that is the case, I understand from the media that the department says that insufficient flow is a factor in this. How does the Secretary of State view that? What does he think of local party members who say: we should not give our own statements of urgency? Do we not make the problem much worse and not just exacerbate the problems in the care system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-4.u6	That's a lot of questions in one. I'll walk them by soon. First the 40 weeks before the extended asylum procedure. This extended asylum procedure has a legal deadline of 26 weeks with the possibility of an extension of 9 months. That has everything to do with the fact that you're talking about things that aren't easy to take off. So 40 isn't very exceptional. Is there going to be a back and forth with staff? Yes. Where extra effort is needed, we are indeed moving with staff. That is precisely part of the flexibility that we want to see in the IND much more in the coming years. I have indeed indicated earlier that new people are being recruited. It is also not true that there is nothing wrong with the IND. We're gonna need new people. At the AO in September, I said that it was 70 formation sites. Earlier this year, 50 formation sites had already been opened. All together, that's 120. The good news is that 116 people have been recruited to do so. Apart from that, the IND recently decided to open another 78 vacancies. This is quite difficult in the current labour market, but the fact that it has so far succeeded in filling those vacancies gives me a bit of peace of mind. We still have to pull that hard in the future. It does not mean that the capacity will be in order tomorrow, because the people who have entered will receive internal training and it will take some time for them to be fully operational. In fact, people who are now working at the IND are partly used for the integration of new people. Finally, the question whether the IND is attractive. I think so. This is also proven by the fact that we still manage to fill the vacancies. The IND is, of course, also aware that attractive employership involves not putting everyone on a temporary contract, so people are increasingly focusing on a fixed contract from the start. At the COA, for example, the flow of status holders to municipalities stops. That is one of the reasons why the COA is quite full and there is a need to use spare capacity. Apart from whether or not you have priority for status holders as a municipality, you are obliged to house your part of the status holders, but this can be done in many different forms of housing. So if a municipality says it doesn't need that priority scheme, but that it does so in other ways, there are opportunities for that, including BZK grant flows to enable other types of housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-4.u7	Finally, Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-4.u8	A lot of questions, a lot of answers. Fortunately, in the end, the Secretary of State says that it is not the case that there are no problems and that we do need additional people. He hasn't been able to take care of me that we're shoving people around after all. Then you can say that it is flexible to respond to the problems, but if you remove people somewhere, the risk is that you build up the problems of the future in the place where you remove them. I would particularly like to give him the opportunity to continue paying attention to this problem. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-4.u9	Of course, but flexibility also means putting people where they are most needed. We agreed on one of the examples of this in a debate here in the Chamber. When a year ago the stock on after-travel was far too large, it was deliberately indicated: we are going to slide with people to get rid of the stock there. If we don't do that kind of slide, yes, then we create very large reservoirs of business, while other people at the IND have just as little to do. I'd say that's a shame, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-4.u10	Last week we saw quite a few families with children who have been staying here for years and are in uncertainty about their status for years. They can eventually be deported, because the children's pardon is not working. And now we're reading that it actually has to do with a shortage of staff. Does the government share my view that at the moment when such a child threatens to be evicted as a result of a shortage of staff, which led him to conclude after years, that that child, and the family, is not really to blame...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-4.u11	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-4.u12	... should get to that case and get a pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-4.u13	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-4.u14	No, because this is really jumping to conclusion. For people who have been here for years, they have generally followed much more than one procedure. For the most complicated cases, the extended asylum questions, the lead time at the moment is 40 weeks. For the most complicated asylum applications, you have a result after about 40 weeks. That's a lot different than years. I cannot prevent people from making a repeat request sometimes, and that is not limited to one, but that is more often. But it is not the case that the government has to ensure that people with one procedure can stretch their stay for years, without having any certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-4.u15	I don't understand. Over the past few weeks, I have only heard how important it is for the procedures to speed up, that things are going much more carefully but also, above all, faster. We're all reading now how big the waiting lists are. Next, I see in the budget that a cut of 38 million has been planned on the IND. Isn't it time to at least reverse it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-4.u16	We are talking about the budget. Periodically, we'll look at the predicted influx. That is what we are adapting the budget to. That's what we're doing this year. Then we'll see what we've got going on right now. In addition, I forgot to say that in my reply, we have seen that in recent months there has been an increasing influx of complex cases that require more treatment time. But that is also what we are taking action on. That is why I have just indicated that the IND has once again opened 78 vacancies and is also trying to settle this more stable for the future. We are not yet there, nor are we on the issue of the speedier passage of proceedings, but it is the ambition of this cabinet to take further steps in the coming years. We are working hard to see how we can do that and how we can speed up the entire logistics and lead times further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-4.u17	It must also be a little harsh for the Secretary of State to work hard from the cabinet to speed up these lead times, to ensure that people get into society as quickly as possible, and then conclude that the step from the shelter to the municipality, to their own home, apartment or own room, is stalling, and that it is also partly stalling because his own party members say that these people should no longer be given priority. I wonder how the Secretary of State deals with that wretchedness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-4.u18	That's what I just indicated. We've made agreements on the flow of status holders. This does not stop, and it does not stop only because some municipalities abolish the priority regime, because we see it across the board. I think the cut on the housing market also plays a role in this. But we are drawing together with the municipalities and the Minister of the Interior to take measures that, for example, enable other types of housing to be used, we have also seen this in recent years, which is why this flow of status holders is getting back on track. This can be done with more than just a priority arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-4.u19	Those who are allowed to stay here must be clear as soon as possible and those who are not allowed to stay here must leave as soon as possible. That is our starting point. During the heyday of the asylum influx, there was a lot of thought, also by VVD and Labour Party, to speed up those asylum procedures and speed up the outflow. My sincere question is now: has it worked out or does it no longer have the urgency it should have?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-4.u20	It's a matter of urgency. It means, for example, that we are strict at least to people who are not allowed to stay, the safelanders, the Dublin claimants, and we are also really ensuring that the lead times do not increase further. They hold places that you prefer to keep for people who are able to obtain an asylum permit. We are not yet there for those who make a promising request, but we are working very hard to continue the acceleration and improvement step by step. That didn't happen overnight. That's what I've reported to the Chamber before. For example, it was still quite a turn to fill the last group of vacancies, but we continue to work hard to make that possible in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-4.u21	That was in 2015. At that time, we made many such agreements. We are now in 2018. We agreed on these quick procedures. That was thought long and carefully, but that was the intention. What concrete results has this achieved? 'Cause we don't see it yet. Waiting times are only increasing. There's no staff. What makes us confident that things will be much better in the foreseeable future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-4.u22	Well, "in the foreseeable future"; I just outlined that people who have been recruited are still being integrated. That really is not from the other week or month past, but one of the things that has been introduced in recent years is the track policy, which means that we can make all the difference very quickly at the beginning in Ter Apel between people who have no chance of asylum here and people who do. That works to the full satisfaction. This shows, for example, that the lead times for people who do not have the right to asylum are still limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-06-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you.
