ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, Mr Arno Rutte, on behalf of the VVD, has the floor for his question to the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I would also like to welcome in Box K, about the report that too many traumatic agents would be left to their fate. I call Mr Arno Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Where others have to step back, the police take a step forward. The work of a policeman or woman is therefore often emotional, often dangerous, and often both emotional and dangerous. Anyone who ends up in that kind of work, in situations like that, may unfortunately experience a post-traumatic stress disorder, or PTSD. That is a very serious disorder, both for the agent concerned and for his or her family and friends. All the reasons why the national police should pay full attention to the prevention of PTSS and the supervision of officers with this serious condition. The Dutch Police Union, the NPB, came out today with a black book on the supervision of PTSS victims in the police. It sets out an image of agents who are left to their fate, who are not paid attention and who are driven by dismissal. Unfortunately I have heard similar sounds and examples myself in conversations with agents. I'm very worried about that, because if you work every day for our security, you deserve attention and support, especially when you're confronted with PTSD because of your work. That leads me to the following questions to the Minister. Does the Minister recognise the problems of police officers with trauma as described in the Dutch Police Union's black book? Does the Minister share the concerns of the VVD and does he also think that it is undesirable for agents with trauma to feel that they are left to their fate, that there is no attention for them and that there is a response to dismissal rather than recovery? Does the Minister agree with the VVD that agents who are literally in the line of fire in front of us and are therefore traumatized deserve all support and guidance? If the Minister does indeed share that view, what is he doing to ensure that such support and guidance are actually available? Finally, does the Minister agree with me that traumatic agents do not benefit from lengthy legal procedures before actual assistance is provided? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-5.u4	Madam President. I spoke to a couple of agents with PTSD in April. That was one of the most impressive conversations I've had in recent years. PTSD is very far-reaching, as you rightly say. Those conversations also made it clear to me that cops encounter terrible things in their work, not once, but very often. I am concerned that this problem is a matter for the police; I really do not need a black book for that. Police officers deserve good care and guidance if they have received psychosocial complaints or, more seriously, PTSD due to their work. The Corps has done all they can in recent years. So there's the PTSS and a 24/7 counter, but we're not there yet. You ask: do you recognize yourself in the image? I do recognize myself in the picture when it comes to the fact that we really still have to take steps. I recently sent your Chamber the police's plan of approach to absenteeism. The plan shall pay particular attention to PTSS. I have also indicated a number of measures that we are working on. The number of case managers PTSS at the hotline is increasing, so that applications can be processed more quickly. That was also one of the concerns that I have clearly identified in my conversations with the people themselves. One person said that the bureaucracy you sometimes encounter would almost make you sick. So we're working hard on it. Leaders should be better equipped for tasks in the supervision of sick police officers. They also follow more trainings to recognize the signals earlier. On the plan of action I hope it will soon be at the beginning of June to have a detailed and detailed debate with your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-5.u5	It is good to hear that the Minister himself is also talking to agents with PTSS and that the stories seize him as much as they seize me. It is also good to hear that the plan of action is ready and that it is being started. That's what's needed. The VVD had asked for that before. I'm glad the Minister takes that seriously. I have a number of additional questions. The Dutch Police Association states that all too often there is an incentive to resign. Surely the Minister will agree with me that if someone is confronted with PTSD, he is entitled to help and guidance, and not to resign? You can't fire someone who's sick at all. How does he look at that? The minister already discussed the role of the executives. They do indeed have an important role to play in reducing absenteeism. He has already indicated that there will be modules or trainings for executives. They're all necessary, but how compelling are they? If in practice it turns out that despite the training, such a manager still does not pay sufficient attention to someone with PTSS and he still doesn't guide that person well, does that really have any consequences? Finally. The Minister has already pointed it out, but I would like to pay particular attention to it. The NPB indicates that agents face trauma with lawyers instead of with help. Of course, that may sometimes be necessary. The damage settlement process must also have its way. But again, that doesn't stand in the way of a care process or the provision of help, does it? Can the Minister comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-5.u6	It's very noisy in the walkways.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-5.u7	I'm trying to speak with some voice upliftment, but that's all I can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-5.u8	Yeah, but it's not helping. We'll wait a minute. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-5.u9	I just named the point of the executives, too. We have explicitly stated in the plan of action that extra attention will be paid to this. That must also be shown in the near future. Otherwise, it wasn't going to be an approach. So I will not just speak to your Chamber about this shortly. I would also like to see how that has now been given a flywheel in a year's time. Then there is the issue of legalization and the question of aid. It is absolutely paramount, but it is and-and, because if an employee has suffered damage, the police, like any other good employer, have to compensate for that damage. The point, of course, is that police work is the work of people who take a step forward, who intervene and who intervene. Mr Rutte said the same in his introduction. Cops make tough house calls and stuff, too. Of course, it is considered that the consequences associated with this are properly addressed in such a PTSS programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-5.u10	It is good to hear the Minister say that a legal procedure may be necessary, but that it does not stand in the way of aid and support. It's one-one. I believe that this is crucial for the people involved. Finally. Unfortunately, agents are not the only ones facing dangerous work and therefore post-traumatic stress disorder. Also think of Defence employees, people who work on an ambulance and people who work at the NS. In what way will we work with, for example, Defense, the Fire Department, the NS and Ambulance Care Netherlands to get the best insights on how to best guide people with post-traumatic stress disorder. That's in the interests of our agents who stand day and night on the fence for our safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-5.u11	Madam President. This is a question that requires a more detailed answer. I think it would be most useful to respond to this in the context of the detailed consultation on the plan of action. There is, of course, an exchange of knowledge on the expertise side. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-5.u12	Of course, we cannot deal with our people in this way, with our agents in front of us in the front line. It's crazy for words that people who get traumatized should go to court or get caught up in bureaucracy. Once upon a time, there were people you could go to, but they've been cut off. The Minister should not promise here that he will make all kinds of plans, but that he will just make sure that there is a safe place where agents who experience trauma can go. That's where the cops see people who only have one goal, and that's helping those cops. Does the Minister agree with me that these things add up every day? The roster pressure, the pressure on agents to run services because there are gaps, because there are too few colleagues, also leads to the fact that agents have far too little time to process traumatic experiences.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr Van Raak says something that I fully agree with, and that is that agents are faced with very difficult and traumatic situations not once, but much more often and sometimes dozens of times. I would like to say out loud once again that this is an issue which I am concerned about and which I pay a great deal of attention to. That is also why I asked the police if I could have a conversation with a number of people who are themselves dealing with PTSD to make sure of that. But that's not what we're here for. Those are nice conversations. Well, that's nice, but at least they're conversations. I told you I already sent the plan to the Chamber. I would like to discuss this in detail with you. That plan goes into precisely the point that Mr Van Raak is right to touch. We really need to ensure that there is continuous preventive facilitation for people, even after people have entered that situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-5.u14	Mr. Chairman. I'm worried. It's not the first black book to be published about cases that play with the police. We've also seen a black book recently about discrimination in the police. Now it's about PTSD. That is, of course, very worrying. It gives a very penetrating picture of how PTSD is handled. We now have seven penetrating experiences. What I hear from the minister is that he feels compassion and shows with the policemen who have PTSD. A lot of cops stand between order and disorder. Is there any possibility of a longitudinal investigation into agents dealing with this in which the effects of care can be taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-5.u15	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-5.u16	I'll take that last thought with me. I will come back to that when we have that discussion. Again, it is not just about compassion but also about actions. That's why it's called a plan of action and not a plan of compassion. You can certainly appeal to me that we are really going to ensure that steps are taken forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-5.u17	Mr. Chairman. Last week I received a letter from a cop who had served for 40 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-5.u18	I have to interrupt you, because you're really unheard of by the noise behind you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-5.u19	That letter said: For 40 years of service, I thank you very much, the chief of police, on behalf of this unit chief, on behalf of this team chief. The sentence below was that this message was created electronically and cannot therefore be signed. I'm concerned about the personal attention within the police. I would like to appeal to the Minister to get such attention to each other, in addition to all the plans he has.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-5.u20	If you have received such a letter, you really have a point. I'm gonna make sure we take this a little differently. I still hope it is a one-off incident, but you do have a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-5.u21	The reports on the traumatic experiences of police officers have also caused us a great deal of concern. We expressed these experiences when we discussed the budget of justice last November. I support the Minister when he says that we must constantly pay attention to police care and prevention, because they end up in serious situations, sometimes to life and death, and sometimes also have to make complex moral considerations. In the debate at the time, Mr Van Dam and I tabled an amendment which regulates the attention given to the person and to mental care and regulates the establishment of a professional facility for that purpose. What progress has been made in setting up such a provision for mental care? Can we get this off the ground as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-5.u22	That's what we've been talking about. This will come back when we discuss the plan of action. It is certainly an important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-5.u23	Finally, Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-5.u24	Out of the ten people who report with a request for help due to PTSD complaints, nine applications are granted. Still, it takes three months for such a trial to complete. Can we not reverse the fact, so that you start the process anyway in order to get help for your mental complaints and then it is legally figured out whether it is all right according to the whole protocol that has been properly prepared for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-5.u25	I find your point right that it is unbearable for someone with post-traumatic stress disorder to be in some kind of procedure for three months. I also said in my first term that it is really very important that we get rid of that bureaucracy, so that it really reduces. All I can say is I'm taking your thoughts with me. But I still think that for those involved in such a procedure, but again, much faster and better, there is also a certain recognition of the situation in which someone is sitting and the suffering that has happened to someone. That's what I get from the conversations I had myself. Your point is above all that it takes too long. I'm gonna have to send for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-5.u26	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this oral Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments and then we shall vote.
