ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now turn to Mrs Den Boer's question to the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I would also like to welcome. The question is about ethnic profiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last night I saw on TV the documentary Suspected of the KRO-NCRV. I was deeply touched by the penetrating view given in this documentary of impotence, irritation, humiliation, alienation, anger and anger to be seen as a suspect over and over again. A lawyer, a physics teacher, an entrepreneur, a youth counselor, a soldier, and yes, even policemen tell what happened to them in the documentary. It could just be your neighbor, your sister, your son, a neighbor who gets ethnically profiled. Mr. Chairman. All these stories are unheard of. How is it that after so many years of integration, Dutch people with a non-Western background still face deep-seated prejudices? If you're driving an expensive car, so to speak, you're already suspicious. If you get out of an alleyway or get in the car a little longer, the police will come at you. If you ask why you're being held up, you won't get an explanation. Verbal violence by the police is still the order of the day. One of the people in the documentary was even called "monkey." Someone else witnessed his pants being ripped off. And another that he was dragged out of the car hard-handed. And if you ask why, then the reward is a night cell. Mr. Chairman. My predecessor Fatma Koşer Kaya has mentioned this before. Two years ago, the famous Dutchman and rapper Typhoon became victims of ethnic profiling. He was then apologized by the minister, but is this minister also willing to apologize to all these people who have put their story on the table in the documentary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. I saw the documentary Suspect last week. I'm just saying right away: I find it painful what these people have been through. I am very concerned about that, too. It's a discriminatory approach. That's unacceptable. It undermines citizens' confidence in the police. I also say that one case is too much right away. For that reason and in order to rule out any misunderstandings, I said here in the Chamber very shortly after my arrival, after I had also discussed this with the corps leadership: ethnic profiling does not come into the police. Police and the Ministry are also in open dialogue with the interest organisations Control Alt Delete and Amnesty to see how we really get those cases of individual discrimination based on prejudice, which still happens in practice, to zero. I would like to mention a number of things that are being dealt with in concrete terms. The police have attended the screening to a number of base teams in large numbers. I myself witnessed that recommendation being made. It has also been said: look at this documentary. In addition, the police have the program Power of difference, which focuses a lot on this in education and training. There is also taught in removing possible prejudices against groups of people or individuals in your work. There has also been proactive monitoring of the framework of action; I wrote a letter to your Chamber on that at the beginning of February of this year. That framework of action has been deliberately introduced in order to contribute to the fact that, if police officers intend to carry out a check, they aim to knowingly ask why they are doing that check, what justification they are doing and whether there is a legitimate reason for that check. This is being rolled out right now. Further consideration is being given to how we can add to the police's MEOS application a function that also brings the framework of action directly in the context of checks. Furthermore, the police does a monitor of the results at this point. She also shares this with Amnesty International and Control Alt Delete, in order to be transparent and get the criticism right away. At the end of the spring, or at the beginning of the summer, I will at least inform you clearly before the recess of 2019, so that we can talk about it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u5	I'm glad the Minister shares my concerns, but he's not going to apologize. Why was that done to rapper Typhoon, but not to these people who go through the same practice? I hear the Minister say fine words about all the trials he would have started. But in practice it still appears that we haven't moved a meter in those few years. The time of words is now really behind us. It's time for action. I ask the Minister to apologize and to ensure that the practice of ethnic profiling is a thing of the past in the Netherlands. I do see a minister using different measures, but I do not yet hear a structural solution in which there is some urgency, when years ago all the alarm bells should have gone off at the Ministry. The poison of exclusion must be permanently banned from the police organisation. We must no longer regard ethnic profiling as an incident, but as a pattern that must be ruled out. Why ask for an ID if someone isn't a suspect? Why keep someone standing without a criminal record or a specific criminal offence? And why search cars thoroughly and thus help to escalate? People of non-Western descent are maintained much more often than people of Western descent. I ask the Minister to come up with more than just fine words and a structural solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u6	I have listed a number of very concrete measures. I have also deliberately mentioned the concrete things and omitted the somewhat softer programmes, because I really want to show that it is the corps line that is serious. Same goes for me personally. In the run-up to the outcome of that monitor, I will certainly sit with the corps leadership, also in connection with this documentary, to see if we can't do any more. But I do believe that a number of very concrete things have been put into motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u7	Finally, Mrs Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u8	For D66 any form of ethnic profiling is unacceptable. I don't want to be back here in two years with the same stories and the same questions. I very much hope that the Minister shares this desire with me. D66 regrets that the Minister has been willing to apologize to a well-known rapper, but is not now prepared to do the same for these people who happen to it regularly, with all the consequences. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you, Mrs Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u10	While the Minister always says that he does not deal with individual cases, he does now when it comes to a documentary. There are always other sides of a story. I hear them a lot too, but when I bring them up, they are "individual matters." What I have difficulty with is that an entire organization is now being put away as if it were ethnically profiling a common thread in it. That does affect the people who approach me, who also have their story. Would the Minister be prepared to introduce some nuance, and not only the organisation as a whole, but also individual agents, who are doing their stinking best to act properly, once again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u11	Part of what Mrs Helder says certainly appeals to me, namely to stand up for our policemen as well. I have also made it clear that it is not so much about ethnic profiling. That's out of the question with the police. These are individual cases where people have been discriminated against. That's what they tell us in the documentary. I have indicated that I find that painful and unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u12	I hear that ethnic profiling is out of the question and it is about individual cases. However, I am concerned that sometimes policies are being made that ethnic profiling is very much in the hand. Take, for example, the smashing approach in Rotterdam, where young people with branded clothing have to account for how they got it. How do you select these kids? The Rotterdam Ombudsman has also said that this soon leads to ethnic profiling. How does the Minister see this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u13	Then I take a little back on my past, too, because I wrote about it once. For example, if you only select on pulling out large SUVs without looking at who's behind the wheel, that's allowed, because then you say: that's a particular type of car that we run into a lot in bank robberies, for example. Let me just mention something: this is a made-up example. In that case, according to settled case-law, it is a justified measure to select it. I thought it was about expensive watches, by the way. If you're just saying to someone: listen, you have a very expensive watch on it, and I want information on it...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u14	You have a very expensive watch!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u15	Well, I wish I had expensive watches. At least you can talk to someone about that. Then select on the expensive watches. I do think that Mrs Buitenweg has a point that is very specific and that you should do it very tight, otherwise you might end up in the wrong corner. We shouldn't have that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u16	Significant of the Minister's view, his answer was a week or two ago in the general consultation. I asked him the question about ethnic profiling. The minister literally said: "You mean ethnic profiling? The cops don't do that anymore. I've said that a few times." I wonder whether the Minister also recognizes this problem, which was explained yesterday by a dozen people and which is painful and intrusive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u17	Then I come back to the point made by Mrs Helder and I'll stand up for the police. The police are an honorable organization, which is made up of honest people. That things go wrong, for example because people can't let a certain bias for what it is and apply it once in their work, of which I say: every incident is too much. But we must continue to realise that we must continue to work on this. You can always call me on that. You did that at the end of 2017 in my budget, following my letter and again in November. You can always do that, but at least the police say very clearly: we do not do ethnic profiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u18	But the practice is that it does turn out that way. I agree with you that a lot of agents are working every day to make the Netherlands fairer and safer. As someone said yesterday: I want to be friends with the police, but if I am unjustly arrested every day, it becomes so complicated. If we identify such a problem in society, we will normally measure it. On that basis, we come up with a plan of action and then we measure again whether that problem is getting smaller. On this point, I ask the Minister if he has any idea how big this problem is. Don't come up with those few sides of The Power of the difference; that doesn't even contain the term "ethnic profiling." Do you have a sound approach, based on measurements, and can you really say that it is moving in the right direction? What do you base that on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u19	I should take the power of the difference again, but I think that things like ethnic profiling are very clearly put in there as unacceptable. However, I have already indicated that I would like to repeat that in the direction of Mr Azarkan... that the police are monitoring this, just to see if they are doing the right things to get this to zero. I have already announced that I will report to your Chamber before the summer on the results and will indicate whether we are really making progress here, because that is a legitimate question from Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u20	Ethnic profiling is actually unprofessional police action. This is also said by the police, but at the same time it is also a very human thing. I do it all the time; I'm not a cop. It cannot be justified, but it must be changed. Unlike D66 and DENK, I am confident that the police are taking a lot of steps. The Minister is now being asked to apologize. I think that is rather symbolic and not necessary, but will these people be contacted by the police on the occasion of that broadcast in order to make that connection and explain in that particular case? Maybe there's an apology in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u21	I think that is a valid point. I believe that there has been contact, but I would like to assure you that you will return to your Chamber in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u22	Prejudice we all have. Then it's about how you act based on what you're taught. We can see that this is not only a matter of concern to the police, but also to the military and perhaps other services. My specific question is, therefore, whether the Minister is going to go further than just the police. We all see the dilemma. So it's not just that you don't want to. Apparently there is also something in the training and training which makes this almost worn-in patterns. So my second question is how are you going to break those patterns?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u23	As far as the latter is concerned, as I said, there is now more in the training and training to be able to get those worn out things out. As far as the first is concerned, I am sure that I intend to use this more widely with the other services that I am responsible for, for example, the fire department. I also agree to take with me in the letter that comes before the summer the way we stand with the other services.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you.
