ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of Members Van Oosten, Keikhuizen and Grothuizen amending Book 1 of the Civil Code and any other laws relating to the revision of the system of partner alimony in unit 34231. I would like to welcome the initiators. They are supported by Carlijn van der Vegt-Boshouwers, family law attorney, Paul van der Ploeg, divorce expert, and Jasper Boon, policy officer of the VVD group. Welcome! I would also like to welcome the Minister for Legal Protection. He's here today as an advisor to the Chamber. The first term of office took place a while ago, namely on 27 June last. Today we have come to the answer of all the first-term questions. The initiators have indicated that Mr Van Oosten will speak and that the intention is to conclude the second term this evening. We need to see if we can still have a short suspension in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u2	First of all, I give the floor to Mr Van Oosten. Maybe he can also indicate how he's going to answer all the questions, by group or in cubes. I call Mr Van Oosten. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I'm going to take you in the cubes as we thought. But I will not do so until I thank my fellow Members for their first contribution, some time ago. I am doing this, in particular, on behalf of the co-initiators of this bill. You can see them sitting next to me: Attje Kuik van de PvdA and Maarten Groothuizen van D66. We couldn't have stood here without our employees. You have already mentioned a number of them, namely Paul van der Ploeg, Carlijn van der Vegt and Jasper Boon, but not everyone wants to sit here. We have two other policy officers, a policy officer from the PvdA Group, Ton Langenhuijsen, and Max Ruesen from D66. I'm spying if I see Ton. I don't see him right now, but I'm sure he's watching. Thank you very much to them on my part, on our part too, because they have helped to make it possible for us to stand where we are today. We hope to see a vote next week, after which we will finally take this law to the Upper House. However, we are not yet there, because some critical questions have been asked by Members. "Constructively constructive" I would like to call them. We'd like to go into that. We had invented the following blocks: a block on the position of alimony beneficiaries over 50 years, a block of AOW, a block of hardness clause.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That last block has some subthemes, including the subtheme Van Nispen and the subtheme Markuszower. I'm sure the colleagues will know. I'll start with the block of older women, because that's what we're talking about in practice. It does not necessarily have to be so, but it is true that colleagues in the Chamber have particularly expressed their concern about women aged 50 and over who come out of a long marriage and are faced with divorce. It is colleagues Buitenweg, Van Nispen, Mrs Van der Graaf, Mr Kerstens, Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Van der Staaij who have asked for particular attention to this group. The question arises as to whether this legislative proposal could not have adverse effects on this group. It was Mrs Van Toorenburg who even called it "a bone in the throat." I see that she is now being replaced by Mr Van Dam, but of course he is taking up her words. Mr Van Nispen specifically asked for a relief for this group. Mrs Buitenweg spoke about persistent stereotypes and role patterns that make women more financially dependent. We could and would not accept this criticism. We've been attracted to them, and that's why we've changed the bill. I hope colleagues have had an opportunity to read that. We have adapted it in such a way that we want to improve the position of alimony beneficiaries aged 50 and over. In other words, the proposal takes into account alimony beneficiaries who have a long marriage of up to ten years before the AOW age. So at the moment this is about 57 years and over, unless that AOW age changes again. They get up to ten years, instead of five years, alimony. But then the group from 50 years to 57 years. It would only receive alimony for five years, with the exception of the hardness clause. In the bill before you, it has been amended so that this group gets ten years of alimony from 50 to 57 standard. Therefore, any creditor who, at the time of entry into force of this law, is 50 years of age or older and has been married for more than 15 years, will receive alimony for 10 years. There's a "but" coming. I am going to mention this: we do not want to allow this supplementary scheme for alimony beneficiaries to exist forever. As the age of AOW increases and older people have to stay longer at work, this group must also be able to stand on its own feet. That is the hope we have at least. We may differ on this, but we expect and hope that the financial position of young women in our country will improve in the future. Traditional roles are disappearing and the employment rate of both men and women is becoming more equal than today. As a result, everyone can go through life financially independently. We understand the world isn't like this yet. That is why we have chosen to introduce a slow phasing-out scheme. Let me give you an example of how that works. If your Chamber adopts the law and the First Chamber considers it to be positive, the law may enter into force on 1 January 2020. This additional relief applies to alimony recipients born on or before 1 January 1970 because they are 50 years or older at the time of entry into force. As you can see, this group is getting smaller every year, because fewer and fewer people are going to be born before that date. So that's the slow-down control. Individuals who are ten years younger than the AOW age at the time of entry into force of the law are, of course, already covered by the existing exceptions. Finally, on this block and perhaps a plethora of it: I think it is right that we make a clear distinction between the right to alimony and the actual receipt of it. The single right to alimony is not enough to get it. Of course, that depends on the judge. It assesses and looks at needs and capacities before deciding to impose such an obligation. That's where we don't change the law. The existing practice remains the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u4	Thank you. You came with that at the end of the first block. There is an interruption by Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u5	It is a good thing that we started with this point, because this was indeed a matter for many groups in the first term. Thank you for the clear statement and compliments for the third letter of amendment. But still: this softening has acquired a temporary character. Mr Van Oosten explains this, but I would like to question that. Why has a temporary rule been specifically chosen now? I understand the hope and expectation that in seven years' time the situation will be such that there will be financial equivalence. But is the expectation that the group of people aged 50 and over will have a financially equivalent position in seven years' time? How realistic is that, given the current reality?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u6	You could say that some of this is obviously a political discussion that goes beyond this bill. I think it's got to be all of us trying to get there. We were so in the bill that we said we don't have to. We'll hear what you're saying. And we are very much in favour of taking a step in the revision of partner alimony. This is a necessary step. We have also been persuaded by the fact that there is indeed a group of women who are now under 57 and who have not been able to prepare for this law. That makes a difference. That is my answer in the most concrete sense. They have not been able to prepare for a situation in which maintenance is reduced. In seven years' time, when we are so far ahead of time, we think that the group of people, women and men, because they can also be men, has been able to adapt to that. The law has been like this for a number of years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u7	Thank you. Mr Van Nispen, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u8	It is not so much a difference in political understanding whether or not we want the labour market to be equal. That's what everyone wants, of course. I understand that question is broader. That of course concerns the labour market, social affairs and so on. It is broader than this debate. I get that. However, the specific question: do the initiators now assume that women or men who become 50 in seven years' time will be so active in the labour market? If so, how can we be sure that this temporary measure, this temporary relief, will no longer be necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u9	Again, the law will soon become what it is. We hope it will be as it is today. That means that the men or women who may be affected know that at some point, when a divorce comes, they have a five-year maintenance period. That's what you'll be able to decorate on. Unlike the current situation, we are building a phasing-out scheme whereby people can get used to that fact. And we spare the group that would be hit the hardest because they haven't been able to prepare for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u10	I appreciate that change being made. At the same time, I still have doubts about the idea or the hope that it will automatically improve. That is also why I said that there is persistent stereotyping and prejudice, as Mr van Oosten has quoted. My question is therefore whether Mr Van Oosten can see anything in my proposal to make good research into what further obstacles there are. That can be anything: obstacles in child care or any other kind of obstacle which does not yet have sufficient distribution of work and care. I believe that this should be taken into account at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u11	For our part, there is no objection to carrying out such an investigation. This may also contribute to shaping our society in order to achieve that goal. But of course it is true, and Mrs Buitenweg also knows that it is not up to the initiators to judge. That is something that will then be deposited with the cabinet. It is not for me, as spokesman for the VVD Group, to judge this either, because the VVD colleague is now in front of me. But I understand your question and the honourable Member understands your question as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u12	Thank you. Perhaps it will also be a question for the Minister to answer later. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u13	Research alone is, of course, not enough, but as far as I am concerned, there should be some sort of roadmap to ensure that this division of work and care is improved. These are the steps I would like to see. Then I can also understand why the law will be set up as proposed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u14	Thank you. I didn't hear a new question. I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u15	Same thing. On this very point, the Council of State had a very fundamental criticism and said: the initiators are based on a reality that is far from social reality. The question remains: if social reality, despite the fact that it is very much expressed that it is important to have an equal division of labour and care, is that also couples sometimes make different choices, then can and may not? To what extent does this law, this proposal, not mean, with all due respect and appreciation for the step that has been taken now, of a situation which is not always consistent, even in the future, with social reality?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u16	People are and remain happy in this country. Therefore, we are all so proud of this country as well. Only we as initiator do say: at some point, if you decide to end the marriage, then there is a real time limit within which one partner has to support the other partner. We believe that the 12-year period is too long. We listened very carefully to the sounds here. We have also looked at the reality that has now been shaped in the Netherlands. That is why we have laid down two exceptions in the law. In addition, we have heard the comments from your Chamber to increase that group on a temporary basis. Eventually there may also be a difference in how we would like to see the Netherlands. In the longer term, we think that five years is enough if you say that there are two exceptions, which make it possible for groups to get alimony for more than five years, namely if you are at your AOW-right age and come from a traditional marriage, or if you are caring for young children.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u17	Finally, a question. If you assume that the changes have occurred only very limitedly, that is also stated in the cited literature by the Council of State on which the initiators base the statement that according to the third amended note that temporaryity is real?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u18	This is based on the following assumption and expectation. This is a theme that lives very much. We know that better than anyone else, because we receive daily e-mails from people who have questions about it and who have concerns about it. Of alimony-holders and alimony-payers, from both sides. So the theme is very much alive. I'm sure if anyone's even considering a divorce, they're really gonna see what kind of world they're gonna end up in. To be honest, therefore, we have no doubt that if we get a law as we are now proposing and we organise a proper period of about seven years starting from 1 January 2020, we realize that after that time the duration is five years and we have to prepare ourselves for it in the choices we make, including during marriage. That seems to me to be a healthy starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u20	Then I want to go to block two. That's about the AOW. Mr Van Nispen and Mr Kerstens have particularly encouraged this. They asked a number of questions about this in the first period. Mr Van Nispen, for example, asked whether it is reasonable that the maintenance obligation should always stop if the maintenance obligation is usually the man, although it does not need to receive AOW. We have taken that back and we have come to the conclusion that that is indeed not reasonable, so we have decided to drop that rule. The attainment of the AOW age does not therefore mean the end of the maintenance obligation. This means that nothing changes in this respect compared to the current law, because that is not the case now either. The current law is therefore in fact in force. This is also an improvement for 50-plussers, men or women, because they will be more quickly in the situation of their ex-partner reaching the AOW age. Now it may happen that reaching the AOW age is reason to ask the judge to stop or change the maintenance obligation. After all, the new AOWer generally no longer has any income from labour, but has to continue to pay alimony. Moreover, the creditor often receives an additional source of income under the law on settlement of pension rights in the event of divorce. If this new situation is very unfair, it is usually corrected by the judge. For those who love it: so you can rely on changed circumstances under Article 401, Book 1 of the Civil Code. So we don't change anything about that practice either. We would point out that, of course, it is possible to take account of this situation, for example in the divorce agreement. If partners are divorced while the maintenance agent is close to the AOW-age, the partners can agree that the maintenance obligation will be reviewed at the time when the AOW-age has actually arrived. As initiators, we really refer to the family legal profession, which can act in an advisory capacity. Then I come to the hardness clause. That is the third point. A number of colleagues have also asked: Mr Van Nispen, Mr Koopmans, Mr Kerstens and Mr Van der Staaij. The law contains a general hardness clause to which any maintenance beneficiary can rely. There are situations where, at the end of the maintenance period of, say, five years or, in the case of the period under the exceptions, ten or twelve years of termination of the maintenance obligation is simply not reasonable. In that case, the court may grant an extension of the maintenance period. This is what the judge does when stopping it is so profound that it cannot be required by standards of reasonableness and fairness. That is a terminology that we did not come up with ourselves. We borrowed it from the law. The hardness clause in our own-initiative proposal is, in fact, the same as the current hardness clause. I shall, of course, come back to Mr Van Nispen's amendment, but first of all I would like to say something else. It is said that recourse to the hardness clause is rarely honoured. That's not entirely true. There are several examples in which the courts have invoked the hardness clause. This is usually a situation in which the woman became seriously ill during the marriage and that is still after the end of the maintenance period. As a result, the woman cannot provide for her own livelihood and the judge finds that the man has to pay more alimony. Again, this is a purely fictional example. It could be the other way around. But I admit that in most cases recourse to the hardness clause is not granted. After all, twelve years have already been paid, that is the reasoning of the judge, and at some point it is also ready. Now it may be that the judge decides otherwise after this bill enters into force. For yes, exceptions aside, the maintenance obligation is five years instead of twelve years by our legislative proposal. After five years, it may be more common not to require a cessation on the basis of reasonableness and fairness. We can imagine that recourse to the hardness clause in the future, at least shortly after the entry into force of the law, could be more frequently honoured than in the past. But that's really up to the judge, and we should stay away from that as much as possible, I'd be serious. Whether it happens, we don't know. We also do not want to be too restrictive or too binding in this. But then there is the amendment tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Van Toorenburg. As far as the Acts are concerned, I would add that the amendment in my view is still part No. 15. I don't know if it still has that number.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u21	Yes, it is still the amendment to item No. 15. Correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u22	That amendment aims to create a different review framework than the current Article 157 (5). As I said, the initiators say to a certain extent: we have already created this review framework by shortening the maintenance period, and the judge might agree with that. However, we understand the desire to soften the hardness clause in the legislative text in such a way that there are less poignant situations as a result of the shortening of alimony. That is why we can support the amendment. I do not know if it works that way, Mr President, but if the authors agree, we are happy to accept the amendment. The authors are therefore Mr Van Nispen and, in the absence of Mrs Van Toorenburg, I assume Mr Van Dam, who is here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u23	That's what I think it is: Judgement Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u24	And then the verdict is "Room." I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Judgment Room. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u25	Thank you. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u26	I actually felt the need to accept the amendment and thus be part of the legislative proposal. Can this also be done in the case of own-initiative proposals? It's possible. The question then is whether there are any objections to this by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u27	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. If there is no objection from the Chamber, this amendment will be accepted. Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u28	No, I have absolutely no objection to that, Mr President. I would even be very grateful for that, and I would like to thank the initiators for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u29	The Van Nispen/Van Toorenburg amendment (Doc. 15) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u30	So for the record, it has to be like this. I'm coming to block 4: divorces with young children. That is also a crucial issue. Because the bill regulates that the maintenance period can be longer...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u31	I see Mr Kerstens running forward, so he gets the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u32	I'll come back to that hardness clause. Moreover, the Labour Party is also pleased with this amendment, because it does something with the concerns we expressed last time, when we said that this hardness clause should not be a case for once in a while, but should really do its job in cases where there is a distressing situation. Now the law also provides for an evaluation. I am curious whether the proposers are as curious as I am about how this hardness clause is going to work out in practice. I realise that it may not be easy to make all this clear, but my group would like some insight. Will what we are all trying to do with the amendment work in practice in this way? Is this hardness clause really going to play a role in cases where that five-year period is unreasonable, given the circumstances? How do the proposers look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u33	I am looking at my fellow Members with an oblique eye, and I assume that the initiators could naturally encourage the evaluation to look in particular at the operation of the hardness clause. I don't hear anyone screaming from the proposers, so I think that's good. I would also like to come to a specific amendment on the duration of the assessment. That evaluation is, of course, under the responsibility of the Minister, but in that respect we can support Mr Kerstens' request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u34	I can only be happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u35	I had already started with block 4, about divorces with young children. Because we have also created an exception in the legislative proposal. In the care of young children under 12 years of age, the maintenance period may be up to 12 years. So it depends on the age of the child. That is also regardless of the distribution of care. The level is determined by the income distribution of the parents concerned. In fact, it's no different now. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked why the age limit in our proposal should be set at 12 years and not, for example, at 13, 14 or 15 years. Mr Van der Staaij also made a comment on this in the first term. We consider 12 years to be justified, because the current system also maintains a maximum maintenance period of 12 years. Apart from the substantive assessment of that consideration, it could theoretically lead to a longer term of alimony. We admit, of course, that every border is arbitrary, but our aim is to reduce the maintenance time. If we assume an age of 13, 14 or 15 years, it would be extended in certain cases. We do not think that is desirable. Mrs Buitenweg had a dialogue with Mrs Van Toorenburg in the same context and assessed the issue from a different perspective. I don't know if her upcoming question is going to be about this, but I'm on the right track, I have the idea. She asked: why is it justified that the maintenance period should be extended to younger children; what is the idea behind it? That is what we have been meeting together on, and we have come to the following answer. The idea behind the exception for young children is twofold. Firstly, the continuing solidarity after marriage. If there are children in play, this solidarity weighs more heavily. Without kids, it's easier to break up and maybe never even see each other again. With children, ex-partners remain forever connected, whether they like it or not. This justifies in itself a longer maintenance period, as Mrs Van der Graaf has said. She is not here now, but I also like to quote her: parents also have a responsibility for each other when marriage fails. Secondly, we are referring to the combination of work and care. Mrs Buitenweg also made an interesting point on this point. We recognise that it can be difficult to combine work and care. If one parent cares for the children and is therefore less easily able to provide income, we understand that. Then we also think it justified that the other parent should pay longer as long as the children are small.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u36	There's been an interruption by Mrs Buitenweg. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u37	I also think it is a complicated subject, because it is simply a fact that it is not entirely fair and that at the moment it is more often women taking care of the children than men. But in the bill as it stands, in my opinion, two legs are hacked. On the one hand, we believe that people should stand on their own feet and have come to the limit that people born after 1970 should stand on their own feet, because the new reality is that people are supposed to do so. At the same time, it maintains that one partner can take much more care of a child. If that is the case, there will be financial consequences later. After all, someone who is twelve years old from the labour market, or fourteen years old if there are two children at stake, obviously has much less earning capacity later. That makes me think that the bill is two-legged.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u38	The fact that parents have to share care of the child with each other does not, of course, mean that one parent no longer participates in the labour market in relation to the other parent. I'll be right back on co-parenting. The practice is, of course, that. At my house, my wife takes more care of our son than I do, because I generally work more days than my wife. That is a choice we have made. That's an individual choice. Anyone can think otherwise. However, I can understand that I can also justify this for myself, even as initiator of the case, that this may have the effect of making a difference in the provision of alimony at the time when the court finds that there is a need and that there is a capacity for maintenance. Then the point of being on two legs. I understand Mrs Buitenweg's remark, but the reality is as it is in the Netherlands. Mr Van der Staaij quotes from an opinion of the Council of State, which actually puts it in black and white. We can find all kinds of things, but the fact is there is. There were also votes from the Chamber to further raise the age limit. I think I can rest assured on behalf of my fellow Members that it was precisely your comments, regardless of our own perception, that we have said that we are not raising the age limit for children, because we also understand very well your position that you must put an end to this at some point. We find 12 years of age a justified age for the children. This means that the period cannot be longer than 12 years, assuming an age of zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u39	Mrs. Buitenweg, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u40	Mr Van der Staaij said: the Council of State says so, but we are still assuming a new reality to be created. Here it is actually used as an argument to defend why that alimony will be twelve years. My group is in favour of it being simply limited to five years in any case and that we strive to do so, not now but in the long term. My question is: do the initiators agree that it is a longer-term goal, that we should therefore also make much more work of combining work and care, but that the aim is to limit alimony to five years in the long term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u41	Let me say this: if you want to achieve that goal, you will have to take a step first. We consider the legislative proposal as it stands to be a responsible step, which we consider to be broadly politically acceptable. I have been allowed to live in this Chamber for almost six and a half years now and have seen a number of family rights closely. I have also learned from that that in family law sometimes you should not take too big a step at once, precisely because it affects everyone, and has to work step by step forward, in a future that we all need to be able to carry on with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u42	An interruption by Mr Van der Staaij. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u43	I also draw from the pieces sent to us by Clara Wichmann, the Association for Woman and Law; not really the great advocates of traditional role patterns, I believe. But they do say: if you look at the age of 12, you obviously assume the implicit assumption that you can participate full-time in the labour market if the last 12 years is. But that's not so easy for single parents. I think that is a very valid point. What is the reaction of the proposers to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u44	We have deliberately chosen to create this exception, regardless of the foundation to which Mr Van der Staaij refers. We have chosen very consciously to put that age at 12 years, because we, also fed by information sent to us from people, parents with young children, simply see that there is a considerable concern attached to it. The older children get, so is our expectation, the more space parents can have to be able to swing their own wings. However, even a child of 15 or 17, or even someone who is already an adult, gets a lot and necessary attention from the parents at the appropriate moments of course. But in that case too, we say: the alimony doesn't have to last that long. So we say that the age limit of 12 years is sufficient as an exception, while at the same time we say that the period for alimony is five years. We believe that this is a justified and justified deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u45	I realize that I am a substitute here in a discussion that has been going on for a long time, but still. I would like to ask the author the following question. He just said, "Every line is debatable." Of course it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u46	Arbitrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u47	Arbitrary. But my colleague, Mr Van Toorenburg, has pointed out that it was precisely that first year of junior year that the consideration was not to go for 12 but to go for 13. I have not yet heard the author's argument about this. You've met, so do you have anything to say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u48	I thought I would answer that by saying that, in theory, this could lead to a longer maintenance period than it is now, so it could go until the 13th year. So the alimony can take 13 years. Then it will be longer than it is now, and we do not think that this is a valid starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u49	That, of course, is not an argument in itself. It's true: if it goes until your 13th, it takes longer. I understand. Only the substantive argument is that the care tasks in that first year of secondary school may be of a different order than when someone is settled in that secondary school. Should I say that you saw that as an insufficient argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u50	No, this has been a very serious argument for us, because we certainly do not want the maintenance period to be longer than it is now. That could be an outcome in the example you mention. In addition, we are looking at it as follows. When a child is 12 years old, it goes to high school and it gets into a different phase of life. That is a phase in which you do not need less attention and care from the parent, but our assessment is that this does not justify an exception for the duration of maintenance, which does not mean that the parent concerned who cares for those children cannot be entitled to alimony. That is still possible, depending on the court, but for a period of five years. By the way, it's been said, this whole bill doesn't say anything about child support, which of course is another chapter. I would like to say a few words about co-parenting, because Mr Raemakers has made a comment on this. If that is the case, or if it is a partner alimony plan, Mr Van Nispen said that there is something similar or at least that can lead to co-parenting, then the situation will often be that the parents have a more equal income. It has not been said that it is, but of course it can be. In any case, the rule of care and the exception is at issue when one of the parents has a caretaker for the child. This can vary in duration and so on during the week and the appointments you make, but in principle the exception applies. Or how that translates into finance, of course, is up to the judge. This depends on income and so on. So that is something we do not want to determine or regulate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u51	Mr Van Nispen has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u52	Not so much because I disagree, but because this is part of the legal history and I think clarity is important on this point, the following. I asked a specific question in the first term about paragraph 3 and now paragraph 4 of Article 157. That's about the exception: the alimony stops when the youngest child is 12. Then I asked the question: what if the child's main residence is not with the alimony holder but with the alimony holder? At that time I made a specific suggestion to supplement the article with the words 'insofar as these children have their main place of residence with the parent entitled to child support'. Do I understand correctly that Mr Van Oosten says that this supplement is not necessary, because in such cases the judge will not allow alimony until the child reaches the age of 12?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u53	It is very good that Mr Van Nispen made this remark, because that gives me the opportunity to... Well, to correct something, I don't want to say, but I didn't say something that I probably should have said because I've already taken the step towards co-parenting right away. The practice, the modern reality is that many parents have co-parenting care for the children. Besides, I think it's desirable, because you're older or you're not, but okay. Well, the situation is that the children live with the child support officer. That's the question you asked. It would be strange if he had to pay more to the child supporter who does not care at all for the young children. So that remark was also taken into account in the legal history along this path. But once again, in the end, that is the case and customization that lies with the judge. From our point of view, we say that if there is care for younger children, care must be given in concrete terms, which is of course the exception: up to the age of 12 years. Then it is up to the court to determine whether the right to alimony translates into an amount. That again depends on the need and the capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u54	Let me take a look at Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u55	I doubt now whether it would be wiser, if you think this is so definite and clear, to make that exception conditional on the payment of alimony up to the age of 12 years and to include that suggestion in the law. What would be against including that clarity in the law? That's an informative question. I'm just really curious if that wouldn't be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u56	Now I assume that Mr Van Nispen is talking about the main residence, to make it clear along that road. That would suggest that you have a main residence... You may be registered somewhere in a municipality, but in the practice of co-parenting................................................................................................................................................... Then you'll have a discussion about the main residence. It's no different than the law is now. The law now also says you have 12 years of child support. We want to preserve this possibility in the case of care for young children. But your question was aimed at something else. Just in traditional situations, the child lives with the mother. The father sees it once a week or something. The father's paying, too. The situation hardly arises, but it may concern both situations if care for children is at issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u57	I am very much affected by Mr Van Oosten's argument to have the broadest possible support. That is also important to me in matters of this kind. However, I still have a question about the two exceptions that are being made. One is the exception for people over 50 years old at the time of entry into force: they are being phased out. It has been said about the people with children that child support can last up to 12 years. No phasing-out is proposed for them. For the history of law, is that something that you expect will eventually happen through the courts?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u58	The law is about to be what it is. The first example you mention, the men and women over 50 years of age, ends at some point because at some point that year is no longer appropriate. The example you mention remains in the law. But we're going to evaluate the law. At least that's the idea. I shall come back to an amendment tabled by Mr Van Nispen to extend the deadline. I can imagine, perhaps, Mrs Buitenweg would like at some point herself to pick up that glove that one thinks, on the basis of that evaluation, that something should also be done about these children, but we are not suggesting this. That exception is for us as long as this law will apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u59	Then I am thinking of tabling a motion to include in that evaluation how it might be coming to an end, given the possible social changes. Then we can always see if that is the time to take some other steps to draw one more consistent line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u60	We're about to face that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u61	We'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u62	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u63	I'm at block five: varia. I come first to the opinion of the Council of State. It was rightly pointed out that we also felt sorry for Mrs Van Toorenburg. Mr. Van Dam, you weren't there last time, but Mrs. Van Toorenburg had taken us into the misery that had hit her. She had studied for five and a half hours on our bill to discover at the end that the proposal, in order to formulate it neutrally, was ultimately narrowed and she should have started at the end. It would have saved her a lot of time. The criticism made by Mrs Van Toorenburg, like Mr Van Nispen, is: is the opinion of the Council of State still useful? Of course, we take that criticism to heart. At the same time, we say that nothing has happened to our legislative proposal but that it has been simplified. The original proposal, which was also included in the legislative proposal, has been a reduction from twelve to five years, including two exceptions. We still do. The difference is that the original proposal, which we introduced so many years ago, changed considerably more, such as the basis for alimony and calculation systems. We've all dropped those cases now. In this respect, we believe that the proposal has been reduced to its core. The Council of State has also given advice on this core. Mr Van Nispen (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Nispen on his excellent report. He pointed out that the current 12-year deadline did not appear to be a maximum deadline, but rather a kind of standard deadline. We share that frustration. That is precisely why we have also tabled this bill. He also proposed that a phasing-out scheme be introduced. It can be imposed on the judge now. The law does not need to be amended as such. We have incorporated Mr Van Nispen's legal comment on the converging provision, for which we thank him in the letter of amendment. We have also laid down in the legislative proposal that the calculation of the need and the ability to carry out this kind of work should be added to the maintenance decisions. This is an idea that was conceived not only by Mr Van Nispen, but also by Mr Raemakers. You both share the credit at that point. Finally, Mr Van Nispen's question is whether we have also considered making arrangements for unmarried people living together with children. That's what I'm gonna have to disappoint him on. No misunderstanding: we, as initiators, understand that the separation of people living together with children can also cause financial problems, but we say that this is outside the scope of this legislative proposal. There is now no legal right to alimony when cohabiting, unmarried partners break up. If you wanted to settle that, a separate bill would be much more obvious. We don't choose to do that. Then I come to the call for assistance in relation to this law, which Mrs Buitenweg, Mr Van Nispen and Mr Van der Staaij have asked for. If the use of assistance would be increased by reducing the maintenance period, it will be visible at the earliest five years after the legislative proposal enters into force. After all, only after the new five-year maintenance period has been completed can the assistance be called upon. Moreover, our expectation is that the latest changes will reduce the use of assistance, because much more account will be taken of the position of alimony beneficiaries over 50. They get a longer maintenance period. I've already said something about going to the AOW age. In this respect, as Mr Raemakers also asked, the principle remains that ex-partners, after divorce, try to provide their own income as much as possible, and in that case there is no need for recourse to assistance at all. None of us has a glass ball, but all in all we believe that a slight increase in assistance over five years is not excluded, but it is not expected to be a dramatic increase. Like you, we are anxiously looking forward to what the Minister will say about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u64	There is another interruption by Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u65	Thank you for this enlightening answer. Very often we see that people quickly start working less hours for a divorce, or stop working as a whole, and that there is, of course, a lot of frustration with the other party. What do the initiators think of that? What more could we do about that, with the change in the law in hand?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u66	That's complicated in the sense that the law is what it is. I can imagine that attorneys would give that a place in divorce proceedings on the one hand, in the petition or on the other hand, in the defence. I can't say much more about it now, but it's not very chic. Then I come to the block Markuszower, because we are approaching the end. We owe him an answer to the point about proportionality and legal certainty. A situation was mentioned in which people have an ongoing 12-year maintenance obligation and, following the entry into force of this bill, go to court to shorten alimony. Let me be honest: I do not think this will have much chance. The draft law does not have retroactive effect. Current maintenance obligations remain. The assessment of a request for amendment will be based on the case law then in force. Is it then proportionate to allow those old alimony obligations to exist, Mr Markuszower asks. We also discussed this, but in the end we could only draw one conclusion: it is no different. This is a consequence of legal certainty, as mentioned by Mr Raemakers. We do not want this law to come into force retroactively, because that would be seriously at odds with the principle of legal certainty. We finally had to draw the conclusion, me too, as initiator: it is what it is, please let us take this step together, a step that has also been advocated by the PVV Group as such. Each individual member of this Chamber may then reconsider what other steps or improvements can be made. Finally, Mr Van Nispen's amendment to item No. 11 on evaluation deadlines. It is proposed that the evaluation should take place after eight instead of five years. We think that is a good amendment. If there is no objection, that can also be taken over. I do not know whether this is the case with amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u67	It works so that you are in the role of legislator, so in that sense it is the same as a minister. I note that there is no objection to this amendment being accepted by Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u68	In doing so, I have reached the end of this contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u69	Not until after I give Mrs Van der Graaf the floor for her interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u70	Thank you for the reaction of the initiators and Mr Van Oosten. I have followed everything, not quite in this room, but I have missed very few words. However, I have noticed that the initiators have not yet answered the question I asked about the foundations in the first period. The current maintenance right is based on two principles. One is the basis of permanent solidarity, or fate. The other is about the reduced earning capacity. The initiators have chosen not to sit on these foundations, but have found their motivation mainly in the reduced earning capacity. I wonder what considerations the initiators now have with regard to this link of fate and constant solidarity. Does it stop after five years or 12 years? How exactly do the initiators look at that? That's an argument I really missed in the bill. I would like a reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u71	That does not change anything at all, other than that the maintenance period is, of course, the essence of this proposal, in a normal course of events, reduced from 12 to 5 years, with exceptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u72	Yes, I understand. The motivation is mainly sought in that maintenance period and the arguments about the reduced earning capacity. But that fate connection... The marriage partners have a responsibility to each other in marriage, but that also requires something for the period after that. That has come back a bit in the debate, especially when there are children at stake. I really wonder how the proposers are looking at this. Does that stop the proposers at some point if they want to include that point, that basis, in their consideration of going back to five years? Did you find any argument in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u73	It is precisely for this reason that we have made the exception we have made. It can, of course, play particularly in the care of young children or if a long-term marriage is "traditional' I would almost say that it has lasted more than fifteen years. If one partner suddenly decides not to want to go on with the other, then of course a lot connection results from the fact that you decided to do that so many years earlier and that you have lasted so many years with each other. Mr. Chairman. I have thus reached the end of the contribution of the initiators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u74	Thank you very much. You went like a spear, I might add. I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs to answer the questions put to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating the initiators for the work they have put into it, as well as their predecessors who have worked on this bill before. They cannot be denied determination, because the bill has a very long history, a very long lead. It dates back to June 2015 and now has three notes of amendment. It is now essentially a question of reducing the duration of partner alimony, starting from not a maximum of 12 years, but a maximum of five years. The cabinet believes that a long maintenance period in itself does not promote the economic independence of most women. It is good if women who have stayed home during marriage to take care of the children make an effort to work within a reasonable period of time in divorce. Otherwise, their chances in the labour market will deteriorate. The proposal takes balanced account of a number of specific groups of women. A longer maintenance period will apply to them. I am not going to repeat all the groups involved. In your Chamber, too, the last added group of women was specifically called for attention. They are also a particular concern for the cabinet, because they are a vulnerable group in the labour market. Mr. Chairman. I don't know how the force field is. I noticed enthusiasm among some in the first round of the debate, but not among everyone. But now that the position of the latter group of women is being met, with the third letter of amendment, the cabinet has no objection to the proposal, considering everything. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the question to the government. Sometimes there's a little overlap with the questions to intitiators, so I'm gonna go through it with a little bigger steps now and then. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Buitenweg, Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Van Nispen asked whether a shorter maintenance period could lead to greater recourse to assistance. As a cabinet, we have looked at the financial consequences of this bill. The answer to that specific question is: yes, that can indeed be done. The possible costs then lie both with the assistance and in the atmosphere of surcharges. Of course, it's always working with assumptions, but the estimated total cost we assume is about 15 million. The amount of assistance is roughly 5 million a year, of course in the long term. In the context of the supplement, a shorter maintenance period can lead to a lower assessment income and higher supplements, with an estimate of around 10 million: about 5 million in the care sector, 3 million in the rent and 2 million in the child-related budget. However, additional income may also be against this, because the partner alimony will be less tax deductible for a long time. A higher employment rate for women, for which the cabinet is also hard on other fronts, can also lead to additional income. On the contrary, we have concluded that the financial consequences of this proposal are negligible. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Nispen has asked me whether I share his concerns that women aged 50 and over who have performed care tasks in a long marriage can not get to work properly after five years of child support. I think that this discussion is no longer entirely relevant because of the letter of amendment that has been tabled, and so I shall leave that question aside. Mrs Van der Graaf then asked about the position of women after a divorce and about their backwardness in the labour market. It follows from the Emancipation Monitor that women's economic independence is increasing, especially in women under 40 years of age. This is clearly not the case with older women. Now, this cabinet is doing an incredible amount of work to improve women's labour market position, especially through fiscal measures from 2019: a reduction in the rate, an increase in the work discount to make work more attractive, higher childcare allowances for working parents. In addition, there is the extension of maternity leave for partners to 6 weeks in 2020. I would also like to draw your attention to the letter from the Minister for Social Affairs of 6 November last, which deals with actions aimed at different groups of women in order to combat their backwardness in the labour market. The proposal takes account of this delay by applying a longer maintenance period to a number of groups of women. Mr Koopmans asked for the clause on the extension of the time limits in force in the proposal. It exists for distressing cases. At the same time, it is not so open as to provide an easy exception. Mr Kerstens asked whether this clause could not lead to legal inequality, because one judge did apply it and the other did not. The proposed extension clause is already in the law. The case-law only allows an extension of the current 12 years if there are serious circumstances involved. In addition, the creditor must make a request to that effect himself. The court may not extend that of its own motion. In view of the strict application now, it is expected that the court will also exercise restraint when it comes to extending the deadline for the own-initiative proposal. I am not so afraid of the risk of legal inequality, because the individual cases will lead and these differences vary from one case to another. Mr Koopmans asked whether I would also like to include in the assessment of the law the current basis of alimony, destiny, partly because he is wondering whether the basis should not be another, namely compensation for the disadvantage in the labour market. I think we should always include all the elements in an evaluation, and I am happy to say so. Mr Raemakers asked how often the judge imposed a shorter maintenance period than the maximum and how he would fix a reasonable period of time. The main rule of the proposal is a maintenance period of half the duration of the marriage, up to a maximum of five years. That goes without saying. On the basis of the proposal and the current law, the court may fix a shorter period than the legal time limit only on a reasoned request and in particular circumstances. The circumstances of the case are leading to the question of which short term is reasonable. For example, the court may take into account the duration of the marriage, the existence of minor children, the income position of the husband, the age, the level of education and the question whether the woman will be able to provide for her own livelihood. Concrete figures on how this is going to work are not kept up by the Court of Justice and are therefore not available. Mr Raemakers also asked whether I can confirm that it is not the intention for partners to work less shortly before a divorce or quit their jobs in order to let the other partner take the fall. That is not the intention. Determining the right to alimony, I can give him, is someone's need: are there insufficient income for livelihood and if so, can such income still be obtained in reasonable terms? If someone can make a living, but if this is left behind, for example by giving up your job immediately in advance, the judge can take this into account by means of a so-called fictitious calculation of income when determining the need. This raises an effective threshold, in my view, against a deliberate reduction in income, for example through part-time work in the face of separation. Furthermore, Mr Raemakers asked whether the alimony calculation rules could be made more interactive and understandable. These are drawn up by judges in the so-called Expert Group on Maintenance Standards. I have now asked this expert group to better unlock this, for example with a clear summary or something on the website with an online module. It has informed me that we are considering how this request can be met. Mr. Chairman. Mr Markuszower asked about the importance of the notion of "proportional" in limiting existing alimony rights. Mr Van Oosten said a few things about this. This comes from the First Protocol to the ECHR, from the article on the right to property. The initiative proposal does not infringe on-going maintenance periods, which does not result in any review under the First Protocol. In fact, the relevance of demand is very low. Mr. Chairman. I had two further opinions on amendments, but they have now been adopted by the initiators. Our advice was actually similar to theirs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u76	Thank God, I guess. There is an interruption by Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u77	Thank you for your answer. That proportionality and this unacceptable legal inequality may have been in the following. If the Initiative Act were to be adopted and entered into force on 1 January 2019, a person could still be sentenced to pay alimony for 12 years on 31 December 2018. The same person would be sentenced to alimony for up to five years on 1 January 2019, a few hours later. Isn't there some legal inequality in that and is that even proportional? That question also lives in the Netherlands. It is perhaps a little more important than the Minister's brief reply. I had also asked for a slightly more extensive motivation. Mr Van Oosten has just gone into it a little more extensively, but I would like to get a little more insight into that understanding, because it could also be relevant in other areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u78	Then I'm gonna answer a little more in-depth. There is always a difference between what is valid under the old law and what is valid under the new law. That is also part of a political decision. This does not affect proportionality. I understood Mr Markuszower's question in such a way that he asked: how proportional would it be if you violated existing alimony rights if you reduced them? Then it is relevant to look at the First Protocol to the ECHR in which the right to property is secured. Infringements are possible on that property and on those rights if provided for by law, in the public interest and if proportionate. The same applies to alimony rights. However, since this initiative proposal does not infringe on-going maintenance periods, I do not think that this review of the First Protocol is relevant. If it had been otherwise, it would seem more difficult to justify under the ECHR, because then you are violating current rights. But that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u79	I see the Minister has come to the end of his input. I think there is another question from Mrs Buitenweg about an investigation and a roadmap. I hear Mrs Buitenweg say that she will table a motion on this. I think we would have passed the question on to the Minister, so perhaps he could respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u80	The question is what this research adds to the research that is already under way. Quite a lot is being done in the fields of emancipation, labour and care policies, especially to increase the participation of women. In addition, there is a fairly large interdepartmental investigation into the background and causes of part-time work. Its completion is envisaged in the summer of 2019. You can also expect a cabinet response to that. So, to be honest, I think there's a lot in there already. If that is not the case, then perhaps this is the time for Mrs Buitenweg to ask for a follow-up study.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u81	So you are actually asking Mrs Buitenweg to hold her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u82	That's a whole new procedure. I'm announcing that I'm holding my motion. No, that's not true! Of course, a lot is being done. I'm aware of that, too. It is often the case that these are things that the cabinet also likes, that it is therefore also investigating them. One of the problems with childcare, for example, is that there must be much more of these child centres. That's a lot to ask for. Children can then find a combination of a school and after-school care much easier until later in a good and fun way. I know that the cabinet does not like that at all, so there are no initiatives at all in this area either. That's just an example. What I just want is for us to really map out what's needed. Some will not be politically desirable for a particular cabinet, but then we will know what kind of steps could be taken. I really think that's what it takes to get some steps forward in overcoming inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u83	It doesn't change my point of view. We have done a great deal, and we will continue to monitor it. We'll see how that works out. We're looking at what determines part-time work. I can very well imagine that child care and its availability and cost can be one of the reasons for this, but let us wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u84	May I ask the Minister: are there any things the Minister thinks "well, that would be helpful, but we haven't done that yet"? Or is the cabinet doing everything right in all areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u85	I do not rule out the fact that there are even things this cabinet has not thought about. So that's not the point either. My point is that there is already an investigation going on, which I think is going to answer a very large part of your questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u86	Finally, I would like to say that it is precisely for this reason that there may also be things that the Minister and the Cabinet have not thought about and that I want them too, and not just things that the Cabinet has now had examined because it is the cabinet that is coming out. I would also like to see matters raised that may not have been considered by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u87	I'm gonna get into that anyway. There is a wide and large interdepartmental investigation into the question: what explains the high degree of part-time work in the Netherlands? This concerns not only women, but also men. We're part-time world champions. That's gonna come from somewhere. We do not say as a cabinet in the front: you can only come up with things that we like. It is an open question as to what that part-time work explains. If you want more hours to be worked, on both sides, that would be very good for Dutch labour productivity. What should we do? Then we do not impose taboos on our people when it comes to coming up with ideas and solutions. In other words, I believe that much of what Mrs Buitenweg is looking for is already covered by this research.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u88	All kinds of things have already been proposed, such as integrated child centres. For example, the cabinet doesn't want to do that. But it is also about the question: how do you bade more stereotypes and prejudices? There are several things you can think about, because that ideal world, which we do assume in this bill, is not there. We are taking far-reaching measures in terms of the financial security of people, in the fictional assumption that equality between men and women is now practice, while we know that it is not yet the case in practice. Surely it is our duty to think about how we can promote this more?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u89	Yes. We should definitely look at that. There may be things coming out of the research that we say: we are excited about, but we are less enthusiastic about certain things. At the same time, I hear Mrs Buitenweg mention a number of things that I wonder what the contribution is. Of course, Mrs Buitenweg has some kind of political colouring in it. She likes to see certain things happen and under the guise of this bill she tries to put that on the board. Let us look at what explains the high degree of part-time work in the Netherlands, which in part also has its impact on women's economic independence. This will be a major challenge for the coming decades in the Netherlands, including with the ageing population and you name it all. Economic independence and labour productivity in the Netherlands: how can we ensure that we can continue to live the pleasant life that we all live in the future? That's what this investigation is gonna say meaningful things about, and then I don't care what comes out of that investigation. Maybe we should do something fiscal, with shelter, with care; make it up. Then we have a political debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u90	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term. Nine speakers came forward for the second term. I propose a two-minute speaking time. A lot of questions have been exchanged. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u91	Thank you, Madam President. I thought we were gonna have a short break first, but I'm gonna try it like this. First of all, I would like to thank very much the authors of the initiative proposal, of course for all their work, but also for seeking dialogue and, in fact, the permanent filing of the proposals. Because it is indeed important that we do it carefully and that it has broad support. It is an incredibly important subject, which also unleashes a lot of emotions on people. We are just talking about it quite rationally here, but you are dealing with such a subject when you are also often personally in a deep crisis, very vulnerable, you are worried about the future and you are often in a great deal of grief. Then it is very important that the law is well organized. For the record, we have said before that it is about partner alimony and not about the children, because for children you are and will always be responsible as a parent. But how long will partner alimony last than that constant solidarity we're talking about? And I see that solidarity as something to give people time to put their lives back on the road and support each other in it, so that you can live your own life again. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, that is five years. That is also something I want to do, but I do see the broad desire to deal with it a little more quietly. That is why I did not vote for an amendment, I think that is not the right way forward, but for a motion. I hope to get you into that. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the maintenance period is, in principle, limited to five years unless circumstances arise requiring the application of the hardness clause or unless otherwise regulated by law, as for parents with younger children;]] [[calls on the Government to have explicit consideration of the extent to which the five years are not exceeded in practice despite the possibility offered by the law for this purpose and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34231-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u92	I will look at the wording very carefully, because I changed the motion a little during the debate, also in view of the response I received here. My intention is to understand how the practice is actually going to work out and how it is going to control itself. I can imagine that it is going more and more towards the five years and then, as I said, we can always see how we are going to deal with this. I thought we'd always have more time with law enforcement than usual.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u93	That's right. It is always a third of the time in the first period, but if there is a lot of exchange, then the directive is two minutes. But if you need more time, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u94	I'm going to make one more motion, knowing that the Secretary of Law has asked me to hold him or else... I'm gonna file the motion anyway. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas care tasks and participation in the labour market are still unevenly distributed between men and women;]] [[Whereas this has an impact on the financial situation of people in the event of divorce;]] [[calls on the Government to examine in detail the obstacles to this, to make proposals on how obstacles can be removed and to inform the Court of Justice;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34321-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u95	For the sake of clarity, it is not a question of exhausting all kinds of obstacles being put in place. I am concerned that we simply have a good picture of each other and then a number of proposals can be made by this cabinet. I think it's working hard on that, too, because I can see that too. However, I think it is useful to have as broad a map as possible, so that it is also a continuous process to further promote equality between men and women. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u96	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u97	Mr. Chairman. Before I give my compliments, I'm going to say a few words about the substance of this bill. In spite of all my difficult questions and the criticism I have made in the first term, I have said, even in the first term, that we are well aware of the dissatisfaction with the present twelve-year term. We have also had this discussion before, because the maximum period of 12 years had become a standard period and the question was whether this was ever meant to be. In essence, therefore, it is a good idea to do something about it, provided that the right exceptions have been found and formulated. In the end, I will also advise my group to vote in favour of this proposal, especially since it has improved considerably over time. I just think it's real. In the course of time there has been a thorough renovation. I think it's really gone very well. There's been a really good listen, too. That is not a negative point, but a very positive one. There has been an attempt to deal with the suggestions and constructive criticism from the Chamber. So we've been more and more in agreement. I would almost like to say that this is the way it can be done, Minister. But I almost do, so not quite. In the first term I already complimented you for adding the calculations of needs and carrying capacity. That third letter of amendment also improves on two important points, first of all that of the AOW, which we discussed. The maintenance obligation does not therefore stop at the AOW age by the maintenance agent. The other point is that the critical question is therefore addressed as to what the consequences are for the divorced people among the 50-plussers who have not worked for some time and have to return to the labour market. I think it is a good thing that there is more attention to that now, although I am not entirely reassured on that point. A temporary measure has been chosen. The answer to the question of Mr Van der Staaij, among others, why this temporaryity was real was that people who are going to divorce already realize what is to be expected during the marriage. I've been wondering, because I think it's just a question of whether it is. Do you really think during your wonderful marriage: by now, the law has changed so that I'm going to divide care tasks differently, because I'm going to get shorter partner alimony, so I maintain my career more and take less care tasks on me? I really do wonder, because there is still a very big difference in the labour market. You can think that's undesirable and you can't be happy about it. And we can express the intention to do something about that, but it's just social reality. I guess it hasn't changed in seven years. Having said that, I had prepared myself thoroughly for a heated discussion on the amendment on the hardness clause. It won't be necessary anymore. I shall give an additional example for the Acts, because I have been reminded of this from the legal point of view. It is an example where such a harsh clause could be seen: the group of women who are already of the AOW age and do not or only partially report in the pension. I believe that Mr Van Oosten has already said something about this. Retirement can be ruled out by prenup. If this has happened or if there is not much pension during marriage, for example, the woman is left alone with AOW, while the man may have more carrying capacity and can pay longer than five years. This seems to me to be an example of such an amendment on the hardness clause. Then the judge can correct something if necessary. I am referring now to the amendment tabled by Mrs Van Toorenburg, Mrs Van Toorenburg, and I, which has been accepted. The same applies to the amendment in which the evaluation provision is longer. Most of the time, I want a little quicker evaluation, but all right, this is about the alimony period that's going to be five years. That is why it seems difficult to see the consequences after five years. These consequences do not manifest until later. Thank you also for accepting the amendment on the slightly longer evaluation period than usual. Once again, many thanks to the expert support, to the initiator and to the minister for the advice. It may be very premature to say, but I wish you every success in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u98	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Gent of the VVD, who has been succeeded by his colleague Koopmans as a spokesperson for family law. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u99	Indeed, rather than Mr Koopmans, which has grown in length and breadth, I fully agree with his opinion. Mr Van Dam already referred to the raider. I also saw in the first term, so in the previous treatment, that Mr Kerstens was talking about the World Cup. So it also feels as if I, while the game is already almost played, can fill in for a while. That's okay at all, because it's a very interesting game. We too can live very much with the results. I have the feeling that a lot has been listened to and that the law has been adapted several times. I also think that it now has a very broad support. I think that's very good. I would therefore like to congratulate the initiators. I want to end with an optimistic note; that of course fits a bit with the VVD. I read that Mr Kerstens had indeed referred to the World Cup football, and I thought to myself: is this legal treatment so old? But then it dawned on me. Of course, it was the women's World Cup football. I think that's a bit of an illustration, too. I myself come from education and we see an enormous increase in women's education. The women of the youngest generation are now better educated than the men. In the government, I've even understood, they already have higher salaries. So I am very optimistic about the future and I think it is very good that this law is indeed based on that new social reality. I'm optimistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u100	Well, then you'd say "there can be nothing wrong with that," but Mrs Buitenweg still has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u101	I am also trying to be very constructive, but this creates some irritation. Because optimistic, yes, and indeed there are many more women who study much more. But the point is that, just when children come, it is often the case that the woman stays at home. This has partly to do with what women want, but that too often has to do with worn-in role patterns in society, because we are all children of our time. So I sometimes think that the optimism of the VVD should not lead to some sort of Veronica liberalism, without thinking about why we are also children of our culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u102	I also read that you said that to Mr Koopmans, 'Veronicaliberalism'. I never actually look at Veronica. What I just want to report is this. If you look at the youngest generation, and I am not, of course, talking about the old generation, which I believe has now been taken into account by all the changes in the law. I am indeed optimistic. They are highly educated, they often start better than men now, for example in the government. I am also very optimistic about sharing care tasks, which is a very important issue. We also see that improvements are being made, especially in the young generation. Maybe it doesn't go as hard as everyone would wish, but again, I look forward to that with confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u103	Thank you. Mrs. Buitenweg, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u104	I'm optimistic, too. It's heading in the right direction, but I don't think we should be so frivolous to think it's going to happen by itself. It is not just a question of women getting more education or having higher jobs. Men also need to take care of themselves. I am a little optimistic about that, but we must continue to pull it very hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u105	Thank you. I didn't really hear a question, but more of a call to society, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u106	Lightness is never good, and I don't like being a real liberal either, but again, I have every confidence in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u107	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kerstens of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u108	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Last time it was about the men's football World Cup, but perhaps Mr Van Gent replaced it because we didn't participate at all in Russia this year. Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, I would like to thank the authors, in the person of Mr Van Oosten, but also the Minister, for answering the questions that have been put. The bill that we are discussing again today, and which the Labour Party is one of the initiators, makes an exception to the shorter maintenance duration proposed by the proposers if there are young children or if the partner who is going to receive alimony is no longer the youngest, so to speak. That's good. That's what I said last time. In my contribution last time, I asked for particular attention to be paid to cases where neither of the two just described situations is discussed, but you can see that, unfortunately, after five years, it is not possible to provide for one's own livelihood. I have also mentioned the example of the group of older women's opportunities in the labour market, because they have always looked after the children or obtained a diploma for training which today's labour market no longer fits in with. Women who are at the same time more than ten years away from the AOW age, which was mentioned in the original legislative proposal. We don't want to condemn these women to welfare. In this context, I also discussed the hardness clause provided for in the legislative proposal, which gives the court an opportunity to provide customised services and thus, where appropriate, to fix a longer maintenance period. It is good to see that there are adjustments to these two points. The fact that the applicants now pay particular attention to the group referred to above, in order to ensure that the period of entitlement to alimony is more closely linked to their situation. And the Labour Party is satisfied that an amendment that has been accepted is proposed to give the hardness clause a little more body. Just like the fact that an evaluation of the law is foreseen after five years. Following an interruption from me, we just exchanged the view that it specifically looked at the functioning of that hardness clause in practice. It must do what it is intended to do: to provide tailor-made services in distressing cases. I will conclude with the wish that the legislative proposal when we vote on it, which is next week, I think it will be possible to count on a fine majority here in this Chamber. In advance of that, I wish the proposers a great deal of success across the street if they are going to convince the colleagues of the First Chamber of the usefulness and necessity of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u109	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Dam of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u110	Mr. Chairman. If you get on the field the last minute of the game and score a goal, everyone will forget that you've only played the last minute. That is a bit my ambition in this contribution. I must say that it is worth all the compliments that we have listened to the rather fundamental criticism that has been voiced here in the Chamber about the initiative legislative proposal. I really think it is worth complimenting that the objections have been listened to in this way. Whether it meets our concerns enough, I am afraid I cannot say yet. We will certainly be discussing this in the group next Tuesday. I have to tell you that sometimes today I had the feeling that I was in a discussion about, if I may use the metaphor, how you grow grass. In a way, I have the idea that there is being pulled on the grass here to grow it with all kinds of expectations and ambitions about how emancipation is going to develop over the next few years, sometimes also ignoring the fact that there are also people in this society who make choices in which the division of roles is so that, for example, women stay at home to take care of the children. It will not be surprising that in the political movement I represent, these kinds of movements can count on sympathy more than perhaps in other political movements. What are matters that play a role for us? That is the point that my colleague, Mr Van Toorenburg, has raised about the seventh grade. That may sound like a detail, but it weighs heavily on us. Another point is the somewhat optimistic idea of people over 50 years of age who are expected to participate in the labour market at some point, especially after the seven-year transition period. Another point that still plays a role is the increase in the AOW age. It's changing. It's gonna be higher in the next few years. I have heard the authors say that it is known over time that you can take account of that new law. That is precisely where there will be a great deal of uncertainty in people. I think that many people are already unclear about exactly when they are going to receive AOW and how that shifts. On this point in particular, I should like to have an answer from the authors in the second period. Locking up. Appreciate the way in which this initiative proposal has been handled. We are going to have a very detailed discussion next Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u111	Thank you. There is an interruption or a question from Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u112	It's not so much that the playing time is now suddenly extended, but I just realized that when I was talking, I was talking about an evaluation after five years. That's eight years. I realize that very well, and I think it is good to include it in the Acts at least as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u113	Thank you for this correction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u114	Yes, thank you for this interruption. Very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u115	That's how we deal with each other here, yeah. I call Mr Raemakers of D66 to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u116	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Thank you to the initiators and also to the Minister for reply. This initiative has a long run. Since 2012, people have been working on it. If the House votes for it next week, and also the First Chamber of course, it is the intention that the partner alimony should go from twelve to five years, subject to some exceptions. In my first term I talked about three important principles for D66: shorter, fairer and simpler. I'm going to pass those three principles for a moment. First of all, shorter. The core of this bill is that the maintenance period goes from twelve to five years. This does not apply, for example, when you have children under 12 years of age. I also think it is very good to hear from the initiators that you do not automatically receive alimony for 12 years if you have young children. Also factors such as the age of the young child, that partner alimony plan and also the co-parenting I asked for are indeed important for the duration of the alimony. Thank you for that clarification. I come to the aspect of "fairer." I said in the first period that a shorter period is more honest in itself. I am also pleased that the initiators have made an additional change to the letters of amendment, taking extra account of those people over 50 years of age. I think that is also good for the level of justice. Finally, the "simpler" aspect. It is also simpler, because the calculation is now made available at the same time. That, I think, is also very important. With this bill, it's clear again. For example, these principles of alimony law will look nicely in the law: simpler, more transparent, fairer. So I would like to thank the initiators for their contribution to a future-proof system of partner alimony. Hopefully it will be shorter, fairer and simpler. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u117	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Markuszower of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for answering the questions by the initiators and the Minister. Thank you very much for all the time and effort they have put into this bill. In the first period, I asked two questions in particular. What are the initiators looking at procedures that may be initiated by people who have previously determined the maximum maintenance duration of 12 years of partner alimony? And the second question: how do the initiators and also the minister view the concept of 'proportional'? The answers have been given. At least I understood them. And I think I can live with it, too, and I think I'm gonna have to. There was even a block dedicated to me, I understand. Then you have to go into this room or worry, or say thank you again. I think I'm gonna worry about it. In the first term, I have also said that my group itself tabled an own-initiative proposal in 2012 to shorten the period for alimony to the ex-partner from 12 years to 5 years. The proposal now before us is about to do the same. I will therefore give my group a positive opinion on this. And I wish you all a good weekend.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u119	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the initiators and the Minister for Legal Protection for their reply. Many changes have been made to this bill over time. In particular, we have also discussed today the third letter of amendment. I think that is the strength of this legislative process on the one hand. There is a constant response to concerns raised and reservations expressed. On the other hand, however, I believe that this is, in a sense, the weakness of the legislative proposal. If you're wondering if you have any idea what the effects are in practice, you should get all the different changes working on you. That is also a point that we got back from legal practice. Mr. Chairman. Again, I appreciate the changes that have been made. In general, they are also heading in our direction. However, I fear that the gap between the legislative proposal and the SGP remains too large. For a moment I thought, "Aren't I gonna interrupt the party when one after the other says that this bill is being supported?" On the other hand, however, it is like those motions that are adopted unanimously. Those aren't always the most eye-catching motions. On the contrary, some resistance can give some extra shine to victory; so it can be. If I may still mention the main concerns of my group, it is basically that we consider the legislative proposal to be a little too paternalistic or too womanly. I am also supported in this by what has been brought forward by the Association for Women and Law. This association says: optimism is good, but isn't it naive optimism if you assume that in future all women, including those with children, will ensure that they work full-time? According to the association, the reality is that this is not the case, and that a lot of women and young girls do not want this either. If they have a family, they prefer a part-time job. My group believes that we should not impose a standard on this issue, but that it is the freedom of families to make their own choices. The law should not be binding, but should actually be following. At the heart of the matter is the limitation to five years, which can also be negative, so that, as Mrs Vledder said at the meeting on the proposal for a regulation on the revision of partner alimony, the bill can, in practice, be passed on unilaterally to women. That is the starting point, which is the reason for my group to recommend that we do not support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u121	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u122	Thank you, Madam President. I too would like to thank the authors of the bill and their supporters very much for the work they have done and also for the way in which they have addressed the questions we have asked in the first term. I also note with colleagues that a lot of changes have been made to the legislative proposal. The last amendment, concerning the hardness clause introduced by Mr Van Nispen, was even taken up during the debate. I think that's very important. This also responds to the concerns expressed about, in particular, the group of child support recipients, mostly women aged 50 and over. For them too, a step has now been taken. Whether these changes will be sufficient for my group will be discussed at our group meeting on Tuesday. One of the key issues for the Christian Union is the continuing solidarity between the partners within a marriage, whereby people are free to make choices themselves in combining work with care for children or care for relatives, but that the choices made by people at this point during their marriage also brings together a responsibility when marriage is broken. How long and how far does that go next, you can differ on that, but that is very important to us. Another concern that we have is that the proposers are based on a wish that is actually also an assumption that, shortly after the end of the marriage, the alimony-holder would be able to return to his own livelihood. This has been raised several times in the debate, but we have also been well pushed into the facts by the Dutch Women's Council and the Clara Wichman Institute. The emancipation note of our own minister also shows that the social reality in this area is still different. Whether that will be very different in a short time is only very much the question. I can count, too. The majority for this proposal no longer depends on the support of the Christian Union, I have counted. That is why I believe that the bill will be adopted, at least, I accept it now. In any case, I wish the proposers every success in the follow-up if they try to convince the First Chamber of this step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u123	Thank you. Mr Van Oosten, on behalf of the authors, has indicated that he can reply immediately. I give the floor to Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u124	Yes, and that right away is, of course, thanks again to that excellent support that you find behind us. At the start of this debate, you have already mentioned the names as President, and I have added two more names, but it can only be that in this second term I also mention three other names. Those are actually the original initiators of the revision of partner alimony. Those are three former colleagues from our groups. Of the VVD was that Mr.Ard van der Steur you all remember him from D66 Magda Berndsen and from the PvdA Jeroen Recourt. I have no doubt that they will listen in, either online or otherwise, and will follow with great interest what will eventually become the end result of their baby. I will then pass on the introduction of the various colleagues in the second term after proper consultation with my colleagues. Mrs Buitenweg, thank you very much for your appreciation. We leave the decision on the motions to the Minister. Mr Van Nispen, on behalf of his group, the SP, has once again stressed that he has some difficulty with the argument put forward by the initiators for this temporary character through me. I'm afraid I can't add much more argument to what I've already given. Unfortunately, you will have to do so, I can only see. Then I come to Mr Van Gent. Mr Van Gent's optimism is not only emanating from him; it has also reached the initiators. We're happy about it. Mr Kerstens, thank you for your support. To Mr Van Dam, and of course to Mrs Van der Graaf, I would say that on Tuesday we will be looking at your two political groups in anticipation of what is to come from them. We hope, of course, that the proposal as we lay it down can be supported, precisely because we attach so much importance to it that a change in family law, which may ultimately affect every Dutch citizen, can be supported as widely as possible by society and thus by the representatives of that society. But we're anxious to wait in that regard. In the direction of Mr Raemakers of D66 it is perhaps good that I correct one thing; that will undoubtedly be my fault. If there is concern for young children, there can be that exception in the legislative proposal as we put it down, unless there is the situation that I have discussed in detail with Mr Van Nispen, where it is clear that only one of the two parents really takes care of the children. Then, and that's actually what the judge standard does, the judge will of course look critically at the income distribution et cetera. The distribution of care may also play a role in this, but we consider it important, as it is now, that care for young children up to the age of 12 may also take up to 12 years of child support. The question as to whether this will be achieved is then up to the judge, who looks at the income position and so on. Mr. Markuszower of the PVV, thank you very much for your appreciation. And it is also true: your former colleague from the PVV Group has put forward a similar idea. We have filled that in a slightly different way, but it has strengthened us that this proposal, as we have put it, has been able to count on a somewhat broader feeling from this Chamber from the outset, because your group, the PVV, has also expressed similar statements and views. Finally, Mr Van der Staaij. There is one certainty of the SGP, it seems: you are... I'm being souffled, but I can't understand it. Well, that affects Mrs. Chicken more than I do! I just wanted to say in the direction of the SGP that, of course, we find it terribly unfortunate that you will not support the law, as it seems. But we have also listened to you very carefully: the fact that your support will not be forthcoming will only give the law more shine. That's valuable, too. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u125	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u126	Mr President, thank you. When I look at the content of the motions, it is true that I am giving advice on this on behalf of the cabinet. The first is Mrs Buitenweg's. It requests that an element be included in the evaluation. I have no objection to that and can leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then there is the second motion, including Mrs Buitenweg's. It's about the discussion we just had about the investigation. Now that I've read the motion and I've got it in front of me, I'm only getting a little stronger in my opinion that we're already gonna do this. If we look at the causes of part-time work... You call it obstacles, but that's almost synonymous. Perhaps you will be prepared to hold your motion until the summer of 2019, as the investigation will be completed. Then you can see if the obstacles have been taken into account. If you do not think that is the case, you can always apply for a follow-up study. Otherwise, I'm inclined to dissuade the motion because I'm afraid we're going to do a lot of double-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u127	Let me look at Mrs Buitenweg: is she prepared to hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u128	I just have the question, Madam President, whether the research is only part-time. Or is it also the question of how to ensure that men and women are in a position to share equally work and care?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u129	In my view, it's broader, but then I'm on a bit of slippery ice because this is the terrain of one of my colleagues. If you want to be sure, I will tell you that before the vote you will receive a short note from me, or indeed that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u130	That's fine. I'll wait and see. If it's all right, I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u131	And if the motion isn't stopped, you're gonna betray the motion, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u132	Yes. Mr. Chairman. Then I should like to congratulate the initiators, and I should also like to say that you should always be careful about the votes, but if I have heard the first reactions in this way, I should like to congratulate you a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u133	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-06-tweedekamer-11.u134	We're going to vote next Tuesday on the bill and the motions filed. I thank the initiators and their support. It's always special, isn't it? It's an initiative law. I would, of course, like to thank the Minister and his support and the Members of Parliament.
