ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the call for companies to be better protected from takeovers. I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, as well as the MPs and viewers at home. Eight speakers have come forward. Every speaker has three minutes' speaking time. I suggest we allow two interruptions in two. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For five years, we've been talking about better protection against corporate takeovers, but nothing's happened yet. All options of former Minister Kamp are now off the table because of legal obstacles. The only idea left is to extend the existing period of reflection by 70 days when a shareholder wants to enforce a major strategic change of course, but there are legal doubts about this too. The cabinet wants advice from the Council of State before it drafts a concrete legislative proposal. So that's all gonna take a while. But the world doesn't stand still. Last year, China invested five times as much in European companies as the other way around. Even the Secretary-General of the Ministry calls for greater reciprocity in the area of business protection. But in concrete terms, the Netherlands is not doing anything. Last week I spoke to the rapporteur of the European Parliament about a committee proposal aimed at harmonising the screening of foreign direct investment in Europe. The rapporteur, Mr Reinhard Bütikofer, referred to this as 'the Netherlands'. Our country seems to prefer to raise legal barriers to better protection than to reduce them. The result is that there is a lot of fuss. We've seen that recently...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mrs van den Berg is standing by the interrupting microphone, but please continue with your point for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u4	... around Unilever and around AkzoNobel. In that case, it is possible to exclude industry associates, but crucial business lines are sold, in this case to private equity funds, such as Carlyle. It is then to wait and see what it means for the maintenance of real economic activities, knowledge and employment in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u5	This is a beautiful natural moment. Mrs Van den Berg is interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u6	I do not know exactly how Mr Van der Lee means it when he uses the word 'the Netherlands', but I would like to remind him that at least the CDA delegation in Europe has even made proposals to change the word'may' to'shall'. In other words, one is obliged to do this check. So I'd like Mr. Van der Lee to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u7	I'd love to. I am also very pleased that the CDA is aware of this in the European Parliament, but the CDA, represented in this government, has not yet managed to persuade the Dutch Government to take action. I hope that Mrs van den Berg will join me in calling on the government to take action, because these are crucial interests for Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u8	Maybe I am taking a bit of an advance on my input now, but we think that the letter from Minister Wiebes clearly shows the points of action that are now being taken. So at least we have a different view on the explanation of the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u9	Finally, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u10	That's what I suspected. So I'm going to go back to my speech. Perhaps I can still convince Mr Van den Berg. You have to understand me, Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks sees the obvious benefits of a free market. Corporate takeovers are part of this and can also be very healthy, but corporate takeovers are not an end in themselves. Core companies from our ecosystems are what we call them today, which must have an owner who has an eye for the long term and the impact on our society as a whole. This is crucial, not only for our vital infrastructure, but certainly also for knowledge companies that determine the Dutch economy and our innovative strength. The government lacks a clear strategic vision on this. We leave it to the free hand of the world market and perhaps even later on by a state-owned company from China. It is important to be able to protect certain companies better, not just from the point of view of public order and security. It is also crucial for our innovative capacity, employment and our capacity to solve major societal issues, such as the issue of energy transition. Is the Minister prepared to develop a strategic vision along these lines? Unfortunately, the Court has not yet received an analysis of whether takeovers in sectors with a vital process can lead to social disruption and thus pose a threat to national security. This analysis is almost complete. Can the Minister tell us what the main conclusions are and when they become public? Finally, I mentioned the EU proposal to harmonise screening mechanisms. This will make it possible to assess whether investment and takeovers are detrimental to public order and security, but also to European projects. Think of vital infrastructure, critical raw materials and access to classified information. Such a screening mechanism has already been implemented in many countries. I hope that the Minister will do the same in the Netherlands and that he will not oppose harmonization policy on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u11	I'd like to find out where GroenLinks is. You rightly mention Europe. An EU-China Bilateral Investment Treaty is now being discussed. These are things in which Europe is working together. You ask the Minister to join us. That's great. At the same time, you want the Minister to intervene with NXP and in some way introduce new Dutch rules. You call that'strategic sectors'. What exactly would GroenLinks do if you were here as a minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u12	Thank you for that question. I would also introduce a screening mechanism in the Netherlands, as half of the Member States have done in the meantime. This allows you to look at all management investments in Dutch companies and see whether certain interests are at stake there. Then it is not just a matter of vital interests for our infrastructure, because we are quite rightly already working on this. It is also a question of high-tech knowledge that we need to deal with major societal issues such as the energy transition, the further digitisation and the roll-out of 5G. It is important that we have that knowledge in our house. If we want to be a frontrunner in photonics and quantum mechanics, we must prevent them from being bought too easily by a state-owned company from China. At present, we do not have the means to do anything about it. Other Member States have screening options. This is now being harmonised at European level. There is even talk that the European Union itself has a role to play in this. That is good, but we, as the Netherlands, must do something ourselves. I am not saying that it should be used every time, but we must have the instruments in the house.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u13	Mr Paternotte, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u14	In this particular case, the state-owned company from China is in the picture. An all too easy takeover, I don't think you can mention the proposed acquisition of NXP, if there are enough shareholders to be found. In this particular case, would you say that the Minister should block it if he had the instruments to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u15	No, that's not what I'd say in advance. However, I do think that this takeover shows that it is very necessary for us to have the discussion. We've been talking for five years since Carlos Slim tried to take over KPN. We haven't done anything yet and the world isn't standing still. Other countries do act. I am not in favour of extreme protectionism either, but you can see that other countries are moving. If we don't protect ourselves, if interest rates are low and our companies are capitalized, they're all candidates for takeovers. This is a risk of losing essentials.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u16	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Moorlag of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u17	Mr. Chairman. Last year, the Labour Party was very pleased after the debate on the letter from Minister Kamp in which he wanted to introduce a number of regulatory instruments to make takeovers not too easy. As we say in Groningen, this should not happen between soups and potatoes for certain types of farms. The Labour Party very much welcomed a period of reflection of a year. It was also a remarkable letter, because it came from a outgoing minister who announced that he would come up with a new law. It was going to happen with great speed. Mr Van der Lee has already pointed out that we are now almost a year ahead and that the debate has been going on for at least five years. Where are we now? I refer to the letter which was separated by the Minister on 29 March: I had to go through it. I sometimes describe the language in the letter as semolina. Griesmeel has the quality that it fills very well, but that it is extremely difficult to define exactly how it tastes. I could, so to speak, discover neither creak nor taste in that letter and every speed seems to have disappeared. The Labour Party is disappointed about that. While it was announced in December that the draft law would be brought into proceedings for the first quarter of the year, the letter of 29 March states that the Council of State will first be consulted on European legal aspects. Well, Mr. Chairman, with the greatest agility of spirit, I can't understand that. A year ago it could have been thought that you might have to look at these European legal aspects. And a sense of urgency is no longer apparent from that letter. I'm grabbing back to Minister Kamp's letter. Last year, he reported that he wanted to see if the instrument of engaging the Business Chamber as actions of shareholders would be in conflict with the company's interests. In the last letter, I don't read about it anymore. Priority would be given to the completion of the ex ante analyses of the vital sectors by NCTV and the specialised departments. That would happen in the first quarter, but it is now being moved back to the middle of this year. My first question to the Minister is whether he still supports the letter sent to his predecessor last year. Is he, apart from the obstacles that may exist, committed to a period of reflection? And does he want to bring about the momentum shown by his predecessor? Mr President, concluding. In Groningen we know the proverb "empty baking, grumpy swimming" and there is every reason to grunt here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u18	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Veldman of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u19	Mr. Chairman. The VVD is a strong supporter of an open economy with, of course, a good locational environment. It is beneficial for the Dutch economy, for our employment and therefore for our prosperity that we can invest here in the Netherlands from abroad. The Netherlands is an important recipient of investment: no less than 773 billion was invested in the Netherlands by foreign investors in 2016. These investments, of course, also include the phenomenon of corporate takeovers. Dutch companies take over companies abroad and vice versa. There's nothing wrong with that on its own. However, this does not mean that we are not happy with the protection measures that exist to combat hostile takeovers, for example. Precisely these protection measures, the measures we know, ensure that companies like Unilever have chosen to establish their headquarters in the Netherlands. And that's good for our economy. There's a lot to be done. Mr. Chairman. An open economy does require a level playing field. The VVD is therefore in favour of a global level playing field in the area of takeovers. Dutch and European companies should not be hampered by foreign regulations when taking over non-European companies if that does not happen vice versa. According to the VVD, economic open borders and a fair level playing field must go hand in hand. It is right that the Prime Minister has brought this to the attention of China again in recent days, because unfortunately there is not always a level playing field. What is the situation with regard to the EU's discussions in this area, for example, I would ask the Minister. What progress is he seeing? Mr. Chairman. An open economy with the ability to invest and take over does not mean that we should not care for sectors of national vital importance. The Minister is preparing an ex ante analysis to identify the risks to national security. What is the situation with that? The question is to the Minister. Does he already have an idea and what measures does he see for himself to protect vital sectors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u20	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u21	Liberal parties, and of course the VVD, often talk about that level playing field. Only, of course, you can achieve that level playing field in different ways. We find time and time again that Dutch companies abroad do not enjoy the same benefits as foreign companies here. Let me give you an example: we buy Chinese buses here, but in China VDL cannot sell its buses to the Chinese government. Can such a level playing field be achieved by simply purchasing Dutch buses here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u22	Mr. Chairman. Where the choice is made to buy buses, this is especially the case for public authorities and for companies themselves, a number of conditions and rules are laid down, with regard to the price, the quality, matters to which such a bus must comply. And with those terms, you're gonna go shopping. Where that bus is bought, I'm not even so excited on my own. In the end, it is a question of what kind of level playing field you want to create, and that is probably the underlying question that Mr Alkaya has. The VVD then opts for a level playing field that is equal throughout the world. If there are other parts of the world that have not yet levelled the playing field, because they have built up all kinds of protection structures, then it is important to talk to those countries to break down the tariffs, the walls, the protection, instead of building them ourselves here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u23	Does the VVD simply accept that the playing field simply remains uneven if the other countries do not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u24	That is the great thing about consultation: it sometimes takes some time, but you have to talk to each other. There is no point in bidding against each other and ultimately breaking down the open economy. That would be much and much worse for our Dutch economy, our jobs and therefore our prosperity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u25	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Van der Lee. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u26	Mr Veldman asked the Minister about what was happening at European level. That is clear in itself: half of the Member States of the Union have a form of screening. There is now a proposal from the Commission to the Parliament, which is looking at it, to harmonise it and to even give the European Union a role when crucial interests are at stake for the whole of the Union. But where is the VVD now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u27	We agree with the idea of screening and to make European agreements on this, but the question then is how to do it. What is now before us at European level is a regulation. We are not very happy about that, because I believe that we in Europe have also agreed that what affects national security is a national matter. So we are not in favour of a regulation, because it no longer offers any room for manoeuvre to make our own decisions. In that respect, you should have a directive. In addition, the European Commission has its own position in that regulation, allowing it to do business independently. We do not see that role for the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u28	A follow-up question, then. In itself, I respect every position, but I don't think your position is very logical from your own point of view. You have been a strong supporter of this single European market from the outset and of all the Union's activities in this area. Then it is a logical part to organise this together and not to regard it as a national competence again. That's a coincidence, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u29	That is why I say: we support the idea of harmonising screening where vital sectors are concerned, but the question then is how to shape it. We have some criticism of the design as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u30	Thank you. There is also an interruption by Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u31	Madam President, additional to what Mr Alkaya has already said. There is no level playing field. There's no such thing. Mr Veldman may be able to tell me through the chairman which companies do, but in the eleven years I have been spokesperson I have never encountered one company that has said: there is a level playing field. Not at European level, nor outside the European Union, internationally. Shouldn't there be a lot of questions at the VVD? I would like to give an example, Madam President, if you will allow me. Whether it be the petrol pump holders in the border area or the beer brewers, but also large companies, PostNL: in England and in Germany they simply receive state aid, and we had to liberalise and privatise here and now it is a completely unequal market. Or take KLM. KLM is leading the way when it comes to sustainability...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u33	... but here they are sucked out by the government, while the Germans, Lufthansa, receive support, disguised state aid, outside the European Union! That is an important point, Madam President, because they do give state aid to such a company. I would have liked to have had a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u34	It is a pity what Mr Graus is doing here, because he says that there is no level playing field. My call is: we have to work on that! Then it's such a shame that, when we see developments in other countries... Let me give you an example of this and last week. The German Government intends to make the online pharmacy impossible for them to provide prescription medicines via mail order. This House has this week passed a motion calling on the cabinet to engage proactively with the German Government. That's how you work with each other! And who voted against, to my surprise? The PVV Group! It's a matter of will. If you want to work on that level playing field, you should also take steps and talk to each other. It is a pity to see that the PVV group does not even majority with a call to talk proactively with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u35	Mr. Graus, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u36	We never take part in a call for something we want to get rid of. That would not be consistent and consistent. That is why we do not take part in calls, nor in calls to the European Commission. When we say you should get out, you shouldn't shop selectively. Mr. Veldman knows damn well. What matters now is this. Here is a representative of a coalition party. Many people find that there is really not just Mr Alkaya and me that there is no level playing field. So what are we gonna do about that? I have tabled motions which were not supported by the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u37	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u38	We shouldn't go you-bake. What can we do together to ensure that there is a level playing field? You might want to ask, because you guys are a little closer together while I'm sitting in an opposition bench. I'd like to put that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u39	What we can do together, I believe, is where we see walls or barriers in conversation with the countries or institutions that create the walls and barriers, with the aim of breaking them down. You won't find me on your side while simultaneously rigging all kinds of protections in some kind of rat race. Ultimately, this leads to less foreign investment in the Netherlands and thus less prosperity and employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u40	As a liberal, I find myself greatly attracted by Mr Veldman's speech to prevent a race to the bottom with an enormous amount of protectionism. That is why I do not understand his scepticism about the European framework very well. This is a framework that requires Member States to check on two criteria: security and public order. The Netherlands was planning to do that anyway. It is a framework within which Member States have every opportunity to do so in their own way. What makes you so sceptical about that framework?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u41	It is a framework that gives the European Commission the power to give countries an indication that they must carry out research. Why should the European Commission have this role, especially when it comes to sectors of national importance because they may affect our national security? We have the basic agreement in the EU that national security is also a national matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u42	But if you look at Europe, can you not insist that national security does not affect other EU Member States that are in the same Union, the same internal market and the same customs union? I have heard it said before that we must stand together in the European Union vis-à-vis the countries outside it. Are we not going to be able to do that when our screening is somewhat similar and when we know from each other that we are looking critically at security and public order?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u43	Sure. That is why I said just now that we support the objective. The question is, how do you do it? What is now before us with a European regulation is not the way we would like to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u44	Mr Veldman prefers a directive rather than a regulation because a directive offers more scope. This gives us an uneven playing field within the European Union. You can get different interpretations and a different way of introducing certain provisions. I'd like to hear a response from Mr. Veldman. Then you will be played against each other again within Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u45	A regulation is a boarded-up story. You want room for your own national security. We have agreed that countries have the power to make their own decisions. A directive is a more appropriate instrument for us than a closed regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u46	Then I would like to say to Mr Veldman that a regulation also gives a country the freedom to decide for itself on certain points. I think this is being explained too short. This creates an uneven playing field within Europe and then we are played against each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u47	Then we'll have a regulation. I would like to remind you once again that the European Commission has a competence which we are seriously wondering if the European Commission should have one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u48	I do not think that we are going to get there, because we believe that the European Commission is the only one who can keep an eye on what is happening in all countries and create a level playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u49	In my view, having a common view of what is happening is something other than a power of the Commission to give an indication that a country must carry out its own investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u50	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ahold, AkzoNobel and Unilever, but also PostNL, Fox-IT, NXP, the Hoogovens in IJmuiden, Organon and even V&D. All these Dutch companies are on the grocery list of foreign investors or have been on it before and have already been sold to foreign millionaires or billionaires. Today we are talking about protecting our companies from takeovers, and rightly so, but it seems that this cabinet does not mind if international capitalists take over our companies than foreign state companies do. What difference does it make, I'll ask the Minister if you lose your job or if your pension becomes insecure while shareholders run away with millions? What difference does it make to those people who the shareholders are? The contrasts can hardly be greater. For example, last time at AkzoNobel. With the money that shareholders have left net to sell, 7.5 billion, all 2,500 employees who move to Carlyle could retain their pension for 250 years. Of course, that whole amount is not needed now, and that is not what those employees are asking for. They ask for about a twentieth of them to be able to index their pensions after years. But what do they get? A raise of a few percent and a one-time €2,500. The cost to the investor: about 15 million. This is 1/500th of the proceeds from the sale. 1/500th, so €1 out of €500 goes to the employees and €499 goes to the shareholders. Does the Minister think this is fair? The greed of international capitalists became clear once again in the interview that two French ladies of the investment company CIAM gave yesterday in De Telegraaf. They want to get rid of the protection structures at Ahold, because the price value could be 10% higher. And what if you don't get what you want, the reporter asked. They replied: then we simply go to court, we have done so much more often. In the letter on Ahold, which the Minister sent as a matter of urgency, for which he thanked, he took a side-step, as I have seen several times in his various debates. I am not surprised either by this either, but there is a clear clash here between the interests of Dutch workers on the one hand and the foreign shareholders on the other. Is the Minister aware that he is taking a side by adopting a sideline attitude, namely that of the international capitalists? The cabinet wants to safeguard public interests, while maintaining the momentum. So not much change. Does the Minister share the view of the SP that public interests do not end in public and security, but that workers' interests should be equally protected? Finally, Mr President. I am convinced that public interests would be much better protected if employees actually had something to say about the future of their business and about the takeovers. Germany is a good example of this. There the staff have much more to say about the composition of the Supervisory Board. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister whether he is familiar with the system of Mitbestimmung and what his opinion is on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u52	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u53	Mr. Chairman. Protectionism is of all times. For example, the Brazilians are good at it. Not an official free market that's been boarded up like the Brazilian. The infrastructure of the ports is so pitiful that foreign ships are in some kind of traffic jam before being able to unload. It is logical that Dutch companies see opportunities for dredging and investing in better ports. I mention this example because, as far as D66 is concerned, an open economy without defence walls benefits the Netherlands like no other country. The ghost of protectionism must therefore be driven away and not encouraged. We are also looking at the ever-blowing call for protection structures. We've got two buts in there. One is that companies and assets that are vital to the functioning of our country deserve specific protection, and two is that we should not be the crazy Gerritje that puts our own business and therefore our own Rhineland model at a disproportionate disadvantage. It is therefore a good thing that, under the leadership of Emmanuel Macron, the open house culture towards China in particular is now being broken. And we are already seeing the right response there, because from the end of June foreign investors will be allowed to build majority stakes in Chinese financials, in stock houses, asset managers, insurers. That is a good step in the European direction and, as far as we are concerned, it is followed by a Chinese-European joint investment agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u54	Mr Paternotte referred to "the vital national interest." Those beautiful words were already mentioned by the VVD. But what does that mean? That's a question I'm about to ask the Minister, but what does Mr Paternotte understand? Because we may all be, from left to right, much closer to each other than you dare to suspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u55	It is all those sectors that are now being vetted to see whether they are indeed vitally important at national level and what specific protection should be required. These include safety, medical infrastructure, the telecom infrastructure of the Netherlands and that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u56	And energy companies! I ask this because the SP and PVV have tried to prevent the sale of energy companies, because they are also companies of national vital importance. Heat is a primary need for life. If energy companies end up in foreign hands, it can also be strategically used against us. Those companies, if they're in foreign hands, can also be sold to countries you shouldn't think about. So why didn't D66 back those motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u57	I do not know what specific motions you are referring to, but it is true that the energy companies in the Netherlands are in such different hands that there is no room for pressing a button to frustrate the Dutch energy supply. So in that respect, I don't recognize the point you're making.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u58	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u59	Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, therefore, there is no need to make an abrupt effort to intervene with NXP. Because NXP has achieved phenomenal results in recent years and the semiconductors have been part of a takeover game for years. At the moment the shareholders have a few hours left to indicate whether they want to accept the bid of the American Qualcomm. If enough shareholders report, the acquisition will be called into question immediately because the Chinese competition authority is considering blocking the acquisition in response to Donald Trump's decision to cancel the acquisition of Qualcomm by Broadcom. At least that is what we know. Could the Minister state the latest state of play on this matter? I also have a question about this. The reason to stop the takeover was for the U.S. government that state security would be at stake. That's what the minister wrote. Does he share our view that when a NATO ally blocks an acquisition because of state security, it is reasonable for the Dutch State to share that insight and therefore, if necessary, also know about the considerations of the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States? I can easily draw parallels with Chinese companies that are oriented towards the Dutch market, and indeed we do not have the security checks as far as the Americans are concerned. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I say that we also want a level playing field for our companies in Europe. That is why agreements have been made on this subject in the coalition agreement. We look forward to the work of the Minister, because it has been going on for some time now. I understand the impatience of some here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u60	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u61	I share Mr Paternotte's views on protectionism. It also harbors a great evil and is threatening the economy. On the other hand, however, last year a process was initiated by the minister's minister's predecessor to arrive at a system of checks-and-balances, including that legal reflection period. This has also been set in motion to ensure that, in line with the Rhineland model, long-term interests prevail over short-term profit interests. Does Mr Paternotte share the line set out last year by then Minister Kamp?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u62	I told you, I understand the impatience you have shown. You said, I believe, that there was little fish between head and tail and little cheese between the holes. Then you almost compared yourself to a grumpy pig who finds an empty bucket in front of him. What I understand is that you say that things are not going as fast as we thought at the time. So I can place that impatience very well. I would also like to hear from the Minister what planning he is planning, because the Council of State is now going to give its opinion because, among other things, the motion we tabled, but also many other aspects, touch upon European law. You are absolutely right to say that we should have known that last year. So I hope that the Council of State will soon be able to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u63	Mr Moorlag, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u64	The essence of my question was whether Mr Paternotte endorses the line outlined last year by Minister Kamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u65	No, because a coalition agreement was concluded after that. You also saw in that debate that the four parties who spoke about this came up with different views. In my opinion, the CDA wanted to go a lot further than the VVD, and I wouldn't say anything about the position of D66. But a coalition agreement has been reached in which not the line of Minister Kamp but another line is deployed. The aim is to reach a period of reflection of 250 days. This is indeed somewhat like one of the ideas put forward by Minister Kamp, but most of the points made by Minister Kamp in his letter of May last year have now been withdrawn, as Mr Kamp himself has pointed out in that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u66	Thank you. Ah, Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u67	However, Mr President, the CDA spokesperson sat down at the last minute, so I had to get up quickly at the last minute, excuse me. When we talk about this type of thing and about protection structures, we often talk about the relationship between shareholders and the board of directors. Now we know D66 as a party for democratisation, even if it sometimes goes a bit differently. Does D66 agree with me that we should follow a number of countries, Scandinavian countries or Germany, by setting up companies more democratically, so that the involvement of the employees is also brought to his attention?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u68	In that respect, each country really has its own model. The German economy is in any case very different, for example to the extent that listed companies are part of the economy and the amount of family businesses it knows. In the Netherlands, the Enterprise Chamber also checks on a good balance of interests with all stakeholders, of which the employees are of course part. There is also a law in the First Chamber which further strengthens the position of works councils. We're okay with that. Do we have to go so far as to copy the German model exactly? I am not saying that we should never do that, but I do not see any reason at the moment, because I feel that the balance of interests is really in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u69	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u70	As I said in reply to Mr Moorlag's question, I really do understand his impatience. It has been decided to obtain information from the Council of State first. I do believe that we could have seen earlier that these issues affect European law. My question is, therefore, whether the Minister, even if he is not on the agenda of the Council of State, can foresee when the Council of State can deliver an opinion and whether he expects to be able to send a legislative proposal to this Chamber this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u71	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Graus of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u72	Thank you, Madam President. I am actually very happy with the new Chamber composition, because before that the SP and PVV were often fighting only against these kinds of hostile takeovers. I have already mentioned the energy companies. We have often fought side by side to preserve them for the Netherlands. Energy and heat must always be held in national hands, because it can also be used strategically. That is certainly a company of national vital importance, I would say; hence my interruption. However, I have even been able to sign motions with the CDA, including Mrs Van den Berg and some of my colleagues, on a proposal against hostile takeovers and research into more protective instruments against unwanted or hostile takeovers. I've even done that with Mr Paternotte of D66, because since he's been in the Chamber, I've been able to join D66, so thank you for that. It was also about legal reflection; all this is known to the Minister. Let me be quite clear about the little debate I had with Mr Veldman; a very large part I really agree with him, hear that we are in favour of a certain protectionism. I also think that this should be completely separate from each other. We did not support the call because we want to leave the European Union. We really want to go back to the old EEC situation, with bilateral trade agreements. We can do that very well. I believe that within the present European Union we have been the best trading country for centuries. So we are really in favour of trade and for Europe, for bilateral trade agreements. I mentioned it in all the debates: Switzerland had a bilateral trade agreement with China before the whole of the European Union together. So it's possible. I think we could have done it even faster than Switzerland, given the sympathy that many people, especially in China, have for our country. We are in favour of protecting companies of national importance. I'd like to put a question to the new minister. At least, the relatively new minister, because he's been there for a while. He's done more than many ministers for him who've been there for years. My compliments on that. But what does the Minister mean by "vital national interest"? I've already asked Mr. Paternotte that. When is a company of "vital national interest"? I've asked for that list a million times. Usually they say, "I'm not gonna give you a list, you don't get that list." But I would have really liked that, not only in the financial, economic and social fields, but also strategically. In the case of energy companies, you can really call them strategically against us one day. So what does the Minister mean by "vital national interest"? Can we quickly get a list so that we can think along? I would very much like to sign with you if Mr Veldman is going to table a motion to ensure a level playing field. I assume he'll come up with a request. Then I'd like to co-sign and support him. Mr. Alkaya has already mentioned a whole section of the companies, so I'll spare you that. But we have indeed sold out companies, such as energy companies and KLM. The French would never have done that. Don't believe that we could've gotten our hands on Air France just as easily as KLM did. The VVD also asked: what is the Minister going to do to circumvent European law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u73	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u74	I'm gonna finish up, sure. We once asked for this legislation, and so did the SP. Minister Kamp didn't want that in the first place, and he did at some point. Minister Kamp, the former Minister of Economic Affairs, was known to have the flexibility of a sea container. It was a strong minister, who didn't admit anything quickly. Why did he suddenly want to do that? Think about it, even Minister Kamp has started to think about it! A blessed evening, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u75	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u76	Mr. Chairman. In June last year we had a new Chamber, not yet a new Cabinet and not the threatening takeover of a large company from the Netherlands. I have the impression that tonight we have a very different debate than then, with a very different dynamic, and then I express myself with caution. Why do I start with that? Because we must not rule out that at some point we are back in the situation as in last June, namely that suddenly someone, or whatever you want to call the one who wants to take over something, wants to take over a Dutch company. Let me say first of all that we, like the Netherlands, which have large companies, also take over foreign companies. Akzo, for example, did so at the time of Wijers, when he took over a large English group. So we must be very careful, but we must also realise that we are living in a very different world than we were a long time ago, or perhaps even before the crisis. I don't need to think about it in detail, but everyone knows what I mean. Of course, China has immense opportunities to buy a lot. On the other hand, we see a rather strong capitalist country that may have the strongest protection wall in the world through its American Committee on Foreign Investment. Mrs van den Berg and I mentioned this last year in our contribution. That's a little ahead of time. An open economy is closely related to the many barriers that Dutch entrepreneurs too often encounter in other countries, especially outside the Union. The cabinet's efforts are therefore aimed at restoring reciprocity, i.e. ensuring equal access to markets. We share that attitude. Following last June's debate, more than nine months ago, a number of motions were adopted. I am referring in particular to two motions tabled by Mrs van den Berg, which I signed with her, and to a motion which I myself tabled on the reflection period. Subsequently, relevant intentions have also been included in the government agreement, including the statutory reflection period of stock exchange companies. We know that the precise implementation of these proposals affects European law, and we are now waiting for it. The cabinet has therefore decided to ask the Advisory Section of the Council of State for information on the European legal aspects of the reflection period prior to further drafting of a legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. No one wants a one-size-fits-all solution, but we're almost a year ahead, and it's only now that the hallway to the Council of State is being opened. Two of the three motions I reported already called for speed and speed. That was also logical because of the dynamics of the debate at the time. Why is it taking so much time? The Minister's letter of 12 December also led to the assumption that the request for a preventive test would also be taken with the same speed by a government committee; Mrs Van den Berg's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u77	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u78	Yes, Mr. Chairman, almost. That is not the case. The letter of 29 March does not actually mention a preventive test or a government committee. There's talk of ex-ante analysis. Is that the translation given by the Minister to this motion? In my view, in our view, there is a difference between analyses and a test. I would like to ask the Minister to state what he really means. We get ex-ante analyses, but we talked about a test in motions earlier last year, not to talk about further steps, as we know them in America with the foreign investment committee.... I would like to know from the Minister what he thinks of them to have a certain level of protection. I do not need to be silent about the way France does that: the President says that Coca-Cola Danone cannot take over and then it does not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u79	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u80	Thank you, Mr President. The CDA is for an open economy, but a fair economy. And with a fair economy there is a global level playing field and there are no barriers to this, so that Dutch entrepreneurs who want to invest in other countries are not allowed to invest, while countries that want to invest here do. There is no fair economy if you have to compete with companies from other countries that are partly state owned or benefit from state aid. As the Secretary-General has rightly said, we are keen on blurring borders. Mr. Chairman. A country that we need to be very keen on with regard to the CDA is China. A level playing field requires reciprocity. Reciprocity seems to be far from China right now. I would like to mention a few examples of what we have heard with people in recent months. Chinese companies can easily invest in and take over companies here; Nexperia is an example of this. Only, Dutch companies do so in a joint venture and not with a majority of shares. China offers co-financing with state aid and then implements infrastructure in Eastern Europe, which is paid with European subsidies. China buys daughters from companies and is therefore indirectly sitting at the Brussels table to talk about strategies for how we, as Europe, want to deal with China. Chinese companies are present on campuses worldwide and offer people a fridge work agreement, so "you can come and work with us, but please do so in two years' time and work elsewhere first," and they take that information with them. What is also said is "copyright is the right to copy." We have the following questions to the Minister. Can he indicate what he is going to do within the current legislation in the Netherlands to achieve more reciprocity? Can he indicate the position of the Netherlands on the European proposal for greater reciprocity? And what does the Minister think of the desire to create a new Silk Road? A lot has been written about this in the newspapers over the last few days. Can the Minister confirm that the Netherlands is not going to participate in this? Finally, Mr President. During other debates, I indicated that I believe the government should be the most popular client. The recent analysis of Cobouw shows that Rijkswaterstaat uses standard DBFM contracts which means that they finance it, build it and also sign it entirely based on international law. That is very nice, but foreign companies have very easy access to the Dutch market, while other countries do not do so with their contracts. Therefore, Dutch companies do not have these opportunities in other countries in Europe. There is also a lack of reciprocity here. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this with Rijkswaterstaat? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u81	I have a question for Mr Van der Berg on the interpretation of the coalition agreement on this point. Is there room in there for doing something in the field of a test, of a screening?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u82	From the coalition agreement, I draw the following conclusions. A is that we're going to do something about the reflection period and that it's going to be incorporated into the law. B is that the percentage at which stock ownership must be reported is reduced to 1%, so that you know more when locusts are in your backyard. I believe that Mr Van der Lee is referring in particular to identifying which sectors are vital and to which we, as the Netherlands, can therefore impose conditions or even, in extreme cases, impose a ban on selling them. But it is particularly important that conditions can be laid down. We are working very hard on this. In the letter from Minister Wiebes I read that he is working on the analyses to further map that out, and Secretary of State Keijzer told us one of these days that she will be coming to the Chamber with a first proposal on unwanted control in telecommunications.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u83	Mr. Van der Lee, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u84	May I conclude that Dutch support for the regulation on which the European Union is working to harmonise screening is part of the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u85	If I have understood correctly the fact that we have received from the government, it is true that the Netherlands may have some points in detail, but that it can support what is now being proposed in Europe in general terms. If I've misunderstood that, I'd like to hear it from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u86	Thank you. I see you want the floor, Mr. Alkaya, but unfortunately you've already had two interruptions. It is always very lame, but otherwise this debate will end very badly. The Minister has indicated that he can reply immediately. It would be nice if the Minister could give us an explanation of how he's going to answer all the questions. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u87	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I wanted to take the unique opportunity to present the vision requested here. You can't do that if the Prime Minister's here, but he's on a plane from China now, so it's okay. That's what I wanted to do first. After that, market access and reciprocity will also be discussed. All kinds of questions have been asked about the so-called vital sectors and about the reflection period. And then I missed things, but then I'm going through my notes, because I hope I've written down all your questions. I hope to come up with that. Do we have a vision? Yes, I do. The coalition agreement speaks very clearly about this. In a coalition agreement is important what it says and what it doesn't say. Now that I have been in this profession for a few months, I can even tell you that this vision is endorsed by many of my visitors. Many of my visitors are the CEOs of the companies in the Netherlands, who also come to explain their views. A lot of that is very similar. But what is that vision? That vision is that we in the Netherlands have had to have a very important and always open economy and that our weapons are not protection, defence or protectionism, but a good climate of location. That is what the coalition agreement does: it focuses mainly on the locational climate. But there are buts, and I will walk through them more systematically, but one is that we do benefit from reciprocity. It is a thorn in our eyes that this is not always the case. In the vital sectors, read: the sectors in which security and public order are at stake are sometimes subject to conditions. I'll get back to you on that. We do believe that our Rhineland model should be further rigged with a period of reflection. That's the vision. That vision has not come completely out of the sky and has been there for a long time. If there is one country in the world that benefits from an open economy, that is the Netherlands. The World Economic Forum calls us the most competitive economy in the European Union and fourth in the world. Please note that there are 200 countries. We are the fourth most competitive economy in the world. We are the second agro-exporter in the world, not in a relative sense, but in an absolute sense. We're the third private investor in the world, after the U.S. and China. For 30 years in a row, we've been exporting more than we import. We earn a third of our income on exports. Dutch consumers benefit from this, because because there is a competitive environment here, they benefit from lower prices. There are studies that have recently shown that prices are tens of percent lower than would have been the case without climate. The UN expects us to invest almost twice as much abroad as foreigners invest in the Netherlands. Reciprocity, I think. The stakes are therefore on the locational climate, in full width. No, that's not just tax. As a result of our locational climate, 15,000 foreign companies operate in the Netherlands; 1.4 million jobs. It was Mr Alkaya who, in one sense, associated foreign shareholders with job losses, but 1.4 million people, including certainly the supporters of Mr Alkaya, work at foreign companies that we have been able to attract here thanks to the locational climate and the open economy. Those foreign companies are therefore responsible for one third of R&D expenditure in the Netherlands. So what do we think of takeovers? We agree with them in principle. A hostile takeover sounds very hostile, but a hostile takeover is initially a takeover that the board doesn't feel like. It has not been said that it is bad for the country, for the employee, for the shareholder, for employment. We have often used takeovers more often in the sense of taking over than in the sense of being taken over, and that has created our largest multinationals. That's how we did it. The government has a Rhineland-Palatinate role in this. We do not take sides and we are not against takeovers and hostile takeovers. However, we attach importance to the existence of order because we are convinced that it will be beneficial to ensure that this is done in an orderly manner because of the economic organization and the survival of businesses. We are giving parties the opportunity to make counter-proposals, to think about something, perhaps to come up with a counterproposal that the original takeover was not such a good idea after all, or to make sure that it is a good idea. That's a government role. A logical role of government is also to argue for reciprocity. We are all in favour of this; I have not heard anyone argue against it. There is no difference of opinion on this, but I am also saying that we cannot settle this here tonight. We have difficulty in having an open economy but at the same time there are countries that also make a lot of non-market-driven investments. That's not always good news. The cabinet is committed to reaching agreements within the G20 and the WTO, but also at European level. That is the comprehensive trade mission. I was informed by the trade mission that there had been a constructive response to this. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, it's a party for a lot of MPs tonight. This is not dealt with at one stroke, but countries that play an increasingly important role on the world stage are also beginning to benefit more from doing so. They should gradually grow into that reciprocity. That is what we want and that is not settled overnight. This means that the vision is very clear: yes, open, but there are a number of mares and those mares are all part of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u88	There is an interruption by Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u89	I have the impression that the vision section has been completed. In itself, I respect that vision and broadly endorse it, because GroenLinks is also in favour of an open economy and for reciprocity. That's all fine. The question is, also from the point of view of the precautionary principle, whether this also applies to cases where things are not going well at all. This can also be because there are macroeconomic issues, such as the financial crisis; a monetary policy that makes your companies suddenly much more attractive than would normally be the case. For that kind of situation, do you have the tools in the house as a government, not to put that in immediately everywhere, but to keep it in hand? Doesn't that fit your vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u90	You should always be able to arm yourself against things that could happen, which you really can't be for for objective reasons. One of these things is, I think, the most important, if takeovers can play an important role in terms of public order and security. That is what we mean in the coalition agreement with the vital sectors. The Commission is working towards a European framework. Mrs van den Berg asked how we feel about this European framework and I shall say something about it. It is important that we can at any time ensure that where public order and security are playing, we can carry out the proper review, possibly impose conditions and, in one case, also say that a takeover is not going to happen. A list of sectors has been published in which this is examined. The Chamber shall have that list. Those analyses will be ready by the summer. The Minister for Justice and Security must go further and see whether conditions should be imposed if there is friction. But it is also important, and I would also like to share this with Mr Van der Lee, that we do not start from scratch. It is not the case that the Netherlands is now thinking: could some sectors perhaps play a role in security or public order? We have already done this to an important extent. It would be weird if we suddenly started thinking about this and said that the Commission should take care of it for us. We already have an infrastructure in which that is arranged. We know that all kinds of infrastructure are regulated nationally and should often be in the hands of governments or associated parties, for example ProRail. We know that there are extensive rules on ownership in the energy sector. We took care of that. It would be crazy if we had to look at the Commission before that and start all over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u92	In Europe, everything, like the third energy package, is what is in it. We have often stated in our national regulations that something must be in government hands, or that it must somehow be under government control. We have a certain order for that, too. You want to guarantee it with regulations in the first place. In a single case, it also means government property. But it could also mean that in some of those sectors that have been analysed, we should indeed move on to other forms of protection. You say: here we have a European framework and there are no takeovers or only take-overs possible under conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u93	Could you keep it a little shorter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u94	I'm gonna finish it. We have also seen sectors where we had not yet sufficiently regulated this in the past. We do not have to wait for the Commission to do so. Telecom: it is the State Secretary of EZK who is shortly making proposals to strengthen public interests there. So that's what we're doing right now. We don't have to wait for that. It fits in with the vision and has always fit in with the vision. This is now being promoted more actively, and there is a sufficient and more active effort to regulate this. As far as I am concerned, therefore, this fits explicitly in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u95	Thank you. I assume that you have already answered a number of other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u96	On timing, for example: a question from Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u97	Look. That's what I suspected. Mr Van der Lee, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u98	I have one more question about the sectors. There is one more sector in which, to the extent that you may call it a sector, or one more area in which the Minister also has a responsibility. I am now talking about technological innovations in the field of photonics and quantum mechanics. These technologies carry a great deal of promise, but we know that a country such as China is working on them and is also trying to get this knowledge through other ways without doing so legally. Cyber security is also an issue. Is this also an area which the Minister specifically looks at when we talk about this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u99	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u100	I don't think so; let me be honest. In fact, I think that foreign investment in innovative sectors could be of particular benefit to us. If it is really not a sector where public order and security are at stake, then I do not think we should go through our open economy. We do have more research in very valuable areas done in the Netherlands by companies in foreign hands. One of our most important research institutes in the field of dairy products is at least a very important institution called French. 30% of the high-quality R&D is done by companies that do not have Dutch headquarters. That all counts here. That also contributes to our prosperity. That's us. Only, the shareholder may speak a little less ABN.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u101	Thank you. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u102	With regard to the vital sectors, I still owe one answer to Mrs van den Berg. In fact, she asked: do we fully agree with that chip? I think she asked this in response to a question from a colleague. The chip on that was clear. No, we do not entirely agree with the Commission's line, precisely because it risks going far beyond the path of public order and security. She's making a much wider trip. This gives all kinds of Member States the opportunity to block things that actually have nothing to do with public order and security and actually introduces a form of protectionism that does not benefit our country. Perhaps other countries will benefit, but not this country. Secondly, we found the European Commission somewhat hungry for powers. As soon as something hits the European Framework Programme alone, for example, it is out of the question. We don't think so. We are cherishing openness and we do not want to place matters of national security on the Commission's plate either. That's what we'd rather do ourselves. There was also criticism from the Netherlands of that proposal.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We stand before it and it is part of our coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u103	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u104	In addition to a previous question from me. I mentioned the example that China is now working with European subsidies in Poland. This has everything to do with creating a European level playing field. I would very much like to know how the Minister sees it in relation to that sheet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u105	The fact that Chinese companies are building something in Europe with European subsidies is what makes the playing field even, because European companies are also building things in Europe with European subsidies. So that equalizes the playing field here. There is no reason not to subsidise an infrastructure if the shareholder has a different nationality. Just when you're on a level playing field, you have to say, "may the best win." Then the possible subsidy available is also accessible to those who are best placed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u106	The point was that this best candidate could call himself the best candidate because he has State aid. In our view, that is not a level playing field. I agree with the Minister that if that were not the case, it would be the one who best meets the conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u107	I agree entirely with Mrs van den Berg, but if there is unfair competition in this way, it has nothing to do with Poland, not even with China, nor with infrastructure. If there is State aid from outside Europe, the European State aid framework does not, of course, see it there, then we have introduced an uneven playing field. We do not want to do that, but, as far as I am concerned, that is actually part of the reciprocity issue. That is also what we want to discuss with the other countries, because that is not what we would like to see. Mr. Chairman. Then we have the time to think about it. Mr Moorlag in particular asked me whether I feel the same way as my predecessor. He asked, "Is it gonna happen?" Let me tell him this. To what extent I agree with my predecessor, he may decide for himself, but I agree with the coalition agreement. It says that there will be a period of reflection. I am looking at Mr Moorlag and I am telling him, through the chairman, that this bill is coming. Period. We still have questions about that. I wouldn't like to come into the circumstance that I'm launching a bill that will immediately blow holes in it. There are a few real questions. They're being picked out. After that, the bill just comes to the Chamber. If I may interpret it freely, it's a bit of freestyling, I think it'll be soon after the summer. Then the bill comes to the Chamber. The person you then see in front of you is the Minister for Legal Protection, who is going to make the proposal because it is part of the Civil Code. So it's coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u108	It is good to hear that it is said so clearly, but can the Minister understand what impression the letter gives, also in the light of the previous letters that have been published? The impression was given that there would already be a legislative proposal in the last quarter and that these other points would also be reported to the Court. This gives the impression that the urgency is gone, while, as you yourself say, it is a crucial subject of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u109	I actually agree with Mr Moorlag on that impression. In his place I had also thought: what kind of sailing is this? I assure him from this place that it will come. A number of questions still need to be determined, but the bill is really coming. It's not stalling with a view to delay, but it's figuring out something to be able to shoot right away and not miss a few times first. I get his point, but here's the thing. That is why I would like to say it so strongly in his direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u110	It's a good thing the Minister says that so equestrian. Then there is a section that is still open from last year: the role of the Entrepreneurship Chamber. In the last letter, there is no further mention of this. To what extent can the instruments of the Enterprise Chamber be better deployed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u111	That's a good question. Can I try to get back to that in second term? I'll write it down. I'm just gonna run the books.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u112	Look, the Minister is continuing his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u113	Yeah, I'm afraid so. Mr Van der Lee asked for a screening mechanism. If the screening mechanism is as broad as he himself sketches, then there is no such thing, because that is about all kinds of economic interests, technological highlights and so on. We are examining whether, in addition to all the legislation already in place to protect vital sectors, there is still a need for additional safeguards in the sectors analysed, for example in the form of conditions or all kinds of other mechanisms. In that sense, therefore, there is, but I think he is going a step further with the screening mechanism than in the cabinet's view would be wise. At least that's what I'm making out of his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u114	This touches a little on the European debate on the interpretation of the regulation. It is clearly hanged on protecting public order and security. There is also a link with European projects. Then you can discuss what exactly is covered, but the approach is really primarily to protect public order and security. When a regulation has been drawn up, does it fit in your view that the Netherlands really harmonises its method of screening with that regulation? Or are you going to try to stop that regulation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u115	No, the sheet speaks quite clearly about that. This cabinet has planned to work on these vital sectors, to examine whether more is needed on the basis of public policy and security. We support the Commission's initiative as a matter of principle, but there are a number of aspects that we really think are out of line, that it goes too far or that it eats on national sovereignty. But to answer his question right now, I find it complicated. This is a piece of legislation that will eventually come about. To tell you how I go along with that if I don't know what's coming out, I find that a little complicated. I think that Mr Van der Lee should be confident that I am trying to take the coalition agreement seriously. That speaks language that he can also agree with in that width. So let's just call it a night.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u116	Mr Van der Lee, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u117	In my view, it is not entirely clear from the coalition agreement to what extent you should or should not support this regulation. I hear from Brussels that the Dutch line-up is perceived as "mostribble." That is, in principle, to say 'we want something like that', but then to make so many comments that in practice this leads to the proposal not getting any further. Next year will be the European elections. Then nothing happens at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u118	Then in greater openness. I have put it here, and it is also in the record, but I shall say it in my own words................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Now I'm being honest about what the Cabinet thinks about that. Mr Van der Lee may have a different view on this. That's what we wrote in that chip. That's clear. We believe that something like this should be done in Europe at the heart of the matter, but we simply do not agree with all kinds of aspects. We don't struggle with that either, we don't struggle with that either, but we speak out against that. And we're suggesting that we change it in a different way. That's what we do, and it's in the chip. Mr. Chairman. Mr Veldman asked what progress has actually been made in Europe on the level playing field and open borders. There are talks about this in many areas through trade and investment agreements. The Commission launched a dialogue with China in 2017 on not only state aid but also competition policy. This is an opportunity to promote reforms in Chinese policy. A contact group has been set up with Member States to also exchange information on state aid from third countries. It is clear that we are not coming here tonight with clear agreements with China on this, but there is progress, as is the case in diplomatic circles. I understand that the trade mission of the Netherlands has just been able to give it a boost in the right direction. Mr Veldman also asks about the measures we would like to propose for the vital sectors. That depends entirely on the analysis. The Minister of Justice and Security will come forward with his analyses around the summer. After that, we need to look further at what measures are in place. Mr Alkaya has a number of questions about whether they were real questions, let me put a few questions about Ahold. I'm not going into the situation at Ahold. That is really up to the stakeholders of Ahold himself. I'm not gonna comment on that. Mr Alkaya asked a question about the control of employees in Germany. I think we have a different perception of that. In my understanding, it saves very little. There is little difference between Germany and the Netherlands in this respect. The only sectors in which the situation in Germany differs significantly from that in the Netherlands are coal and steel. There is a kind of parity between shareholders and employees. They both occupy half of the Supervisory Board. But outside these sectors, the rules are not very different and there are not very large differences, at least not that I know of. Perhaps Mr Alkaya has other information, but this is the information I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u119	An interruption by Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u120	I do not think it is sector-dependent but depends on the size of the company. That limit is quite high, namely for 2,000 employees, I say out of my mind. For companies with more than 2,000 employees and listed on the stock exchange, employees can also appoint half of the supervisory board. Perhaps the Minister is prepared to look into that further. Why am I quoting Ahold? Because we are in danger of losing sight of why we are concerned about all these takeovers in this kind of technical debate. That's what we do because of the employees. These workers are in danger of losing their jobs. They're threatening to lose their pension commitments. This now threatens to happen again at Ahold, because a protection structure is being overturned. That was the situation with AkzoNobel. I want to bring that perspective into the debate every time. That is why I am bringing up the situation in Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u121	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u122	Is the Minister prepared to take a closer look at that? If we are talking about the Rhineland model, I think we should take a look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u123	The Rhine is also there, but I do not think that we now have any reason to change employee control. I would also like to say, in general terms, that the fact that a protection structure could disappear is far from it, and that is not the case; Mr Alkaya knows that too, and that other shareholders could be involved, has not yet been said that jobs are being lost. In fact, our open economy is clearly leading to a lot of jobs. That's what we're looking for. Not only people from the supporters of Mr Alkaya's party but also people from the supporters of my party work at those foreign companies. They have so far benefited greatly from this open economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u124	To give the minister some background, I've spent six years walking around the ministry he's in right now. So I didn't come directly from a squat. It's not like I think the employees should take over all the companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u125	That's not what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u126	You're acting like I'm against all kinds of foreign investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u127	I'd like you to speak through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u128	Mr. Chairman. The Minister pretends I'm against all forms of foreign investment. I ask the Minister if he is prepared to see if the system in which those who pay also determine everything they can still pay, they can still invest..... and in which they also have full control over such companies, is still the most optimal system. Or are we better off giving employees more control, including in protecting our companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u129	You will not hear me say that Mr Alkaya is from a squat. Besides, he doesn't look like that at all. What I object to is that he now calls foreign shareholdership in one sentence three times in a row with job losses. I do not think that is the right thing to do. That's a fear I don't share. In fact, I think the opposite is true, as I have also said, namely that our economy has created a lot of jobs. Secondly, I told him that I am indeed not prepared to look for opportunities for even more employee control. We are one of the countries in the world that goes relatively far. That is something that is all well and good legislation. We have all recorded this and I am not going to question it on a warm Thursday evening in a debate on takeovers. That's my answer, no matter how disappointing that would be for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u130	In view of the time: how far are you about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u131	I'm gonna try to keep going hard. Mr Paternotte asked about the latest state of play regarding the acquisition of Qualcomm by Broadcom... No, he didn't ask me that at all. Then he'll have to tell me what he does want to know. NXP? It is offered to the shareholders of NXP or 70% of the documents. That period has not yet expired, so I cannot say anything about it. Furthermore, Mr Paternotte has asked whether I think it is logical for me to hear from a friendly nation what objections they would have on the grounds of national security. As logical as I would think it would be, it is something that the United States keeps to itself, because considerations of national security are covered by the confidentiality that comes with that national security. So I'm not gonna hear that from the Americans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u132	The first question concerned the fact that Qualcomm's acquisition of NXP could be blocked by the Chinese competition authority as a countermeasure against the fact that the Americans blocked Broadcom's acquisition of Qualcomm. I was wondering if the Minister had any insight into the latest state of affairs in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u133	I don't have any further information on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u134	The second question is this. If it is a decision of the US Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States on the national security of the United States, isn't it obvious that this might also be relevant information for us at the time that the same Chinese party could take over here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u135	Yeah, I could, but it's not the information we're getting. We also have our own considerations of public order and national security. It would be very instructive to know, but we don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u136	Is the Minister, or one of his colleagues, going to make an effort to ensure that we may in future get this kind of information from a friendly nation within an alliance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u137	No, because the policy of the United States, which we are not going to change on this warm Thursday evening, is that of the United States, which also does not share with its allies, where national security is concerned. I can't change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u138	In addition to what Mr Paternotte asked, I myself have supplementary questions about NXP before the Minister. We may not get information from the United States about why Broadcom is not allowed to take over Qualcomm, but it might be an additional indication to say: perhaps we should be more careful before Qualcomm can take over NXP, especially since NXP 5G technology for self-driving cars is developing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u139	We have analysed the sectors in which these issues of national security and public order could be addressed. We continued it for further analysis. The Minister for Security and Justice will come back to that later. We did not include semiconductors on the basis of selection, because we do not believe that these issues are relevant. The fact that the United States has a different view on this is interesting in itself. I am as curious as Mr Paternotte. But we're not gonna know that. We have judged for ourselves and have come to the conclusion on the basis of analysis that this sector does not belong on the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u140	Let's make a comparison. On its initiative, the European Commission sat down with the large car companies a few months ago to talk about how we can make Europe's own batteries for self-driving cars. That is where we see that importance. We just had a round table ourselves about 5G. We have requested it, and Mr Paternotte has requested a debate on it. It is the future of our own digital infrastructure for the whole of the Netherlands. So again, I would like to know from the Minister why he might not want to reconsider that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u141	The analysis was done by people who know more about safety than I do, and they didn't put the semiconductors on it. That's not so weird either. Most of the semiconductors that are vital to our economy are not produced in the Netherlands. That's not weird at all. So putting this sector on it would almost mean that we might have to become self-sufficient in semiconductors, and that is an untenable thing. A clear analysis has been made of this and a list has been made. This list is also available to the Chamber. I'm not going to change that on the basis of my own instincts. Let me try to keep this orderly. Mr Van Rooijen has asked a question about this. He says, "Is there going to be a test, or is there going to be an analysis alone?" In that order, therefore, we identify sectors, analyses are made of them and, depending on these analyses, measures may emerge which may involve a test. There may also be other measures; that is what we need to see. Mrs van den Berg also made a heartfelt comment on this reciprocity. I fully agree with that. I've been trying to tell you how we're going to go through with that. So we are doing a number of things ourselves. They are already in our legislation and the Secretary of State for EZK is looking at telecoms in particular, but we also support European initiatives in this area. Specifically the Silk Road. Yeah, she had me there for a second! I hadn't prepared for the Silk Road. That is where we simply need to finish the discussion with the Union and then see how we would like to work with China in this area. But it has also been said that we should not be a priori negative about this, because this too could offer opportunities for the Netherlands. We are and remain a trading country, but we simply need to look more closely at it. In her question about Rijkswaterstaat, I thought I heard the concern that foreign companies are always given orders here, but that we would not get those orders off-shore. Is that the nature of her concern?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u142	You will have a question and you can answer it, Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've always learned: too good is neighbor's crazy. That's what this question is all about. We have here, I think, very nice contracts, Design, Build, Finance, Maintain all together, and international standards. But because other countries do not, it is very easy for companies in other countries to get these projects here at Rijkswaterstaat. Then I say: but there too there is reciprocity. Then our companies in other countries should also have the same access. So the question is: why do we make other companies here as easy as abroad doesn't? That's reciprocity!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u144	On the contrary, the European Procurement Act makes it easy for people within the Union to get back together. The Netherlands is on land, road and water construction. That has nothing to do with whether it's DBFM, DBFMO or whatever. This is only about the form of implementation: whether it is a single job or whether there is a maintenance contract is not the big crux. The Procurement Act guarantees that others here can make offers and we elsewhere. I do not know the latest state of it, but it has been analysed in the past and it has then been established that in all kinds of sectors the Procurement Act gave us a net advantage. It is very visible what foreign companies are gaining from tenders in our country. What is less visible, but very important for exports and very important, is what Dutch companies can do in other European Member States. For example, there is a lot of contracts won by the Netherlands abroad. The analysis at the time indicated that the Netherlands was able to gain significantly more off port in many sub-sectors than it had to grant to others in the interior. Nevertheless, as Europeans, we all benefit from the constant commitment of the best or the sharpest provider in Europe in all the Member States. The assignments we have distributed here by Rijkswaterstaat show a large participation of Dutch companies, but indeed also of foreign companies. They keep each other sharp and thus we monitor the market tension and the price level. It remains the case that Dutch companies also do a lot of things abroad and then it has the same effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u145	Mrs van den Berg, I see you standing by the microphone, but you already had two interruptions and I already gave you the opportunity to ask another question. We are really out of time and we are making the debate very broad, I see. So I'd like to ask the Minister if he can continue his speech. Then there may be a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u146	In the meantime, I have been thinking about the role of the Enterprise Chamber, but I do not remember any concrete commitment to that. Mr Moorlag seems to suggest that a commitment has been made. I have no commitment to that. The Enterprise Chamber oversees the Civil Code. I will pass on the sense of urgency that Mr Moorlag was trying to get through to my colleague, Mr Dekker, for Legal Protection, and he will then have to return to it in the next progress report on the modernisation of company law. I hope that Mr Moorlag's question and his sense of urgency will receive all the attention they deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u147	Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u148	I am referring not so much to a commitment, but to the letter from May last year. It says literally: "Company companies can submit a survey request to the Enterprise Chamber if they consider actions by shareholders to be contrary to the company's interests." Then the letter continues: "It is possible to assess whether the Entrepreneurship Chamber is adequately deployed within the current legal frameworks." I assume that review will be done by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u149	I don't know, actually. There is no doubt that it can be viewed, but I am not aware that it has happened or would happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u150	Perhaps the Minister could come back to this in the second term, briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u151	Let me see if I can't do that alone, but will it happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u152	That's right. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u153	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u154	Look! Thank you. I'll check with the MPs to see if there's still a need for a second term. A lot of questions have already been answered, so I hope that the number of motions is not too bad. I see that the applicant for the debate needs a second time limit, so I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not share the Minister's views on all points, but he has explained the vision. We will discuss this subject at other times. I really want to confine myself to one subject, and I have a motion on it, also because the debate on the European regulation also leaves room for differences of interpretation between the coalition members about the position of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u156	You have exactly one minute for the whole story, so please move the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u157	I'm gonna read to her now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more and more investments are being made by companies outside the EU in Dutch companies;]] [[Whereas there are concerns that certain critical infrastructure and technology fall into the hands of companies outside the EU;]] [[Whereas many countries, including half of all EU Member States, Australia, Canada and the United States have a screening mechanism whereby foreign direct investment is screened for security or public order reasons;]] [[whereas the European Commission has already proposed a regulation establishing a framework for the screening of foreign direct investment in the European Union, harmonising such screening mechanisms within the European Union;]] [[calls on the Government to promote this proposal from the European Commission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29826-99]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u158	Mr Moorlag has the floor for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u159	Mr. Chairman. No motion, but a compliment to the Minister. It is a minister who shows a vision; a vision I can partly agree with. An open economy and open borders are important and lead to prosperity gains. At the same time, I say the word 'globalisation'. Globalisation has led to an increase in prosperity on a global scale, but this prosperity is very unevenly distributed. A limited number of people become millionaires or billionaires and a mass of people are losers of globalisation. I'd like to make that point. It remains necessary for the government not only to pay attention to the owner of the company, to the shareholders, but above all to the employees and to the public interest. In my view, this underlines the need for regulation. I look forward to the legislative proposal that will be submitted with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u160	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Veldman of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u161	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and certainly for his clear presentation of the cabinet's commitment to the communication on the screening proposal from Europe. We support the objective, but we are critical of the regulation. I ask the Minister to speed up his ex-ante analysis and its discussion in the Chamber. That probably helps us, especially when I look at today's discussion. As far as I am concerned, it is perfectly logical that semiconductors are not of vital national importance. A quick analysis, including the measures taken by the cabinet, helps the discussion in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u162	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not think there is a greater difference in view of the economy in the Chamber than between the Minister and me. Foreign investment is not an end in itself for me and my party. Of course, it's fine if they provide jobs, but that doesn't mean that the person who pays can also determine everything within our companies. The Minister says that we are in favour of a Rhineland-Palatinate model, so this is a motion to give him a little support. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in recent years several attempts have been made to take over a Dutch company, whether hostile or not, which led, among other things, to the division of AkzoNobel's chemical branch and Unilever's margarine division;]] [[noting that German workers are able to exert a great deal of influence on company policy;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how in Germany control of employees within listed companies has been established, how German companies are protected against corporate takeover and how these two cases relate to each other and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29826-100]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u164	Mr Alkaya said it is not an end in itself. At the beginning of the debate he mentioned a whole range of Dutch companies that were once or not hostilely taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u165	Is this a response to the motion or are we going to do another discussion? I'm saying this for the sake of time. I feel a new discussion coming up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u166	I have one specific question. The examples of AkzoNobel and Ahold Delhaize were mentioned. My question is whether the SP also thinks that such takeovers are not good, that Dutch companies abroad should not do takeovers either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u167	I believe that companies abroad should also stand up for employee control. That doesn't matter about nationality. Companies abroad are also entitled to participate in the decision-making of employees on this type of acquisition, even if they are taken over by a Dutch company.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u168	Thank you. Then Mr Paternotte for a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, the answer to most of the questions was clear. We also share the vision which the Minister has tried to show. What remained of me was the Minister's answer to the question about information exchange with our American allies. The Minister agrees with us that it is actually extremely relevant to know on what grounds the Americans choose to block a particular takeover based on national security interests. At the same time, he says that they do not give that information and that that is a fact for him. We exchange passenger data with the Americans in the interests of national security and intelligence services exchange information. This information shall not be exchanged. I understand that, but what's the reason why it should stay that way forever? In any case, would it not be obvious at European level to discuss whether it is not desirable, especially in setting up European screening mechanisms, to exchange information? I would like another reply from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u170	Thank you. I am looking at Mrs van den Berg, to see if she still needs a second term. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u171	Thank you, Mr President. I'm still taking advantage of this because of the interruption I couldn't do. Firstly, I would like to thank the Minister for all the answers, but I would like to continue with what he said about the works of Rijkswaterstaat. Would he be willing to send that review to the Chamber one more time? I told you, neighbor's crazy too good. The Minister indicated that in other countries Dutch companies are again benefiting. I should like to remind you of the words of Mr Graus. He said that some companies abroad would not have done so and that it would then fall into foreign hands or that foreign companies would have been awarded jobs. That is why I would like to have that overview.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u172	Thank you. The Minister has indicated that he can immediately answer the questions and give a response to the two motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u173	Mr. Chairman. There have been several insertions. I took it to heart. Mr Paternotte asks me to think more closely about ways of hearing from our ally the considerations behind this safety thing. I must honestly say that I think it seems naive in international or diplomatic traffic to question something like this on the basis of a takeover case such as this. So I don't think I can go along with that for a while, but I still agree with him that it's academically interesting. Mrs Van den Berg asks if I can undertake the overview of Rijkswaterstaat. No, there's no overview of Rijkswaterstaat. There is an insight into the extent to which Dutch or foreign parties have scored in large assignments by Rijkswaterstaat. I'd like to give that to her. The overview I was referring to was for different sub-sectors a few years ago, but I really do that from memory. I do not think I can find that in the pits, but I have taken the view that the Procurement Act certainly works to our advantage. But I will summarize the data I have on Rijkswaterstaat in consultation with the department of Infrastructure and Water State for her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u174	There was another question from Mr Moorlag. It's been hanging on for a while. The question was if it had happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u175	Yeah, if it had happened. Actually, I still don't have that answer. I see here that I will pass something on to Dekker, but he doesn't ask. I'm just checking to see if it happened, and I don't have that answer here. I'm not gonna give him the answer until I get it, and I'm not gonna send him into the woods. He'll get an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u176	You can inform the Chamber in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u177	Yes. That goes together and I'll put that in a note, because it's a very small, factual thing. Two motions have been tabled. In his motion in part No. 99 calls on Mr Van der Lee to put forward 'this' proposal from the European Commission. No. He can also read in the sheet that "this" proposal cannot count on the support of the Netherlands in its entirety and in all its aspects. Moreover, the initiative can count on this. Mr Alkaya asked me in his motion for a resolution on item No. 100 to examine how the control of employees has been established in Germany and to inform the Court of Justice accordingly. I'd advise against that, too. It is well known and everywhere to look up how control works in Germany. If I were to do this, it would also suggest that I intend to come up with changes or consider changes as a result of this, and I am not. So I'm gonna have to be honest with him, too, and I'm gonna have to dissuade this. That brings me to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u178	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-12-tweedekamer-10.u179	We are going to vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. In any case, I would like to thank the Minister and the Members of Parliament for this debate.
