ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Mrs E.L.M. Uijterwaal-Cox. I ask the Members to stand up. On 10 March last, at the age of 97, Lies Uijterwaal-Cox, former senator for the CDA, died. She was a member of the First Chamber from 10 February 1981 to 23 June 1987. Elisabeth Leonora Maria Cox was born on 30 September 1920 in Utrecht, the second of six children. In Utrecht she went through the primary school and the mulo. From 1937 to the beginning of the Second World War, she worked at her father's office, who owned a church art company. After the war, she attended the Roman Catholic School of Social Work in Amsterdam. There she received lessons from Agnes Nolte, in that time a well-known Dutch MP for the KVP. Mrs Uijterwaal-Cox later said about the lessons that Nolte was strict, but at the same time she had the opportunity to make her students understand how important politics was. During her training she was internship with the Utrecht Children's Police and the Dutch Railways. Both organizations were very enthusiastic about her and offered her a job. However, they withdrew the offer immediately when they heard she was engaged in the meantime. At that time it was not possible to work as a married woman. Ms Uijterwaal-Cox then became a volunteer in the Catholic Women's Guild. In this capacity, she herself, like Agnes Nolte, encouraged women to do something in politics, because "you are otherwise decided upon." The political career of Mrs Uijterwaal-Cox began in 1966 when she became a member of the Provincial States of Utrecht on behalf of the KVP. She worked there as a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs for, among other things, unemployed girls. She remained a member of the State until 1982. In the meantime, Mrs Uijterwaal-Cox was elected a member of the First Chamber on behalf of the CDA in 1981. On 10 February 1981, she was sworn in to this Chamber. She dealt with environment, well-being, public health and emancipation policies. In 1987 she strongly criticized the proposed Welfare Act of party colleague and Minister of Welfare, Public Health and Culture, Brinkman. He argued in favour of a "careful" society in which less emphasis should be placed on the role of the government and more on volunteering, neighbourhood and family support. What we might now call the participatory society. In the debate with the Minister, Mrs Uijterwaal-Cox said: "We have to deal with our volunteers carefully. If, at a time when there is a great deal of savings to be made, the emphasis is placed on volunteering, these volunteers will at least have the impression that the aim is for volunteers to be able and have to replace professional work with their work." In addition to her membership of the First Chamber, Ms Uijterwaal-Cox was active as a board member of Hospital Overvecht and a member of the board of directors of the housing association Princess Juliana, both in her hometown Utrecht. She was also chairman of the National Homeless Care and Accommodation Foundation, and the Zon Stichting without worries, who worked on the social problems of overwintering elderly people in Spain. In the Parliament she was also active in the Chamberwide Women's Conference, the CSR, even as chairman in 1985. In that year the KVO presented the book Women and the Binnenhof, which highlights the position of the female MP in 1985. At the presentation of the book on September 11, 1985, Lies Uijterwaal-Cox said that she hoped that date would be seen as the starting point of a new wave movement for the political emancipation of women. In an interview in the book, she discusses her experiences in politics where she was often the only woman to attend committee meetings, but also other occasions: "I was at a dinner the other day. The jubilee's wife got the famous bunch of flowers. She'd done so much for her husband. I said to my table master: now I would like to know what that man has done for the development of his wife. He froze all the way up. The same woman will have a chance to find out that she didn't grow up with her husband. In such a case, I think: did this man ever give her the chance?" After her farewell to active politics, Mrs Uijterwaal-Cox was still on several candidate and election programme committees of the CDA. Until this century, she continued to actively follow politics and the CDA. In the background, because she found "now another generation can do it." Mrs Uijterwaal-Cox had in her political and social life a society in which shared responsibility, stewardship and solidarity continue to work. It has always worked with great dedication to this end. May our respect for her person and her merits for society and Dutch parliamentary democracy be to support her family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
