ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr Wiersma's question on behalf of the VVD to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment on benefit fraud by Polish migrant workers is now on the agenda. I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. I call Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fake applications, false signatures, sometimes 61 entries at one address and also criminals who help you with that. "Polish migrant workers sometimes commit, perhaps massively, benefit fraud," that was the message yesterday from Nieuwsuur. Polish websites with accounting companies where you can get an address for €75 and then for €300 a WW benefit. Let me be very clear: this is, of course, absolutely crazy. The WW is intended for people who work hard here and are unemployed against their will, who need financial support to do their shopping, to take care of their families, to pay for their homes. Of course, the WW is not intended for Polish migrants who use the benefit to go on vacation or to do work. That's shameless. I think the Minister agrees with us and I think the Chamber agrees with us. But then what? What are we going to do about this? I have a number of questions for the Minister. Is it true what Nieuwsuur said? Does this happen on a relatively large scale? And how big is that size? News hours speak of 150 offices and 9,000 people. Can the Minister give us some explanation on this? And, also important: is this really happening in a structured way with, as they say, crooked intermediaries and desks, actually just criminals who have done their job? What has become known about these signals in recent years, both at the UWV and the Ministry? What's been done about that? Can the Minister also give insight into what is known about this, how it has been followed and what is the follow-up approach now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fraud involving benefits is unacceptable. The image that Nieuwsuur put out last night is very serious. I agree with Mr Wiersma. I share the distressed reactions of the Chamber. I myself am shocked and repeat the statement that this is unacceptable. I also have a lot of questions about how this is done. I also saw yesterday the picture of 61 benefits at one address. Then you automatically ask yourself: how is that possible? Fraud, especially in this form, with malicious intermediaries, must not go unpunished. That's why I'm gonna make sure the UWV gets more on top of this. In particular, there is a need for greater control of the rogue intermediaries, and this has not been done enough so far. I will work with the UWV over the next few weeks to see what measures we are going to take, for example additional capacity for control of intermediaries, but also to see if more resources or powers are needed to tackle this effectively. I will keep your Chamber closely informed of the various actions that are now being undertaken, because, like you, I want to know exactly what the facts are. Mr Wiersma has asked a number of specific questions. I cannot go into that at the moment. I asked the UWV this morning to put these facts together as a matter of urgency. I intend to inform you this month about these facts and their assessment. About informing your room. In recent years, it has been customary to inform your Chamber on the main aspects of the enforcement and handling of fraud. This is what happens in the annual report, for example. There was a reason for that, too. On the one hand, we did not want to disrupt the approach of the enforcers. At the same time, we did not want to make the modus operandi, the method of fraudsters. Now that I see the details of this fraud, I find this insufficient. I would therefore like to consult with the Committee on Social Affairs to see how we can better share this kind of socially sensitive information with your Chamber. Perhaps this should be partly confidential, because it can lead fraudsters to do the same. This is in response to the questions put by Mr Wiersma, President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u5	I thank the Minister. If I listen carefully, he strongly condemns this. That seems to me to be exactly the step we need now, but also, of course, an approach. He also says he wants to do it carefully. I get that, and that's what's good for him. He also says that he should inform the Chamber well and perhaps more often, sometimes confidentially. That too is important, I think. I would like to know a follow-up from this Minister on three points. Those studies also talk about how much money is possible. The minister says he needs to investigate that size. We have also seen in a case where a conviction has taken place, that the money is very difficult to recover. Does the Minister agree with us that the possibilities of getting that money back should be the best way to get it back and perhaps extra human resources should be put on it in order to actually get that money back? Are there other points of concern for the prosecution of these fraudsters? For example, falsehood is also found in writing. Can the Minister, if he lets the Chamber know, also take the possible criminal action? Let's talk about these crooked middlemen. They're just criminals, so let's call them criminals. The UWV says, I've read, that it's quite difficult to handle that and to check it properly. Then I wonder whether these intermediaries will be of any use to us at all at the moment. Could the Minister take this question into account in the reports he is going to send to the Chamber on this matter? Soon we may have rigged up a whole bureaucracy and then maybe we'll make it even bigger. That's where our concern lies. Shouldn't we just get rid of it? We are in the process of regulating from Europe. That's where this seems to be getting smoother. It may be that in the future you will be able to export that benefit to Poland more easily, without it being wrong, whereas we find that wrong in the Netherlands, and in this Parliament too, I think. What will the Minister do in Europe to prevent such fraudsters from committing this kind of fraud? This really needs to be curbed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr Wiersma asks a number of specific questions that I want to walk by step by step. Indeed, there have been several investigations in recent years into signs of fraud involving benefits paid by migrant workers. The extent of this problem is difficult to identify. This has to do with the fact that some information is not available. A number of studies have therefore been carried out in recent years. There has indeed been enforcement in recent years. This was partly done by the UWV, which may indeed decide to withdraw a benefit, impose a fine and also recover a benefit. Mr Wiersma is right that this takes a very long time in practice. The debt collection rate is so called that UWV's debt is good after five years, but especially when it comes to people abroad it is in practice very difficult to recover a benefit. By the way, the UWV is tight on top of that. Mr Wiersma's second point concerns the criminal law approach. In Nieuwsuur's news, yesterday it was already referred to the handling of two malicious intermediaries by the Inspection SZW. My main focus is on how we can tackle this group, which, as it were, facilitates fraud. There's a criminal approach to that. That is why the Inspection SZW is also involved, because it can deal with these agencies. The UWV cannot do that, because it is about those who receive a benefit, the beneficiaries. I have answered questions two and three by Mr Wiersma. With his fourth question, Mr Wiersma is also right. In Europe, we have had a discussion over the last few months on social security treaties and Regulation 883. There was a proposal from the European Commission on the exportability of the WW. That is, for the lovers, a different point from what we are talking about today. The Commission has made a proposal to bring this exportability to six months. The position of the Netherlands is that it should remain for three months, precisely because of the fact that when people stay in another country, we cannot check whether they comply with the job application obligation and do their best to get back to work. That is why I have also argued in Europe that we should stick to those three months and not expand it. The way forward is in the hands of the European Parliament, which is going to negotiate that directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you. I am going to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is an important issue, so I would like to devote two interruptions to it. This extensive fraud, which has been detected by Nieuwsuur, has been known since 2012. This has been done by thousands of Polish migrant workers. The first question that arises is: will the Minister do everything in his power to recover the wrongly paid benefits? Because this is devastating for the support for social security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u9	The answer to this clear question is yes. There's something else I'd like to say. Indeed, there have been signals from malicious intermediaries since 2012. In several tranches, the UWV has done research to find out exactly how that happens. It has also become increasingly clear that it has grown over the years. That was also the news report from last night. Once again, the precise details and the facts of all the investigations that have taken place in recent years, I want to have a proper overview first. I'll send that to your room at the end of the month, so you can see what happened at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u10	Which brings us directly to my second question. The case's been going on for six years. The UWV knew about it. The Department of Social Affairs knew about it. The Minister knew about it since 2016. How on earth is it possible that the Chamber has not been informed of such a major fraud? There is no doubt that there is still a debate to be held on this subject, which I shall be asking for in a moment. But now I would like an answer: why didn't you inform us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u11	It's been going on for six years. The first signs of this type of fraud came up at the UWV in 2012. It's been investigated in several rounds. Only recently the size became known, so it's so big. Again, I'm going to send a full overview to your Chamber of which investigations have been carried out and what its findings are. I shall then be happy to enter into the debate with your Chamber, because I think it is right that the Chamber should want to know what is going on. I want to, but I do want to do it carefully, and not just throw some numbers into the Chamber without having had time to check it properly. So if Mr Van Dijk will allow me, I would first like to have the facts and then I would like to have a debate with your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u12	The PVV won't settle for that. As early as 2012, the UWV notes that there are signs that major frauds are being committed. In 2016, if we can believe Nieuwsuur, the Ministry will be informed. That was two years ago. It is shocking what Nieuwsuur brings forward, but now the Minister here says that he cannot inform us and that he does not have the exact figures. How is that possible? How is it that 10,000 Poles deliberately commit fraud with the WW, and that only two of those 10,000 have been convicted? My question to the Minister is: how the hell is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u13	For the sake of completeness, two crooked intermediaries have been convicted, but several beneficiaries have been convicted. They've been fined and their benefits have been withdrawn. But first, I want to know exactly what the facts are and to inform your Chamber properly, before I speculate on them now. Nor is it the case that only two fines have been paid. That is absolutely not the case. But I'd like to get that overall picture before I can see with your Chamber how we're gonna do this in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u14	10,000 Poles can simply commit fraud with the WW. We've seen something like this before, with Turks who could commit massive fraud with the assistance. Now we see with the WW that Poland is committing massive fraud. This minister doesn't do anything after that. I have a question. When is this Minister going to ensure that all the money from all those people who commit fraud is immediately recovered, that a fine is imposed and that, at the time those people are still here in the Netherlands, they are expelled from the country, so that they can never come back here and therefore never get back to work here again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr. De Jong is bringing in a lot now. The policy is, of course, that if fraud is detected, the benefit will be stopped, a fine will be paid and the benefits will be recovered. That is the existing policy. The problem here is precisely that there are structures, with crooked desks that are put in between, which are difficult to detect. As I said in response to Mr Wiersma, I am very motivated to do so, but also to achieve the capacity and legal powers to do so. Again, I'd like to talk to your room shortly to make this possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u16	Everyone is, of course, shocked by the fraud that is taking place at the moment, but I am also shocked by the impotence I see, for example the impotence at UWV. In Nieuwsuur, several employees of course did not report on the record, but off the record, that at the moment they receive such an application, they simply know that it is not right. We know about a terraced house where 61 people with a WW benefit are registered. How can it be that we know, but apparently we don't have an action perspective to do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u17	That is a fair question from Mr Van Dijk. In my first reply, I also indicated that I was shocked last night that this could be done in this way. If you dig deeper, it has to do with systems and practices, but that is precisely what I find so unsatisfactory about this case. That is why I would also like to identify the possibilities for the UWV to deal with this and indeed check how many benefits are sent to one address. Moreover, as far as intermediaries are concerned, it is of course good practice in the Netherlands that they exist. That's what Mr Wiersma just said. Examples include trade unions or family members, who can help in applying for benefits. So you should also be careful not to go crazy in there and not help people out of the rain in the drip. But Mr Van Dijk's point is exactly what surprised me last night. That is why I would like to know more about how we can deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u18	It has been said a few times that this benefit fraud is shocking in substance. What I find at least as shocking is that we as Chamber of Representatives I am a new Member of Parliament, so I am trying to get used to how things are going here, depending on the good journalism of Nieuwsuur to find out. I always thought the House of Representatives was the highest body in our country...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u19	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u20	I hope so, too. I think it's weird. I am therefore looking forward to the Minister's response. How is it that the Ministry has known this for two years, and that we as a Chamber only know this after a broadcast of Newshour? Doesn't the Minister himself mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u21	Firstly, it is indeed good journalism. Compliments for that. I have already mentioned it in my first term: the point is that the information on enforcement policy and the information sent to your Chamber via the UWV and the Social Insurance Bank is often broad. There is also a reason for this, namely that these kinds of constructions are very specific. This information concerns not only constructions with Polish migrant workers, but also constructions in other sectors, in specific thematic areas. If you disclose such a method, you give people the opportunity to commit fraud. That is why we often communicate on the broad lines of enforcement policy and its accountability. And I just said in the first term: when I see the details of this case, I find that insufficient. That is why I would like to look for a way of informing the Chamber on those thematic, specific points too, perhaps confidentially about what we are seeing and what we want to do to address something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u22	If we want to keep our good social services, we must not prevent this kind of thing, not at all. We used to have the method that people had to report weekly; it was called "stamping." If the Minister is going to reply to the Chamber, can he ask whether this method, whereby foreign workers have to report every week, is not the way to prevent this kind of fuss? I would like a response from the Minister: how does he view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mrs. Van Brenn is right. In the past it was indeed the case that a visit had to be made every week. Because of the capacity at the UWV itself, this was abandoned a few years ago. The ways in which we can better control this, I will certainly include in the answers to the Chamber before the end of this month.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u24	A suggestion has just been made. If the Minister gives a picture of how everything went, will he take into account how his predecessors dealt with it? Because we see parties now react very surprised, but there are a lot of people who knew about this and never informed the Chamber about it. If the Minister would like to give this further consideration, we would appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u25	I have just said that I think that the Chamber has been briefed on the main points, but that is not enough in this context, because it does not exactly indicate which structures we are facing. I'm gonna go with you and find a way to do that. I will share with your Chamber the investigations that have been done over the past few years, by the UWV and the Inspection SZW, to show you what happened. In doing so, I hope to give an idea of the developments in recent years, in order to meet Mrs Van Brenk in her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u26	Thanks to Newsuur's investigative journalism, we were all able to see last night the seriousness and extent of this appalling fraud, but also the almost visible pleasure with which it is carried out. Maybe that's what I thought was the worst part of the broadcast. If you see the nature and extent, it is very much the question of whether this fraud has so far been sufficiently valued. This only increases the need to act decisively and vigorously against it. I have the impression that the Minister is aware of this, according to the commitments he has made here. I agree with Mr Van Dijk that we should also have a debate on this. I have a question along the lines of Mr Gijs van Dijk's question. I would like the Minister not only to address the questions of the VVD as to whether there is sufficient capacity and what possibilities there are for more action. I would also like the letter to explicitly address the barriers that are being faced...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u27	Mr. Heerma...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u28	... to be able to effectively enforce when it comes to privacy and risk-driven research, for example. Can that be shared with the room?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u29	I'd certainly like to do that. I would also like to mention the practical obstacles in the current way of working, which make it difficult in practice to establish the link between address and benefits, as Mr Gijs van Dijk said. That's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u30	Shameless, that's for sure. I hope this isn't the tip of the iceberg. My supplementary questions to the Minister are: do you have any signals that this is going to be wider than the fraud that was brought to light yesterday by Nieuwsuur and are you prepared to investigate this further and to inform the Chamber further?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u31	I do hope this isn't the tip of the iceberg. Social security and benefits are always the subject of benefit fraud, unfortunately. You can also see that in time new, more creative ways of benefit fraud are being found. That is why the UWV and the Inspection SZW are constantly working to map and tackle this type of new forms. This is a broader issue: it is not only about Polish labour migration, but also about other issues. I would like to share these themes with your Chamber and discuss them for once, but it has to be in a confidential setting, because it concerns very specific situations, which we do not really want to see widely known in the outside world, because we do not want people to think about becoming a fraudster. So, together with the SZW committee, I would like to give the UWV the opportunity to explain that enforcement strategy and that theme in order to give Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan a better picture of what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u32	I believe that the whole Chamber agrees that this fraud is unacceptable and should be dealt with. I welcome the fact that this Minister wishes to inform the Chamber further and is going to see how we can be better informed about fraud without giving the criminals the right idea. I have a question about the letter that was promised. I would also like to see information on capacity, on whether, for example, a link can or should be made with the additional funds from the Labour Inspectorate's government agreement. After all, they were planned to combat labour market fraud. And as for the UWV: if there are bottlenecks there, if necessary but with a business case, but make sure that people are there, so that trust in social security and acceptance are not undermined.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u33	I very much agree with that. The capacity of both the UWV and enforcement as well as the Inspection SZW is a very important asset. In the past year this has been a bottleneck for both the UWV and the inspection SZW. In the coalition agreement, we allocated 50 million extra to the inspection SZW. It is an interesting question for the UWV to see how the capacity relates to the challenges the UWV sees. I will take it with me in the letter to the Chamber scheduled for the end of this month.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-3.u34	Thank you.
