ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u1	The next item is the debate on the decision by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, whom I welcome in the Chamber, on gas extraction in Groningen. In particular, I would like to welcome the people of Groningen to the public gallery and say'moi' to them. I now call on you not to express your disapproval or approval in any way during the debate, however difficult it may be. But welcome. This also applies to those people who, in a way other than in the public gallery, may be on the Internet; I also understand that there are screens downstairs following the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks as the first speaker. Speaking time is six minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my deep respect for the courage, perseverance and resilience of the Groningen people. It is their perseverance that has been crucial for the historic decision to turn off the gas tap of the Groningen field. I also think it brave of the minister, the cabinet and the coalition that they have done that political act. That means a lot. At the same time, other politicians have preceded them. In particular, I am thinking of my colleague, Liesbeth van Tongeren, in the course of this debate, she will be installed as alderman here in The Hague, who has fought for this and many other steps for years with great knowledge and very constructiveness and with the Groningers. Our thanks to her are very great. Some modesty fits me, because I have great footsteps to follow and have had very little working time. You don't have to take that into account, by the way. Mr. Chairman. It is a cliché, but today it is very appropriate: trust comes on foot and goes on horseback. Turning off the gas tap was a big step in restoring confidence. But why did the minister jump on that horse so suddenly in that urgent reinforcement operation? I don't understand. For a long time we have received numerous personal and collective emergency messages from Groningers. Recently, for example, Mr Van der Gaag from Overschild described what it does to you when you live in a house full of cracks, where every sound and every movement scares you. A human being has a huge need for a safe home, a home: the place where you can withdraw from the hectic outside world in security with your neighbors. But if you are already not safe there and have to endure it for years, it almost permanently feels as if the ground underneath you disappears. The Minister must know that. Why the escalation of the second batch of 1,588 homes, for which the final reinforcement advice could be known at any time? There was also a compromise on the table. Why wasn't that good enough for the minister? He could also have chosen to continue the trajectory of those 1,588 houses and leave it to residents themselves whether they would need a second opinion after that new advice on the possible reduction of seismic effects by turning off the gas tap. Then you keep the residents at the wheel. Then they can make those choices themselves. I don't understand why he took that step. I expect a better explanation from the minister than the one he gave at Buitenhof. He talked about two evils: you have to choose between them and then you always choose an evil. But he tried to explain three options, and that only created confusion. If, on the basis of all the information he has, the Minister, he has much more information than we have in the Chamber, he thinks he is absolutely right, why didn't he choose to invite the people who live in those 1,588 houses to a conference room, to explain to them what his dilemma is, to include them in those choices? That is also at the heart of the new state information policy, if I have understood correctly. Nor do I understand the fact that existing agreements are being interfered with. It is possible to re-calibrate six-monthly when it comes to the reinforcement operation. But in another area I am talking about the very important assessment of the future market demand for gas......................................................................................................................................................... We know that it does not include all the comments from the coalition agreement, all the plans and what happened afterwards. That needs to be more up-to-date. Will the Minister ensure that we are given an up-to-date assessment of the Mining Act? The role of the NAM is also crucial. The interview report shows a greater role. If the model works completely automatically, then anyone can control it. But apparently there is also room for influence on how you put the data in it and how you interpret the outcomes. Can the Minister guarantee once and for all that this role of the NAM is not and will not be there anymore? Groningers need a lot of security. It's about security about the reinforcement operation. I hope that you will come back to your decision and at least acknowledge that communication has not gone well and should not be repeated in this way. In addition, it is a question of certainty about liability. Is it complete, so both for the damage and for the reinforcement operation? It is also about certainty about what is agreed with the companies, completely transparent. For example, has an agreement been made with companies on an additional investment deduction for the small fields, from 25% to 40%? How much is that? And is that part of a deal, yes or no? Are we getting an insight into that? Those are the questions to the minister I have. Of course there are many more questions. We are going to have a lot of debates in this area, including on the Mining Act and on the progress of gas extraction. I'm also concerned about the industrial movements. I hear a lot of noises from the so-called industrial table that there is no movement. Will the Minister personally see to it that industry moves? Contact and conversations are nice, but I haven't seen a single concrete commitment yet to move forward to get rid of the gas. I'll leave it at that. I also want the Minister to try to clarify what is going to happen in those other operations, around the village renewal, and about the new perspective for Groningen. I hope that we will be able to discuss this further in the future. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u4	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u5	Mr. Chairman. I find it very painful to see how much is being destroyed in my province. That's how I started my first contribution to the House of Representatives last year. How incredibly painful and unbeatable is it that a year later we haven't made any progress? Trust and security are farther away than ever, said researchers from the University of Groningen yesterday. Groningers feel anxious, angry and powerless, and their hope disappears. They want action. And then we see a minister who is further embarrassing the confidence and arguing with everyone with whom he should solve this disaster. I told you about Annie, Hanneke and Sijbrand last year. Now, a year later, I asked them how they're doing. Last year I said, "It's the politics that makes it happen that Annie doesn't know how to proceed. Annie's 66, her husband's 67. They own a residential store in Loppersum. They live above it. The store's broken, sales dropped by 60%. Their pension, for which they have worked their whole lives, is gone. The house has serious damage and at the door there is a briefcase, in case the big blow comes." A year later, no damage to her shop and home was repaired. The frustration and grief in the village have grown a hundred times this year, says Annie now. Last year I said: "It's the politics that makes it happen that Hanneke's dream house was demolished from 33 to the ground, the house where she married and had children. Two years ago, she heard she needed to be demolished at home. Two years of fighting followed: with the NAM and with the Centre Safe Living. Appointments weren't kept, promises weren't kept. Not only has her home been demolished, she has also lost the feeling of being safe, she has lost the feeling that it will be okay." And a year later? "We still live in fear," says Hanneke. "The cracks are already in this house and in ourselves. After every quake, there will be a new tear in our souls. My mother's heart weeps when I see how scared my children are, but also about all the time with my family that has been taken from me," says Hanneke. She wants to leave. "I want another house that really is a home." Last year I said: "It is the politics that makes it happen that farmer Nijhoff here in the Lower House distributes his wife's moving card. After 46 years of marriage, they have a latting relationship. That's not because they don't love each other anymore. They love each other, but because they don't dare live in their unsafe home anymore. For the restoration of the house must be fought for years." Nothing has changed for Sijbrand Nijhoff either. The damage hasn't been repaired. His house is still unsafe. His lawsuit's jammed. And that generous offer of compensation that the Minister promised to all the victims of old damages? He didn't get that. Minister Wiebes started his ministry by saying about the disaster in Groningen: this is Dutch government failure of non-Dutch proportions. And: The Hague is not going to decide what happens in Groningen. Less than six months later, Minister Wiebes has increased government failure and The Hague decides what happens in Groningen by unilaterally canceling agreements. This led to anger among municipalities, provinces and civil society organisations and the resignation of Hans Alders. Does the Minister agree with us that the unilateral withdrawal of agreements is inappropriate administration? Is the Minister prepared to reverse this completely? The NAM has, gets and deserves no place at the table. That is a statement by Minister Wiebes last Friday in the media and against the Chamber. But a discussion report with Hans Alders shows that the NAM is not only at the table, but is given a bigger role by leading their model for the reinforcement operation. What's true now? What you said to the Chamber or what Mr Alders said and is in a discussion report signed by your sg? This is a tough point for my party. We want a minister to solve this disaster. This can only be done if the Minister does not rush through a porcelain cabinet like an elephant and if the Minister lets the Chamber do its job as controlling power by providing her with information; the right information. There is now not only uncertainty about the role of the NAM, but also about the liability and who is going to pay what. Hero Sijbrand Nijhoff has already made public twice secret contracts between the State and Shell and Exxon. The Minister refuses to send these contracts and new agreements to the Lower House. As a result, we cannot do our job as representatives of the people. The Council of State also concludes this week. We don't know who will be liable for damages and reinforcements. Do you sit up and give your feet to Shell, as you did when they asked for the dividend tax to be abolished? Or are you fighting to get NAM, Shell and Exxon to pay their fair share because they're guilty of causing disaster like the State? Mr. Chairman. I ask the Minister once again: do you make public all the old and new contracts and agreements with Shell and Exxon so that we can do our job? Finally, Mr President. I find it really incomprehensible that we are still at this point. Annie, Hanneke and Sijbrand are not alone. Thousands of Groningers feel abandoned, are in uncertainty, have lost the feeling of having solid ground under their feet, have lost the feeling that the government is there for them and is going to solve this. A few weeks ago, I was visiting Raisa Thybaut. Her house has become so unsafe that she lives in a shack. She said, "First I lost my base, but I still had hope. That's when I could hold on. Now I've lost my hope too." Mr. Chairman. Not only Groningers feel anxious about what's going to happen. In the coming period new gas extraction is being started in many places or already existing gas extraction is being stepped up, in some places by fracking. Also in and around Woerden, Nij Beets, Ternaard, Waalwijk, Pieterzijl and Warder, residents are worried about whether their safety is not sacrificed for profit hunger. Mr. Chairman. Last year I ended up like this: "Room, how long are we gonna let this happen?" I shouldn't think that we'll be back here in a year's time and we'll have to jump to the same conclusion again. Chamber and Minister, how much longer are we gonna let this happen? Beautiful words and promises aren't enough. You can't live in it safely. Groningen wants action, not chaos, not politics. Mr. Chairman. The Minister cannot continue to train and fight. The only thing the Minister can do is astound us and this time choose not only word but also action for Groningen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u7	I thought I'd just made an appointment with you! I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u8	Mr. Chairman. We have strict rules on noise that cannot be made from the public gallery, but I understand that people feel that need. This is yet another debate we are having on Groningen. Hundreds of motions have been tabled on Groningen. I can very well imagine that people are done with it. Finished with the insecurity, the uncertainty and the impact it has on your health. I also notice that, as I believe is the case with all the spokesmen on this file, when we visit people's homes in Groningen. Mr. Chairman. In March, this cabinet made a historic decision: we stop completely extracting gas from the Groningenveld. We take away the cause of the tremors completely. That's the only way to truly guarantee the safety of Groningers. The reduction of gas extraction can go quickly, the Minister reports. We can halve the extraction in two and a half years and get to zero much faster than we thought. Let me be clear about the NAM: financial compensation for gas remaining in the ground is not negotiable. Mr. Chairman. When I see how fast we can lower gas extraction now, it gives me a double feeling. I am glad that we can achieve results in such a short term, but with me and with many Groningers there is also disbelief. Why can't we do it now? Why weren't these options in the picture before? How is it that the previous minister kept calling for security of supply? I'd like to hear from this minister how he looks at that. Mr President, then the reinforcements. The fact that we are going to stop gas extraction is a good decision for a safe future, but Groninger's already damaged will not be of any use. They rightly want damage to be dealt with properly and unsafe houses simply to be strengthened, without the NAM, with the region and for the Groningen. Mr. Chairman. By stopping gas extraction, we remove the cause of the earthquakes, but those tremors don't stop overnight. Here in The Hague is perhaps too much thought: we stop winning gas and then it's okay. But it's not. Too much has happened, too much uncertainty has happened and too many promises have been made. In addition, the KNMI warns that there are still years of risk and that the blows of these tremors can also be more severe. D66 therefore wants to continue to strengthen Groningen. Every unsafe house in Groningen needs to be reinforced. The question is not whether but just how. Can the Minister confirm that again? I think the Groningers are right to ask me why this reduced gas extraction is relevant to the question of how we are going to strengthen. My answer is: I hope that this reinforcement can be less profound, that we need to demolish fewer houses, that we can better preserve the souls of cultural historical places, and that families need less time from home to strengthen their home. But under the line, we always have to do what's necessary in the end. There is right to pay special attention to a group of 1,588 homes, a group of which I have been to many people's homes. Imagine being one of those families. You've had all kinds of inspectors on the floor. You had to tell your kids that their house isn't safe anymore, and now you have to wait a little longer for reinforcements. That delay leads to unrest, mistrust and stress. You're just tired of waiting. And I totally understand that. That is why I ask the Minister: can he clarify to these families as soon as possible after 1 July what happens to their homes, demolition/rebuilding or strengthening? The inhabitants of these houses, that batch of 1,588, are not only confronted with security uncertainty, but also had other expectations of that reinforcement operation in terms of sustainability, neighbourhood approach and viability. Does the cabinet, apart from the security reinforcement, see any other grounds to mean anything to this group of people? D66 wants the minister to make arrangements with the region so that these houses can be dealt with, with the Groningers themselves directing the adjustments to their homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u9	I thought Mr Jetten had a good speech. However, I was hoping to draw the conclusion that he would be able to tell the people who have already been promised that their house will be strengthened, for example in Overschild, where half of them will be strengthened and the other half will not, that he would like to clarify today rather than wait until 1 July and then have all kinds of technicians look at it again, which will then take months and perhaps another year. Why doesn't D66 choose that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u10	That was also my question to the Minister. I really want him to explain to those people right after 1 July whether there will be demolition/new construction or any other degree of reinforcement. For every house in that 1.588 group that is unsafe, there is only one solution: to make it safe. The Minister asked, because of that historic decision of the reduction in gas extraction, to give him a few more weeks. I understand that for a lot of people this feels very annoying and perhaps even unacceptable, but I have just tried to explain that with the Minister I hope that we can perhaps come to the conclusion for a number of people that there can be less radical or more appropriate reinforcement. I would like to give that space to the Minister for a number of weeks, but after 1 July there must be immediate clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u11	That does not feel unacceptable, that is unacceptable! That is what Mr Alders said here yesterday. It's just people's rights they claim. It is an illusion that I really want to tell Mr Jetten to think that when there is a new macro norm on 1 July, people will have clarity. Because houses need to be inspected again and there must be builders again, while there are already too few builders and it is already busy. So that's gonna take a long time. Then you can say that it must be done quickly, but we cannot determine that here. And that is the uncertainty that this minister is creating and where D66 has the key to doing something about it today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u12	Let me then use this rightful interruption by Mr Nijboer for a sharper question to the Minister. If it turns out on 1 July that there is no clarity for houses in that group, then I think we are falling back on the existing agreements. I'd like that guarantee from the Minister. Clarity for all those houses right after July 1st is the least we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u13	I really have one more question about this. We spoke extensively with Mr Alders yesterday. He also indicates: this is not a random batch of homes, these are the weakest homes. You yourself indicate that the research that is going to be done is going to contain a lot of uncertainties. And the gas extraction will go on for a while. The flat production is delayed. We're gonna get a lot more changing footage. So there can't be that certainty on July 1st. When it comes to the weakest houses, why do you accept the Minister's intervention?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u14	I shall be speaking in a moment about the houses other than those 1,588, because these 1,588 homes are now unsafe and will remain unsafe. The same applies to all groups that come after that. So the most important deal is that every unsafe house in Groningen is reinforced. That is what the Minister has said in the media over the last few days, and I assume that he will also confirm here in this Chamber that every unsafe house in Groningen will be strengthened. The Minister only asked for a few extra weeks to see if this reinforcement could be arranged in a slightly different way. In my opinion, this also does justice to questions, appeals, concerns that have been expressed earlier from Groningen, that the reinforcement that may lead to mass demolition and new construction in Groningen also strikes the soul from Groningen. The Minister sees an opportunity to organize that in a smarter way. All I'm doing is giving him the room to take advantage of that opportunity, but I'm saying it very clearly: if on 1 July there is no clarity for those homes in that 1,588 group, then the old agreements are in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u15	I think that the soul is beaten out of Groningen by promises in words over and over and over again but which are not fulfilled in deeds. Now we are on the verge of achieving an act, yet there is still delay and uncertainty. Needless to say. They're incredibly weak homes. I think you are right to reconsider your position and to ask the Minister, together with the opposition, to reconsider his decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u16	I would like to read a quote from CDA mayor Albert Rodenboog, who said yesterday: "Minister Wiebes is engaged in improper administration." He also said: "It makes it clear once again that the security of the inhabitants is entirely subordinate to other interests and that uncertainty about necessity and degree of approach is placed as a burden on residents." What do you think about the Minister's one-sided termination of agreements and arguing with the municipality, the province and Hans Alders?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u17	I should like to return to the cooperation with the region and the departure of the NCG. I get that people are mad at this minister right now. This Minister also has the impossible task of smoothing out the gas extraction dossier. But I see that we have spent hundreds of hours here in this Chamber in the previous cabinet over the last few years, but nothing has happened. This minister is here for over six months. We've reached a historic agreement on a new damages protocol, without the NAM. We have made a historic decision, namely: we are going to stop all gas extraction in Groningen. With these two decisions, this Minister has shown me that he wants the best for the Groningen people on this dossier. I agree with you that he may not have been so helpful in communication over the past few weeks and that he should have been more involved with the region. But I'm not going to say here right now that this minister isn't here for the Groningen. I'm giving this minister a few more weeks to get a good deal on the reinforcement operation. In addition, the mission is to strengthen every unsafe house.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u18	A little communication error, and you're supporting the Minister. The region is opposed to the Minister. Let me ask you again: how can we ever solve this disaster if the Minister unilaterally cancels agreements with the region? That's not just a little communication error, is it? This is a huge problem, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u19	I did not want to trivialize it, so I apologize to Mrs Beckerman if I have just given that impression. Of course, this is a huge problem. These are people in Groningen who have been in uncertainty for years, and we now have to cut to the chase. For me, too, it is important for the Minister to use the crisis of recent weeks to sit down again with the mayors, with the municipalities, with the provinces and with the residents' organisations, and to ensure that we set up a reinforcement operation that strengthens all unsafe houses in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u20	I understand that, through Mr Jetten, D66 agrees or forgives the fuss and the Minister's new crisis situation, because he hopes that there will be a better solution, without indicating that that better solution could have been found without breaking that agreement. That's very special. I have no questions for Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u21	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u22	Mr. Chairman. In addition to the 1.588 homes that I have just mentioned and on which I would like to know from the Minister whether he sees other reasons to mean something for that group, there is also a third group, with 1,581 houses. The inspections were already underway, but the engineering was recently paused by EZK. I thought it was unwise and unnecessary to cause unrest. I am therefore relieved that the Minister has allowed himself to be persuaded by the region on this point to continue to calculate all the houses in that batch of 1,581 houses. Mr. Chairman. A lot's happened in the last few weeks. That didn't do any good with the confidence in the reinforcements. The administrative consultation was stalled, the National Coordinator Groningen quit and the NAM still seems to have too much influence. The Minister's mandate is therefore clear. Put the NAM completely away at the backup. Repack the cooperation with municipalities, provinces and residents' organisations. With the region appoint a new National Coordinator, who has sufficient mandate to achieve results for the Groningers. Only this will provide a reinforcement operation that is genuinely of and for the Groningers. Mr President, I will conclude. All Groningers are entitled to a safe home, but Groningers have lost faith in recent years, the confidence that the government is there for them and stands up for their safety. Mrs Beckerman also said it: Groningers cannot live in nice talk. It is now up to the Minister, after the new damage protocol and the cessation of gas extraction, to make the reinforcement operation smooth again, without the NAM, with the region and for the Groningers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u23	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Less than six months ago, we stood here with this Minister discussing the national disaster that took place in Groningen. We were all, after many years of misery under Minister Kamp, moderately positive. There was even talk of the "starre camp" and the "flexible Wiebes." But probably we cheered too early, because Kamp of Wiebes, in the end it's all one pot wet: turning and not meeting appointments. Even the National Coordinator Groningen couldn't take it anymore and gave it the bribe. We can still hear the Minister say that the damage would finally be dealt with and that terrible NAM, who has only frustrated and trained, would finally stop interfering. The NAM only has to pay, that's what the creed said. But a discussion report from a week ago between the Ministry, the National Coordinator and the NAM showed something quite different, despite all the Minister's beautiful, anointing words. The NAM still determines which buildings should be first strengthened. The NAM still decides. The NAM even provides a real calculation model, as the Minister has confirmed. Think of it as a kind of pre-filled Excelsheet, which can be calculated as low a compensation as possible. According to the minister, there's nothing wrong, but according to the National Coordinator, the NAM is just sitting at the table. Mr President, how is this possible? Has the Minister been lying in previous debates? A week ago, the Minister announced that he wanted to make a legal commitment that the NAM should not interfere, but what would be needed if the NAM, as the Minister said earlier, had long since lost its say? Mr. Chairman. 6,000 old damage cases are unfortunately not covered by the new damage protocol. These duped are thus still at the whims of the NAM. Since then, they have received letters in which they are shipped with a much lower amount than the actual damage. That's outrageous, and it's like some kind of blackmail. People get pressured and bought off with a tip. To be very direct and honest, that is the fault of this minister. You, Minister, wanted it that way. You could have prevented it all by including the old damage cases under the new damage protocol. But you didn't want to. This is the result: the injured are served with a shred of their actual damage. Will the Minister now give the victims a very concrete guarantee that they will no longer be shipped off by the NAM with some pocket money, but will receive full compensation? If you think you've had it all then, the National Coordinator has also quit. He blames the minister for not meeting and says: that's enough, this is about the credibility of the government for the citizen. Credibility which has been lacking for years and which this minister has only stepped into the ground over the past few months. The PVV has often said in the past that the National Coordinator is actually a kind of errand boy of this minister. And it turns out to be. His opinions were not listened to and he was only used by the Minister as some kind of bad news bringer. What the Groningers need is not an extension of this minister, but an independent coordinator who only has an eye for the interests of Groningen. The PVV therefore proposes to let the Groningen choose the new coordinator completely democratically, someone who enjoys their trust. Can the Minister respond to that? For three years Mr Alders hobbled along, until he himself couldn't handle it anymore, when it was decided not to strengthen 1,588 homes against all agreements in the meantime. Why not? The Minister suddenly wants to wait for yet another investigation, because perhaps less reinforcement is needed now that gas extraction is being phased out. It is all cheap excuses to keep the Groningers on a leash, because the Minister himself knows very well that the earthquakes will not stop overnight. How is the Minister going to prevent these houses from being sufficiently strengthened and then found out in a number of years' time: oops, there is another quake, we would have made them really earthquake-proof? As I said, the so-called flexibility of this minister is in fact nothing left after a few months. For example, the Groningers are even further away from home: no reinforcement, no compensation, no confidence, no National Coordinator, but a minister who is still at the table with the NAM. And it's only gonna get worse, I say. What has come to our attention is that Aedes, the umbrella organization of housing corporations, has been informed by its members in Groningen that the landlord's tax on housing corporations will be increased in order to finance the reinforcement in Groningen. That's right, that's what I'm asking the Minister. At least it would be too bizarre for words. It would mean that the account to be paid by the NAM would end up on the tenants' sign. Again, that's bizarre. Can the Minister rule out that this is going to happen, or is the misery in the coming months and years only getting worse? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u25	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During the time that I have been allowed to speak on energy policy in our country, I have been able to visit Groningen regularly and I have spoken to Groningers many times, just as Groningers from quake areas. I welcome them all, although I may not address them directly. Sorry, Chairman! Mr. Chairman. I can give you this. What Groningers are asking of us here in The Hague is really not much and certainly not unreasonable. They want clarity, security and security. They want to be able to move on with their lives and they don't want to be busy day and night with claims, damages, reinforcement reports and inspections. They want to be able to offer their children safety in a safe home, just like any other Dutchman. Mr. Chairman. There is only one way to deal with this for the Groningen people, namely by removing the cause of the earthquakes and the insecurity. The extraction of gas from the Groningenveld will be completed as soon as possible. This cabinet goes beyond the State surveillance of the Mines has advised and frankly it goes even further than the electoral programs of most parties here. With this decision we respond to a pressing wish of the Groningen people. Today we are talking about how we can reduce gas extraction as quickly as possible. This is not easy, given that in our country almost all households depend on gas from Groningen. This also applies to many households in Belgium, France and Germany and to a large number of companies. So today the gas tap can't be turned off. There's a lot of work to be done to get this thing together, and that's what we want. The safety of the Groningers is paramount and so we're gonna settle this with each other. Mr. Chairman. I have four questions for this minister: security, trust, security of supply and costs. I'd like to start with safety. As has been said, we are really taking this decision for the safety of the Groningen people and I very much hope that the reduction in gas extraction will also significantly reduce the risk of tremor. That's what we do it for. And I should also like to hope that this will ultimately mean less damage, less uncertainty and less need for a large-scale far-reaching reinforcement operation. But the fact is that we don't know at the moment what the effect will be of phasing out. The Minister said earlier in several places: the question is not whether we are going to continue with the reinforcement operation, but at most how. As there has been so much noise and uncertainty about this, please confirm once again from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Four independent organisations are investigating how to proceed. July 1st, the investigation is on the table and then we can cut through the substance. I would like to make a few things very clear here on behalf of the VVD. As far as we are concerned, before the summer we offer real clarity to the Groningers on how to proceed. That will also be our approach to the debate that we will have on this at the beginning of July. So don't wait another year after that, do more research and you name it! I'd like a response from the Minister on how he sees this. In addition, the Minister has already made it clear that he is going to legally regulate that the NAM is going away everywhere. This is a very important point for the VVD. The NAM doesn't belong at the table. I'd like a response from the Minister. How and when will this be regulated by law? Mr. Chairman. Over the last few days, we have talked a lot about trust with each other and, in fact, about the lack of it. I am now saying to the people of Groningen who are here or who are watching at home: I am well aware that I cannot say anything now, so that I can take away the years of uncertainty and growing distrust of whether we are in the best interests of you. You just don't have that much to say, but you do have a lot to do. So we're gonna stop the gas extraction. That does not mean that we stop rebuilding Groningen, because Groningen deserves perspective. That doesn't mean we're gonna stop the reinforcements. From the most important criterion, namely safety, we continue. But I understand perfectly well that, in addition to security, security for Groningers is at least as important. Not knowing what you're up to for so long seems awful to me. People who were making plans about their future or their home now have to wait again and that is intense. I would like to ask the Minister whether there is any way of meeting the people of Groningen even better in this area. Does the Minister see any other things he can do to remove the uncertainty of 1,588 households apart from security? These are households that have rightly been very much about and are awaiting a final decision. Mr. Chairman. There has been a lot of talk about Groningers, but especially when it comes to your own future, about strengthening your home and the choices you have to make, it is essential that we talk with the Groningers. I would therefore like to see the Minister making explicit mention of the freedom of choice in this area in the plans. I'm considering filing a motion on that part. I would also like to call on all the directors, at every level, of every colour, to stop taking part in the political mess. That doesn't help any Groninger. Stay at the table with each other and arrange this for the Groningers. Mr. Chairman. I have a few more questions about security of supply. While we are rapidly reducing gas extraction in Groningen, security of supply in our country must of course not be compromised. People shouldn't be in the cold. This sounds like an open door, but in order to guarantee this, a lot of action is needed. We received a letter from the Minister last night stating that the phasing out of Groningen gas could be even faster. He expects to be below the level advised by the SodM by 2020. Can he elaborate on this? So what's that tempo? Is there any need for additional resources for this? I would also like to know how he intends to inform the Chamber about the progress of these measures. I think I have an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u27	I actually wanted to suggest that you conclude your speech and then everyone will have the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the last part: the costs. You have heard the Prime Minister say, you have heard the Minister say: the costs are not leading. Security is leading, and we're holding on to that. But of course it is necessary to understand the total costs, especially because we really want to make the plans we are talking about today a reality. There are many aspects to this picture, such as the reduction of natural gas revenues, the investment costs of the transition, new import contracts and so on. Can the Minister go into this and perhaps give us when he expects to have that overall picture around? That was him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u29	I don't really have a question, but more of a comment. I've been around here for over five years now, so I'm pretty sure I know when there's something to get. But when it is said that directors have to stop fighting to regain confidence in Groningen, and there is also being pointed out, well, I can't address the public to mayors, aldermen and residents, then my pants will fall off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u30	I'd like to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u31	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u32	No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u33	There was certainly no reference to residents. What I myself find very frustrating about the way things have been over the past few weeks is that everyone has it far beyond the inhabitants, while I say that we should talk with the inhabitants. It's about the Groningers, about our Groningers, what we can do for them and what steps are needed for that. I call everyone, of any colour, in any place, in any seat: center the Groningers and arrange this. If you don't support that call, that's your choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u34	The Prime Minister said there's money for Groningen as long as it takes. That's very clear, and we're going to hold him to that, too. What is new is the advice of the Council of State to give priority to security over security of supply. You spoke of security of supply. Where's the VVD? Does it share the opinion of the Council of State on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u35	The safety of the Groningers is central and that is why we are going to reduce the gas extraction to zero. The pieces that are before us today also describe how we can do this most quickly, in a way that nobody in Groningen or the rest of the Netherlands will then be in the cold. I think that's exactly how this is done. We received a letter yesterday from the Minister stating that he can also arrange it much faster than we all thought so far, so for the past two months. So it's moving fast. I would like to do it in such a way that we can simply switch there to other forms of gas, other facilities, other forms of energy supply, where Groningen gas is no longer needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u36	I note that the VVD is avoiding the question. Of course, security is central, but the Council of State says it must be priority over security of supply. Does the VVD share that advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u37	Again, we are standing here because the safety of the Groningers is a priority and we are going to reduce to zero. So no gas is being extracted in the short term. I just asked the Minister what the new calculations say about the deadline. You ask: are you willing to shut down companies from gas, shut down households, shut down hospitals? I don't think that's what we're talking about here. I don't think that's the way we should go together. I think we'll be back in this room very soon, because companies are going bankrupt and people are going to be unemployed. And this doesn't have to be like this. It can return to zero in the very short term. I think that's exactly what we're doing. Let us not add all kinds of new dimensions that are not here at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u38	I can't just sit here anyway. Mrs Yeşilgöz of the VVD then talks about political hacking. One big mess is in Groningen, and then she dares say that. I'd say put your hand in your own bosom. The biggest problem at the moment is this minister, your minister, your VVD minister. The biggest problem is also your party, the VVD, which even decided in the previous cabinet, in 2013, to increase gas extraction, with all the misery it caused. Now the VVD dares to blame the Groningen people for the chopping. Then I would like to ask Mrs Yeşilgöz: what are all your fine words really worth?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u39	I'll repeat it for the third time. I've said to every driver, at every level, of every color: stop, sit at the table and arrange this for the Groningers. You cannot agree with that, but I think that is the only way out of ensuring that there is security for the people, and that there is security for the people. So I'm also asking my own minister here: how are things going there, pick that up and just go deal with that region. You heard. And honestly, when I look at how we're all in it today, I don't know why I can't. I'd like to make this call. I'd like this to be taken care of. I do not want to see a discussion going on for months. No need. We want that safety. We're gonna pull down to zero. We want that certainty. I asked very clear questions about that. We don't want that NAM at the table. I think we all really want the same thing. Then stop playing political games. Don't. Minister, sit down with the region. Region, please, sit down at the table and settle this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u40	Just one more time. You're talking about all the drivers. All drivers are actually quite in agreement. Doesn't the VVD just want to admit that it's your minister who unilaterally breaks the deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u41	Since it is so immediately asked whether it is not "my" minister: it is this minister who, just as Mr Jetten said, in the six months that he is Minister on this dossier, has provided for a settlement of damages without NAM and that it is finally coming back. Not optimal, but it's finally working out. It is this minister who said: I am going to stop the gas extraction and reduce it to zero; no SodM advice, 12 billion, and then look again, no, we can't do that to those people anymore. And it's this minister who says, "I don't want to rush people out of their homes unnecessarily, just give me a few weeks." That's a hell of a lot if you've been in uncertainty for years. I understand that very well, but he says: give me a few weeks, so I'm sure I can put that security at the centre and I don't need to rush people out of their homes unnecessarily. To be honest, I am glad that there are so many involved drivers who are there in the region and there are those here who are trying to do the right thing with each other for the Groningen people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u42	For all the good decisions 50PLUS has complimented the Minister, but it is for the reason that we are now back in the pit, and that is simply a unilateral decision by this Minister. You say space is needed. We heard from Mr. Alders yesterday that this is a way of constantly moving insight. So in a few months, we'll have other insights. That way we can wait. Waiting is no longer an option.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u43	I understand that very well. I know very well that it is not the first time that people in Groningen have heard: would you like to wait? But there is something very different now. That gas extraction stops. We're just gonna stop. We're just going to zero. We're not gonna win any more gas. We do that because we all fervently hope that that means more safety for Groningen. There are now four independent organisations with each other calculating what that means until 1 July. I understand that's a difficult task if you've waited so long. At the same time, what is this about? Then there's an independent advice saying what it looks like in that area. You have also heard me say this in my speech, and I have heard other colleagues say it here: if the opinion is not clear enough, if the opinion says that more research is needed, I don't care, I want to, even before we all close the door here and the summer recess begins, that it is settled for the Groningen people. Then I want to be clear. It can't be that we say we're gonna look at it for another year. I also asked the Minister how he sees this, what his plans are for it. In the meantime, until the beginning of July, I understand the Minister's saying, "Don't make me unnecessarily scare people out of their homes." Because that too we have heard a lot from Groningen: that reinforcement is so slow. People are in uncertainty about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u44	In fact, Mrs Yeşilgöz says the following in the defence of her minister. There were appointments. They're one-sidedly broken. There's a lot of fuss about that. In fact, Mrs Yeşilgöz says: the people who are causing a fuss are not right; the minister is right and the other people are not. I find that striking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u45	Mr. Van Raan doesn't have any questions today, just reflections, I see, but I'm going to respond to them anyway. I said clearly in my speech: you have safety on the one hand. That's why we're doing this right now. We need to be clear about that. At the moment, the Minister has also said that all homes where there is an acute risk are being tackled with priority. But that didn't remove that uncertainty in Groningen. I'm well aware of that. People have been walking around for years feeling like, "What am I supposed to do? I have plans for my home, for my surroundings. I had ideas about that." They're shutting it down now. That is why I explicitly drew attention to it in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u46	Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u47	I asked the Minister: is there room for that certainty?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u48	Mrs Yeşilgöz is defending her own minister by pointing out what he has done well. That's easy, of course. Yeah, okay, the gas extraction eventually goes to zero. Very good, of course. We all agree. But it is this minister who does not honour his commitments. He promised to strengthen houses, but it won't happen. He promised not to sit at the table with the NAM anymore, but he does anyway. There is no credibility at all. Does Mrs Yeşilgöz realize that, if she is defending this minister, she is equally unbelievable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u49	I have asked the Minister in my speech to say once again very clearly how he looks at that report that has come out of it, in which the NAM was suddenly mentioned. I said quite clearly: as far as the VVD is concerned, the NAM does not hear that at the table. I have said to the Minister, as a result of everything that is insecure and about which there are all these legitimate questions: explain to me how this can be done and this is the commitment of the VVD. Rounding up. I've also told the Groningers, so I can tell Mr. PVV...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u50	Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u51	Sorry. With words, it doesn't matter. I'm sure no one gets on the bus tonight and thinks: after those words, I'm gonna go to sleep. It's about action. That's what we're doing right now. That's what's happening now. I'd like to get the Minister's data: how are we gonna handle it, when is that gonna be done? Then we all know where we stand, Mr. Kops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u52	Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Despite the decision to bring gas extraction to zero, there are still a lot of concerns among people in Groningen. I can understand that: they have been fooled for years. And still, every day there's the risk of a quake. And still people don't feel safe or solve their old damage. The people in Groningen deserve a safe home: maintaining the individuality of Groningen and trusting in the future. After the departure of the National Coordinator Groningen, the Groningen drivers sent a letter of fire expressing great concern about the reinforcement operation. I have a lot of contact with the people in Groningen. I know the stories; I know who I'm here for. And I think that the government, this Chamber and this cabinet, should show them that that government is there for them too. That confidence has been severely damaged, especially in the last six years. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, therefore, there will be clarity for the residents as soon as possible. The advice of the Mining Council must be ready and not lead to new investigations. And if that is the case, it will be indigestible for my group if people remain in uncertainty for longer. The reinforcement operation must then be carried out in accordance with previous plans. So the question is not whether we are going to strengthen but how we are going to strengthen. Groningers must live as safe as people in the rest of the Netherlands, with a safety standard of 10, as is the case for all houses in the Netherlands. I'd like a response from the Minister. I would also like to hear from him how the talks with the region are now going. Safety is paramount, but there is also a question of sustainability and viability. People have also made plans for their homes and for their neighborhoods in this respect. What is the Minister going to do to accommodate residents in this? And is this issue also on the table in consultation with the region? Mr. Chairman. Many old damages are now dealt with with by the NAM. Yet things are not always going well, according to emails from residents. If the offer is rejected, the case may be referred to the arbitrator. Is sufficient time and attention given to this so that a proper and independent assessment of the damage can be made? So that generous compensation, which we always talk about, can also be realized? Mr. Chairman. The Minister said that the NAM has no place at the table, that it does not have it, does not get it, nor does it deserve it. The interview report shows that the NAM is involved in the reinforcement operation. And that raises questions for my group. Why is the NAM involved in determining risky properties? And when will the NAM be completely out of the process of reinforcement? The gas tap in Groningen is closing and that is a historic decision. This is the first cabinet to state that the Groningen gas supply is not exhausted either. We're finally gonna tackle the cause of the earthquakes and the mining damage. Justice and restoration of violated trust must be at the heart of the matter. We want to give Groningen a new perspective for the future and ensure that the province also becomes a frontrunner in the energy transition. Today. In the letter, the Minister states that gas extraction could be reduced even faster than expected: less exports abroad, the construction of the nitrogen plant and industrial large consumers will be removed from the Groningen gas. Of course, that all sounds very good. At the same time, I understand when people are thinking: these are daily rates. What gives the Minister the confidence that gas extraction is going down really quickly? How are the conversations with the major consumers going? And what possibilities does he see for more efficient use of the gas storage at Norg? Mr. Chairman. The gas extraction to zero: we really can't do that alone. Everywhere in the country gas-free is already being built and neighborhoods are being made gas-free. However, I am regularly approached by house buyers who buy a property that is connected to the gas network. They get the gas crane against will and thanks. As if you were buying a product for the past in 2018 instead of for the future. I received a lot of reactions through the action Gasvrij, not to mention from Groningen itself; from the city of Groningen, but also Hoogezand and Appingedam. I also call Boekelo, Delft, Assen, Ermelo, the Westland and a whole row of other municipalities. Everywhere in the country still to be built houses are connected to the gas grid. The Green Paper on Gas-free, which contains projects where this is still happening, I am happy to hand over to the Minister. Mr. Chairman. It's going to be quite a challenge to get existing construction of the Groningen gas. Let us not make this challenge even greater by making new construction dependent on gas. Among other things, the municipality of Utrecht has engaged developers for all new buildings in order to build natural gas-free, even in projects that are already at an advanced stage. Is the Minister prepared to encourage municipalities, project developers and network operators to make new construction projects gas-free? Mr. Chairman. I come to my final point. Yesterday, research by the University of Groningen showed that people feel less safe, but also powerless and angry. Where's the money for mental care? Platform Church and Earthquake wants to go through the province with a "proatbus." There's got to be some way to fix that, right? Ultimately, it's about restoring violated trust, making people feel like the government is there for them. That's the assignment today, and in four weeks' time, for the House of Representatives and for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u54	You just quoted the research of the University of Groningen, which shows that trust and sense of security are farther away than ever. You have been very critical of the previous minister in your previous period, and now we are only hearing a good news show. A very simple question: what do you think that this minister has unilaterally set aside agreements with the whole region?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u55	I see a minister who goes even further than the advice of State surveillance of the mines, which brings gas extraction to zero. I see the NAM is being taken out of the whole operation. I believe that the agreement that people in Groningen should be able to live as safe as they should be in the rest of the Netherlands. That's what I'm standing here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u56	I can't get an answer to my question. What's so hard about that? I ask you: what do you think of this Minister breaking one-sided agreements with the region? You know the Groningen as reasonable people. CDA mayor Rodenboog says this is inappropriate governance. What does that do to you, since you have always opposed this? A very simple question: what do you think of the unilateral withdrawal of agreements with a region that has been so often deceived by politics? Now I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u57	There's one clear appointment. It's fixed, wall-to-wall. That agreement is that the people in Groningen should be able to live as safely as in the rest of the Netherlands. If we then decide to bring the extraction of gas to zero, this may have consequences for the reinforcement exercise. We don't know that yet, we'll have it examined. Suppose it turns out that people can live in Groningen as safely as in the rest of the Netherlands, with a call for reinforcement that is less drastic, which ensures that houses do not have to be demolished. We all know how disruptive the reinforcements can be in communities. If that leads to less rigid intervention, isn't that something we can all be happy with?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u58	Since that quake last January, no less gas has been extracted. The KNMI says that the number of tremors does not decrease but increases. People in Groningen aren't safe in their own home. They've been waiting months, years, and now it's almost time for their house to be safe and then you say, "Wait a minute." That hurts Groninger incredibly, because they haven't been able to trust politics for years, and now you're just doing exactly the same thing: you're not answering my question. Once again, what do you think of a very simple question that was one-sidedly, unilaterally from the Minister, broken the agreements with the whole region?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u59	What I see is that a pass is made at the scene with the reinforcements. Less than six months ago, we held debates in this Chamber on the enormous impact of the reinforcement exercise. I see Mr Nijboer standing by the interrupting microphone. We have tabled motions on this matter together. Some villages threatened to be demolished 90%. If the gas extraction goes to zero and that leads to another reinforcement call, it's not that we're not gonna do it, but we're gonna do it differently, so I think we should look into it. I understand very well that it is incredibly miserable, and then I still softly express myself, for people to be in uncertainty right now. I'm sick of it. I'm really sick of it. At the same time, if we can prevent people from leaving their homes, I think we should take that step together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u60	I just wanted to make it very practical. I know that Mrs Dik-Faber is very involved in Groningen and that the Christian Union is involved in village communities. In the village of Overschild we know you know about it, because you have also been there, and made a whole plan for the future, on the basis of agreements made with the government. Half of the village received a letter saying "it's all going on" and the other half didn't. They're just neighbors of each other! How does Mrs. Dik-Faber explain that? I went there on Saturday. I couldn't explain it. How do you explain that that's reasonable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u61	I've been there recently. I've also spoken to the people in the area. I just don't think it's easy to explain. People on one side of the street and people on the other side of the state and a totally different task. I understand that this raises a lot of questions. I would like to know from the Minister how we are going to deal with this issue. 'Cause this is the disruption in communities that I'm running against. Again, at the same time, I would like to stress that we do not stop the call for reinforcement, which sometimes buzzes around. We'll continue with the reinforcements. The houses in the village that are now on hold are also strengthened. Only, the question isn't whether but how. That's just the dilemma we're facing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u62	The beauty of these villages is also true for Krewerd that they make a plan together: how are we going to do that? They made a deal about that. The beauty of this House of Representatives is that today we can decide to give them that assurance. The opposition does not have the majority; unfortunately this is always the case in this country. But you do have the key to make that happen. If you find "those people there, I can't really explain it," you can arrange it with your colleagues today. I think those people, who have been in uncertainty for so many years, deserve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u63	I understand Mr Nijboer's question very well. At the same time, I say: have another four weeks of patience. I know how difficult it is, but then we'll have the reports in our hands, then we'll strengthen, then we'll see how big the task is. My plea is what Mr Nijboer also says: use the knowledge and capacity of the people themselves. Do it not over the heads of people, but together with the regions, together with the residents. They must be at the centre. I have also asked a number of questions about the strengthening, about sustainability, about the neighbourhood approach, about the quality of life in villages. I really think we should step in with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u64	One last question, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u65	I know I only have six, but I'm still using it. The trouble is that in four weeks' time, on July 1st, people will have no clarity. Then there will be a new standard, but no one knows what that means for his or her home individually. Half the people now know whether it will be demolition and new construction or whether it will be heavily reinforced. The other half remains in uncertainty for months, perhaps years. I don't think that's explainable. We shouldn't allow that as politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u66	You may, of course, respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u67	Yes, I would like to respond, because there is a suggestion here that people will have no clarity at the beginning of July. I object to that. I'm going to do everything I can to make sure that clarity is there. I think I heard Mrs Yesilgöz say: we are not going to recess until there is clarity. I think that's very important. People have been waiting so long. They were supposed to be clear in April. They were asked to wait until early July. That's an incredibly big question for residents. I can't get it over my heart. I think I've literally taken the word "indigestible" in my mouth. There's got to be some clarity. I'm aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u68	Mrs Dik-Faber says that she is so happy that the gas tap is closing, but that does not mean that the earthquakes are over. And do you really think that on July 1st, when the norm is known, there will be clarity about the strengthening of the houses we are talking about? That's gonna take a lot longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u69	I can repeat what I just said. It is not a question of whether houses are strengthened, but of how houses are strengthened. I want that to be clear at the beginning of July, so people know what's going to happen to their homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u70	Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u71	Yeah, I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u72	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u73	Thank you, Mr President. It is a credit to Mrs Dik-Faber that she finds and admits that it is almost impossible to explain. Mr. Chairman. After many arguments from citizens, science, political parties that look beyond short-term interests, and finally earthquakes, the cabinet finally did what was necessary. It decided to cut off the gas extraction in Groningen. Finally, safety and viability over finances. Finally human and climate over money. Finally, security. But this decision to phase out must not, of course, lead to sham optimism. The SodM has always found that even after the reduction of extraction, the risk of major tremors remains. The KNMI indicates in advance that it cannot say how seismicity will develop. For the time being, the current reduction has little effect on the tremors. The National Coordinator Groningen, mayors in the region, duped in the earthquake area: they all support the arrangements for the reinforcement operation. It's a unit of security. These agreements are now unilaterally violated by the Minister. The new starting point seems to be cheap rather than security and security. Can the Minister deny and disprove this? Mr. Chairman. The new and unnecessary uncertainty that the Minister has now created and caused, we find indigestible, irresponsible and inauspicious. It is a pity to note that D66 is actually taking the Minister's side in this matter. The facts have not changed, the assignment has not changed, and the needs have not changed. But the Minister's behavior is, and not for the better. That's irrational of him. Mr. Chairman. There is another reason why we need to get rid of the Groningen gas so quickly: the climate. The way gas extraction is now being reduced is bad news for the future of our environment and future generations. We remain dependent on foreign gas for years to come. A nitrogen factory is being split into the stomach, with which we can import gas on a large scale. Costs: half a billion euros. It's a lock-in from the top shelf. The Minister and the fossil industry will demand that they remain in use in the coming years, knowing that the import of gas and the production of nitrogen are extremely damaging to the climate. TU Delft has calculated that all nitrogen plants together consume as much energy as 300,000 to 570,000 households. I'd like a reflection from the Minister on this. The same minister, the climate protector, then does not mention any climate compensation for these additional emissions. That is once again irrational behaviour on the part of this minister. I'd like a response. So while capital can be invested in truly sustainable alternatives, he doesn't. Scientists, for example, indicate that the production of biogas from seaweed rightly deserves a lot of attention. Reports suggest that this could replace some 6 billion cubic metres of natural gas each year. That's about a quarter of the current Groningen gas extraction. This can prevent the construction of a nitrogen factory and thus also the lock-in. With this, we can provide an alternative to the 170 largest consumers of Groningen gas at once. Mr. Chairman. However, as it now seems, only a few large users will opt for real sustainability. And, of course, most of these heavily fiscally subsidised fossil large-scale users choose to switch to foreign gas or gas from small fields. The Minister and fossil large-scale users are willingly and knowingly creating an extension of the gas addiction. The Minister chooses a two-track policy to feel our gas addiction. On the one hand, it focuses on the import of gas and on the further exploitation of its own gas fields. In April he writes that he has no less than 60 mining plans under consideration. Gas extraction at sea will even be fiscally stimulated. The gas sector has a considerable fiscal advantage because the Minister, I quote, is concerned about the economic perspective of the offshore sector. It would be nice if the minister were more concerned about the climate than about the gas boys' wallet. But it's not. For our future generations, and therefore for us, it is necessary to keep all the gas in the ground. But the minister's not gonna do that. It would also be nice if the minister would be more concerned about the neighbors of the small gas fields than about the wallet of the gas boys. But it's not. Fracking is not ruled out, neither is earthquakes. There's a lot of protest and unrest about the small gas fields. And rightly so. From Aalburg to Harlingen and from Brabant to the Green Heart, residents are opposed not to become second, third or fourth Groningen. For residents it is necessary to keep all the gas in the earth. But the minister's not gonna do it. Mr. Chairman. The Minister is therefore going to support industry by 0.5 billion to stay fossil, while its current policy for the built environment saves only 0.4 to 1.8 billion low-caloric gas by 2030, according to the PBL. And that while the built environment has a savings potential of 6 billion cubic metres and the minister also scraps out successful measures such as the netting scheme. That's irrational behavior. Consistent policy focuses on the here and now, later and elsewhere. Exactly as the broad concept of prosperity stands for. The minister's not gonna do it. How? Fossil stays in the ground. The government only invests sustainably and the government adapts the tax regime and the arrangements for transitions, but not for maintaining the destructive vested interests. And, uh, he's sticking to the deal. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. At the beginning we talked about the irrational behaviour of the minister towards society: agreements and his shortcomings. How insensitive can someone be? At the end of the day, we must note that the Minister also has irrational behaviour towards the climate and thus towards future generations. How irresponsible can you be? Anyway, maybe you can't expect anything better from a minister who compares fish to swimming vegetables. That's very unkind. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u74	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u75	Thank you, Mr President. I will not directly address the people sitting in the public gallery, but I do like the fact that so many people have taken the trouble to come here. That shows how committed they are. But I also fear with great fear that, as in previous debates, they will go home as disappointed as they have come here. I would, however, like to try to outline what is also the job of a Member of Parliament, which I believe should be done in order to regain that confidence. There are three main points to this. First of all, a deal is a deal, a well-known slogan for this minister. If you've made an appointment, especially if it's been very difficult and it's been years, you'll stick to it. Hans Alders was here yesterday in parliament to explain the arrangements he made on behalf of the governments in churches and village houses in Krewerd, Overschild and everywhere in the province; Ten Boer, Ten Post, Appingedam, he has been everywhere. He explained that, in his view, he said: "In the end, the judge must only judge that hard agreements have been made with the people and that the minister is forcing people not to live up to them." Mayor Rodenboog of Loppersum said: I think that is inappropriate governance. He's right about that. I find it indecent. I find it really indecent that you do that if you want to regain trust. So I also call on the Minister to come back to that. Not because that would be a favor to Groningen, because that's really their right. Shouldn't it be happy if that was the outcome of the debate? That's the least of it! People have two and a half years I was there last Saturday constructionists, technical inspections, new standards, a standard that was clicked on and another clicked on standard. It's been two and a half years. Now they had finally made a plan together with the village.That's not so easy either; in Overschild I think the atmosphere is quite good, but that's not so easy and then the government says on the other day that it has a new Gas decision, which is good in itself, and pulls the plug. What does that mean? What are you doing to the people who are already in uncertainty? That is the first point: keep those appointments. Mr. Chairman. The second thing that has to happen is that the NAM should not interfere with this anymore. The PvdA Group is not convinced that this will not happen again. The Minister said last Friday: the NAM was not sitting at the table, is not sitting at the table and is no longer at the table. That's just not true. There is a report of a conversation last Monday, where the highest director of the NAM was physically at the table with two more people and where it was also agreed that she would look at the most risky buildings and what needs to be strengthened. We didn't agree to that. That NAM is what made Groningen crazy, that made people murmuring with all those techs, lawyers and procedures and those things didn't work out. How is that even possible? And how is it that the Minister denies that, while he sent that interview report to us yesterday that it's just in there? They were sitting at the table. How can this minister give this NAM another great influence? How is that possible with this history? The third is the future of Groningen. It has not been so much about that today, but that is ultimately the most important thing. That's what we've been told about. Stop the chopping and this and that. But it goes much deeper than that. A future for Groningen means that all old damages are dealt with properly. We still have examples of all colleagues who will get them from rulings of arbitrators, from judges, who will not be followed. In some cases, it's been over a year. This week it was Hiltje Zwarberg again: again to the judge, while she had already been right. That undermines all the trust. It can't be! The Minister has to do something about that. Villages, also in Groningen, are very busy with their own future. How do we preserve the soul of our country: the monuments, the mills, our Groninger land? How do you keep that? What is needed for this, especially now that we need to strengthen it? Because the coalition parties also indicated that this will have to continue to happen. How do you do that together? You can't just look at individual buildings, send inspectors who look very closely at them and say, "there's a rag and a scrap," and say, "This is the future for our area." That's not an answer. This must be done with an area-based approach. That's what you have to do with those people. The beautiful thing about Groningen is why this is so bad; that's why I think people are so angry; that's why I'm so angry too.It's that this just got started in Krewerd, in Overschild, in Appingedam; in Ten Post it's even more difficult. That's what people are doing right now. It's necessary, and it's miserable enough that it has to. And that, what these communities do together and build together, together with the mayor and aldermen, is a huge job, also because of the human impact. Because people, also older people, have to move out of their homes. Sometimes houses are demolished where they lived themselves. All of that has to happen. But that's what they were just doing, and it's getting torn down by the legs. That's why it's so bad. That is why it is vile to say: wait four weeks and then there will be clarity. That's not the case, because then you only have a new standard, and you still don't know anything about the future of your village. Nothing at all! You only have a new standard, when people have been working on it so much. That is why I call on the Minister to do three things: away with the NAM...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u76	I understand Mr Nijboer's anger. I also know him as an involved Groninger, who also stands up here in the Chamber for Groningen. But it would, I think, also be a credit to Mr Nijboer if he reflected in his contribution on what has happened in recent years, and not just over the last six months, which has brought us to this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u77	I have no problem dealing with the role of the PvdA and the role of the previous government in recent years. I've done that a lot here. I don't think they've done enough for Groningen, that Groningers have been abandoned. I think more should have happened, that the gas extraction should have gone further down, that people should have been helped better, that the NAM should have gotten out sooner. I've made myself strong for that, too. The PvdA, by the way with other parties, also bears responsibility for this. And I'll take it to the full. That's what I've always done. I fully acknowledge them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u78	I am very pleased with that answer, because that is not the impression I have received from Mr Nijboer's performances over the last few weeks. I have here a whole package of motions that have all been tabled by this Chamber at the time of the VVD and Labour Party Cabinet. It's all motions to stop the gas extraction, take out the NAM, and you name it all. These are all motions that Mr Nijboer and his PvdA Group have had to vote against for the past five years. Once again, I am very pleased that Mr Nijboer is now also saying: yes, we share responsibility for this. That is why I would like to ask him: let us now as a Chamber, no matter how difficult it is, not too much you-baked together, but look at what the Minister has already done, namely another damage protocol. Let's stop the gas extraction and now work together to get this reinforcement operation going.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u79	For a year my main argument has been here in the Chamber: let's stand as one woman, as one man behind Groningen. But I'm not naive. I've heard the introduction of you, too. What is needed in the region now? "A deal is a deal" is the least of it. People don't go home happy when we do. But even that is not being complied with. That will not be the outcome of this debate. I have to put my finger on that, because that should have happened. And we can do it. I would very much like the Minister to say: I have heard the Chamber, I have heard the regional directors, we have to move forward together, I am going to take this first step and then I am going to do all these other things. I am referring here to the matters that I have just brought in. But we have to figure it out. If the majority doesn't, we can't do it together. I don't have to file the motion either. I'd like to give that to everyone. If that were the case, it would be a step forward. But that must be the outcome. And that's what I'm afraid of, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u80	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u81	Mr. Chairman. In the run-up to an important debate like today's, you, as a Member of Parliament, have a lot of contact with residents of Groningen about the gas extraction, the damage recovery and the reinforcement exercise. A lot of things have already been said about repairing the damage, but there is still a lot to do. But we'll talk about that at another time. For example, at our party congress in Den Bosch last Saturday, agricultural entrepreneur Ate Kuipers spoke about his concerns about the consequences of gas extraction for his beloved province, his employees and his family. I spoke to an entrepreneur who still gave very decent and neat attention to his concerns and closed with: we are also the Netherlands. Another resident said, "I'm just getting into and out of the hospital a little too often." Mr. Chairman. I would like to quote a piece of a letter from Overschild. "Our houses are broken, worthless and unsellable. Our lives have been on hold for two years, and that does something to us as a community. Many relationships that can't handle the pressure anymore. Everyday life with a feeling of insecurity, uncertainty, unrest and impotence slowly but surely sits in your capillaries, makes a person angry and sad and above all exhausted." The call in that letter is: "The reinforcements cannot and must not stop." They're all people who get to me all by themselves with their stories. Our people's representatives also have it up to here. That's how Mayor Rodenboog said that he's afraid of being delayed. With all these inhabitants on my retina, I would ask the Minister for a very clear explanation of the choice he has made with regard to the reduction of gas extraction and the subsequent rejection of the call for reinforcement. We would like to outline a new perspective for Groningen and work together with the region on this. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. I understand very well that a year-long sum of problems caused by gas extraction can never be made up for in six months. That not only frustrates the Groningen, I can assure you. There is still a great deal to be done. I'm aware of that. The houses in Groningen must be as safe as those in the rest of the Netherlands. So that standard that Mr Dik-Faber mentioned is also our norm. Does the Minister agree with us on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u82	Your last question, Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u83	Mrs. Mulder, you quoted a very intense letter from Overschild, the village where people really don't know what they're up to. That hurts a lot. I see it affects you, too. Can you imagine that if we walk out of this Chamber later, the outcome of the debate will not be: a deal is a deal, so we will continue as we have agreed with the whole region? Can you imagine the outcome of this debate where that is not the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u84	Almost at the end of my speech I ask the Minister: "What happens to the inhabitants of Overschild? Is the Minister prepared to find a solution?" That is what I want to hear from the Minister here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u85	Mrs Mulder is making a very emotional speech. She's showing how involved she is. I also believe that she is. If Mrs Mulder had known what the Minister was going to do, namely to break the agreement unilaterally, would she have advised the Minister positively?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u86	I understand this question. We have argued in Parliament that this gas extraction should at least go back to 12 billion cubic metres. We also asked for scenarios where it goes to zero. So that could have an impact on the call for reinforcement, because we have heard enough here too that not everyone is waiting for his house to be demolished. Suppose this would provide the opportunity to prevent it. Then I want those people to have the choice. That is why I call on the Minister today to look at this very carefully. I hope that the people in that group of 1 467 will also be given the choice, but at least we want it to be clear today. That's what I'm going to ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u87	Thanks for the answer. Would it not have been possible for Mrs Mulder's direction of solution and the clarity she wants to have without the unilateral termination of those agreements? In other words, couldn't we have done that anyway? That is my question to Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u88	Then my question to the Minister is how he did it in consultation with the region. What did he or didn't bring forward? 'Cause I imagine you want to come out together. I now expect the Minister to come out with the region. The Minister and we in The Hague cannot do this alone. The region cannot do this alone. Our locals can't do this alone. Our provincial people can't do this alone. This is what we need each other to do. Otherwise, it's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u89	I have one final question or comment. So you are not actually ruling out the possibility that the region and the Commissioner, and so on, might have been slightly wrong and that the Minister was actually right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u90	What I'm not ruling out is that this minister has always had the intention not to rush people out of their homes unnecessarily. I've always heard from him that he doesn't want to rush people out of their homes unnecessarily. Now we have the image that this minister would not want to continue with the reinforcement task. In the media, that image also emerges, but at least that is not my image. So anyway, we're gonna continue with that reinforcement call. Then the question is: to what extent do you then do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u91	The last question, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u92	Then I note that the answer to my question was indeed that Mrs Mulder did not rule out the Minister being right and the rest was not, in fact. The question of whether this unilateral withdrawal of agreements was necessary in order to obtain the outcome that Mrs Mulder wants and which we all really want has actually been answered in the affirmative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u93	What is very important to me is that today we should at least clarify to the people of Groningen what direction it is heading. I can imagine that the Minister would like to wait and see those opinions, so as to prevent people from being forced out of their homes unnecessarily. I would like to avoid that, but I do want people to have the choice in the end to do the reinforcement in such a way that they can actually live safely in their homes. Because that is what the coalition agreement says, and I am sticking to it by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u94	The point is that the people in those 1,588 homes had that clarity. That was settled and it was coming. That clarity is off the table. I admire your involvement. You're always on board. We have often talked about the energy and climate transition. But do you not think at least that the Minister himself should have had this conversation with those people and should have explained why he made such a big decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u95	We're far from done with Groningen. However, I think it is a good suggestion that, if there are further far-reaching decisions to be taken, this should be done in the future in the manner indicated by Mr Van der Lee. Because we have to learn from this every day. That is also what Groningen makes very clear to us. I would like to point out that we all find it very painful as it has been up to now, but that this has also taken place for a number of years. It's not from today to tomorrow. Following the resignation of the National Coordinator Groningen, the call for reinforcement was added to this debate. Originally, this would only be about the Minister's decision to reduce gas extraction to zero. Last night a letter came in about the state of play regarding the phasing-out. The Minister has been hard at work and announced in his letter that gas extraction can return to zero faster than we initially thought. I appreciate that. The Minister could have also decided to bring gas extraction back to 12 billion cubic metres, but he did not. He didn't choose that, and neither did this coalition. In this way we also agree with what the Gas Council and the Groninger Soil Movement have said, namely to bring the extraction back to zero. I remember the torch parade well. There is also broad support for this in the Lower House. In the media it may seem as if gas extraction is already at zero, but we know that unfortunately it is not yet that far. When I read last night's letter on the acceleration of phasing-out, I thought: how would I read this letter if I was a citizen of Groningen and did not know that this was already in the planning for this debate on gas dismantling? Maybe I'd be very cynical about that. The Minister is implementing the government agreement and I see the Minister's good intentions. Like the Minister, I don't want to unnecessarily scare people out of their homes. We shouldn't underestimate moving temporarily to a swap house. Sloop is certainly not the only solution and I do not think that is the wish of Groningen either. By law, it will be enforced that no more gas should be extracted than is strictly necessary. That is an important change, which the State surveillance of the Mines has advised us. We have taken that advice to heart, as have other advice from the State surveillance of the Mines of recent years. We will continue to do so, even with the opinion of 1 July. Much remains to be done before gas extraction is phased out. The nitrogen plant is still to be built. For that, permits are required. How can the Minister speed up and facilitate that process? It is also nice that the business community is finally picking up the glove and that our German neighbours are so close to us. We find it painful that the National Coordinator Groningen has left out of discontent. As a result, uncertainty is increasing. The coalition agreement states that the reinforcement will be determined independently of the NAM in addition to the damage settlement. Will this be dealt with in a modification of the mining plant that is now in the Chamber? When did the NAM finally get out? The reinforcement operation is huge. I also asked questions about this yesterday to the National Coordinator Groningen, because I have a lot of concerns about that. I'm asking the Minister these questions now. Only a few hundred homes have been strengthened in recent years. I am getting reports that the capacity that construction companies would have released for reinforcement is no longer available. How is this possible? Until the legislative amendment, there does not seem to be any incentive for the NAM to participate in the reinforcement. My image is they slowed everything down. I ask the Minister: to what extent is that correct? Can he also explain the escalation meeting on 28 May? Mr. Chairman. The Minister indicated that he had asked a number of independent parties to give an opinion on the reinforcement exercise. This opinion was adopted on 1 July. Is this the time for the Minister to give the people of Groningen a clear opinion on strengthening their homes? Can the Minister state here that the call for reinforcement is being carried through and that the inhabitants themselves will be told something about it? To what extent are the reinforcement challenge and sustainability taken hand in hand? What happens to the inhabitants of Overschild? Is the Minister prepared to find a solution? Mr. Chairman. We expect the Minister today to clarify the call for reinforcements. We encourage him to do everything possible to accelerate the phasing-out of gas extraction even further where possible. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u96	Thank you. Last question, Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u97	I would like to have one more clarification from Mrs Mulder. This is the result of the opinion of the Council of State. That's an authoritative institution. The Vice-President is a member of your party, and many CDAs have been active there for many years. And they say, "Give priority to security over security of supply." Is that also the position of the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u98	That has been the position of the CDA for years, and it remains so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u99	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u100	Mr. Chairman. When you're 10, you run the risk of having some doubles in your story. I have already deleted a great deal, but I hope you will allow me to put forward the position of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u101	You have six minutes for that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u102	As soon as this minister managed to gain the confidence of the Groningers, he also lost it as soon as possible. That's a hell of a damper. We are talking about laws and rules in general here, but the most important thing is that we realize what a huge impact this has on the Groningers, who are uncertain about their home. Home is your base, and must be your base. The resignation letter from the National Coordinator Groningen, Mr Alders, struck like a bomb. He feels compelled to violate promises made about the strengthening of homes and thus his integrity is at stake. They're talking to dedain about the NCG. Mr Alders experienced less and less confidence from the Minister. He writes, "How can I restore trust if I don't keep my appointments?" Of course, the Minister writes nice things about Mr Alders, but I would like to hear some more from him about what he thinks about this situation. Furthermore, Mr Alders writes: "How should I be the personification of the unity of municipalities, province and empire, while, visible to everyone, the division prevails and the private party NAM again occupies a prominent place?" That concerns 50PLUS very much. Then, in a response, the Minister said that the earthquake problem has entered a new phase with new relations. Can the Minister explain what he means by these "new relations"? Buitenhof's broadcast didn't exactly contribute to clarity. The Minister said, on the one hand, that the key word for the Groningen is "security." On the other hand, there was the quote from the interview report of a consultation between the Ministry, the National Coordinator Groningen and the NAM of 28 May. I have not yet heard the phrase quoted today, so I do so: "The NAM makes an inventory and ranking of the most risky buildings, based on its risk picture that is also one of the foundations of the current reinforcement programme." As far as we are concerned, this is separate from the hazard and risk assessment. The Minister's reaction in the programme was that the NAM has no role in the reinforcement but only in the payment. He wants to regulate that legally, but how does that phrase get into the interview report? Then how did the NAM get to the table with that so-called escalation call? This contradicts each other, and so please explain again from the Minister. The Minister wants to wait for the advice of the Mines Council before taking steps in the reinforcement, because the phasing out of gas extraction affects the earthquake risk. The latter is true, of course, but the damage that already exists is already there. You can't put them on hold and you can't draw out or plan earthquakes. However, as stated in the letter of 29 March, it is clear that unsafe houses must be rapidly strengthened. So a pass at the place is not an option. Of course, 50PLUS welcomes the Minister's decision to close the gas tap quickly: within a few years back towards 12 billion cubic metres and eventually even towards zero in 2030. The NAM and the State are negotiating the financial liability of the early termination of the gas extraction, reports the Volkskrant. In the new law, which we will soon and undoubtedly deal with extensively, it is ultimately the Minister who finally determines the operational strategy. And the Council of State also wonders whether the introduction of this obligation of extraction still leaves the responsibility of future damage to the holder of the licence, the NAM. What is the NAM's position on this liability, for example for future damage? Is this uncertainty about liability perhaps the reason for the pause button? Mrs Beckerman asked whether the Minister was dancing to the tune of the NAM. We did not really dare to ask that question, because I also wonder if we can get a fair answer to that question. In any event, 50PLUS wants a guarantee from the Minister that the NAM retains its liability. In Buitenhof they also discussed the costs of the whole transition. 50PLUS cannot often say that a fair, proportionate distribution of costs is vital for the acceptance of the project and thus for the success of the feasibility according to the planning and thus for the safety of Groningen. It is therefore a good idea to present the whole of the costs. What is important here is that, wherever possible, subsidies on fossil fuels should be phased out, because that is about billions. And that's the money we need for the transition. The Minister is already doing a lot of work on industrial conversion, but what about the conversion of households, ordinary households? There is also a lot of uncertainty there. Is there any insight into what needs to be done and does the Minister have any idea when we can expect a note on this? I'm running out of time, Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say that regardless of the pace of stopping gas extraction, the pace of rebuilding and strengthening must be given priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u103	Thank you, Mrs Sazias. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 5.15 p.m. and then the Minister will answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u104	We will continue the debate on the decision on gas extraction in Groningen and I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u105	Mr. Chairman. Officially, this debate is, of course, about the phasing out of gas extraction, but'safety' is the magic word, and that starts with the phasing out of gas extraction. So I'll start with that. Then I'll come by the bill briefly, no more than necessary, and then we'll have to get to the backup soon. That's what the biggest concern is. Then I come to the questions that have been asked about the report and then some specific questions have been asked about the NCG. I suggest that after that I take a look at what I have missed and what I can answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u106	Yes. And before you continue: we use the same number of interruptions as in the first term. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u107	Okay. This debate is about security, and that security has a whole and all-important history. In recent years, all parties have tried very hard to make Groningen safer. How did they do that? This has happened in recent years against the backdrop of continued extraction. First over 40 billion cube, then it turned 27, then it turned 24. The coalition agreement also provides for continued mining of 21.6 billion cubic metres. One of the coalition spokesmen praised in my direction that I was implementing the coalition agreement, but of course that is not true. The winnings continued. We also had to base our reinforcement operation on that and that was a massive reinforcement operation. We calculated that it was necessary to strengthen 22,000 homes and we said a few years ago that we would do so within four years, 5,000 homes a year. To be honest, I am partly responsible for this. The Empire, the province and the municipality have done so together. They have all those numbers, those expectations, written down together. Me too. We just need to establish that we've lost our incredibly ugly touch on the complexity. We have shown that we have not fulfilled that strategy of continuing to win and, at the same time, massively strengthening. I'm standing here as a system operator for security in the gas extraction area. We haven't done it a bit, we haven't done it a bit. Mrs. Mulder asks how many houses they are. We had an ambition of 22,000. We're an end on edge, so far we've done something like "I'm doing it as big as a modo" and from the top of my head we've done 9,000 inspections and we've finished 600 homes. That's where we stand. At least those 600 homes didn't put me in my cold clothes. I've been in the area and I've heard there many times: Mr. Wiebes, stop the gas extraction. But more often than not, make sure my house isn't demolished. You have people across from you who don't know you, and who burst into crying, talking about their house that has to be flat. I then called that combination of continuing to win, without providing security, "state failure." That's where all the governments sit, including this government. I have concluded that this can no longer be done. Someone asked me in the debate if I was as obstinate as Camp. Well, at this point, I like being obstinate. This can't be! This is not reasonable and we have had to conclude, with the whole cabinet behind it: the road is to zero. That was what the Groningers wanted, but we have to recognise it and it was actually worse than I feared that this might give a pleasant view for the long term, but in the short term it only increases the uncertainty of Groningers. 'Cause hey, we did something because we couldn't handle that masmal operation. We have all agreed procedures on this massive operation, but apparently we are going to do something else, but then what? That's not a good time. I didn't look back very much, but this, the battle of the Groningen for clarity, I got. That was often clear about very nasty things, by the way. Clarity about your house being demolished is also clear. That's not a pleasant clarity. The struggle for clarity has been a long one and there the Empire, but also the NAM did not stand on the side of the Groningen. The clarity that has been fiercely fought is therefore worth a lot, and we have only greater uncertainty there in the short term. I'll come back to that later. I've been asked, have we ever lost our ally in Groningen? To that I say: no, certainly not. But with such a public gallery you have the appearance against you, so my answer you will have to test in a few months. I started to bet on the gas extraction to zero. I do have the stubbornness in getting that decision through, but I also have in pursuing it. The team is pretty fanatical right now. We're not betting on one measure. We are not saying that security of supply should be considered a fact at this level. We're betting on everything at the same time. All at once, so in all kinds of ways in the country and abroad and on all kinds of measures. In all honesty: the zero is leading, the budget is not leading. I invite everyone to follow that. I'll send you regular reports. Check me to see if I'm gonna make it happen. I'm on it. I'm passionate about this. So far, the completion of the basic path is on track. That's good, because there was quite a bit in that basic path. I must, for example, express my gratitude from this side to many entrepreneurs who see this with really long teeth. They have not chosen this, but they understand that this has to be done now, because this is not a Gronings thing, but a national interest. All those entrepreneurs who do that with long teeth, but understand it, I thank you from this place. There wasn't just a basic path. There were also additional measures, and I have appointed them, but also made them known. It's always a little vulnerable when you say you think there's more to it. Then you can be taken care of, but I do now. How's that going? I think the possibilities of going down again have become more real. What we have inside when we realize the basic path is, of course, the 4 billion cube from October 2022. We're on schedule with that. But in the picture that has been realized, not yet sure and not yet booked by GTS, that's all true, but there I'm chasing the 12 billion cube from October 2020. This would therefore mean that we could achieve the SodM opinion even earlier than in the previous letters. I still have to show you. I have yet to realize this, I have to keep an eye on the progress reports, I will keep you informed, but this is a new benchmark for this ambition. It has also become more real what I at first called my "secret ambition." It's been a long time since it's been a secret. We were supposed to be on 4 in October 2020, but I saw all kinds of possibilities to get under 4. Well, the hunt is open. The 4 is about an average gas year. Then what are those breakthroughs that I've been able to make more real on top of that basic path? First of all, that is Germany's great help. Our eastern neighbours, up to and including the minister and the German Ministry, but also the industrial parties and the energy suppliers are helping us enormously. There's just 2.5 billion cubs ahead of us. It happens in all kinds of ways. There's a very loyal co-operation. People understand this. It is seen that a neighbouring country is having an equally difficult time with this and is doing all of the things that we would not have asked them to do in the past. The purchase of nitrogen is mentioned in the letter and it becomes more real. We still have Norg's bet. Those are all things that seem to be getting more and more real. Then, of course, you can ask: why couldn't that be done in the old days? We have so far, and I believe that every government has been quite open to this, considered security of supply at a certain level. Then you're gonna see how much less you can drill for gas. I turned that around in all honesty. I don't think we have that luxury anymore. I think, and then I'm back as a system operator for safety, that I can't go on winning gas if we can't guarantee safety. And the latter has unfortunately shown recent history. It can now because it has to be, is the honest answer. With regard to industry, one of the Members had asked a question, but I do not know who I am thinking of. I'll take a look at that in a minute. Here I come to the questions of the individual spokesmen. To be able to do all this, something other than physical is needed, namely the legal ability to go to the minimum. Because in the past we called a number, and that will automatically be a safe number, and we were going to win it. If it was hot, we'd have some left over. I can't do that anymore. We need to change the procedure, including in the law. This requires both an amendment to the Gas Act and the Mining Act. With this the Groningerveld is the final piece of all the above. So all the questioners must disappear and be eliminated as much as possible, and the extraction from Groningen will only be followed after all the suppliers have been taken in. That's all in the bill, "no more than necessary." I remember a question from Mrs Sazias about liability, which is also covered. That's actually going in stages. At all times the NAM will pay the damage and the reinforcement to infinity for as long as necessary. But you know that; some of you still asked about it, but then this is an answer to that question. The question is, how do you link that to the concept of liability? Liability is defined in the Civil Code and then it says that you cannot be held liable if you cannot do anything about it yourself. If the cabinet takes over the gas crane, you can say there's nothing you can do about it. That "never more than necessary" legislative proposal eliminates that provision in the Civil Code in this case. So that means that the NAM can't do anything about it, but has to pay anyway. In the future, we will have to deal with this differently, because this is a legal knot that does not look proper. This means that we must ensure that the obligation to pay is decoupled from liability. So we need to make sure that the bill continues to go to the NAM in a legally justifiable way. But the most important undertone in Mrs Sazias' question was: will they continue to pay? Yes. Then I'll come back to fortify. That's where we're at a very difficult point. Mr President, I believe that someone...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u108	Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u109	I think it was me who asked a question about industry. I welcome the Minister's optimism about moving even faster to zero, but we in the Chamber cannot judge what hard commitments industry has made. We're just reading about conversations. Can't you give more substance to that? I combine that with the other remark I made. I hear from those involved in the negotiations around the climate tables that there is no movement on the industrial table. That worries me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u110	Those are two very different points. To give the Chamber insight but also to let the Cabinet know what it is doing, we have GTS. He's taking into account what it believes to be credible. So it keeps track of that and that's why we have a basic path. As soon as it becomes clear that we can no longer count on that basic path, it must be set off. As soon as it's clear that something else is working, it goes by the basic path. It's up to them to tell them what they think is credible. I don't do that myself. That's not good either, because then I can keep very nice stories and we shouldn't have that. There's a methodology for that. People are working on "what is a realistic estimate?" And that's information that goes all the way to the Chamber. The progress of the industrial table is quite different. Actually, it's unrelated to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u111	Then I'd limit the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u112	Yes. It's part of a climate debate somewhere. Let me put it this way: I may not be surprised at the question, but it is not yet July.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u113	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u114	I'm constantly concerned about progress. But that is a completely different subject. I began by saying that I do not have to say again that we are at a difficult point here, particularly with regard to the reinforcement. There has been a lot of success with what I call "my partners from the region," but genuinely. We took care of the damage. We've set up a whole window. It's not just about gas extraction, we're also putting the finishing touches to a future fund, with a whole vision underneath it. We are in the process of taking out the NAM in all kinds of areas; I will come back to that in a moment. But here's an ugly bone in the throat, which has to do with the fact that there's a moment between earlier and later when you don't know. I'd like to talk to you about that. Let me get this straight. Everyone knows it and no one has ever said anything else, but it still deserves clarification. Strengthening remains necessary, safety standards are untouched. Yes, in Groningen we have the same security. Anyone can feel on their clogs the need for backup. Also in the cabinet letter of 29 March is only a question of what this means for the reinforcement operation. It doesn't say it's not necessary anymore. We are about to come up with a report that has come out in the open which has led a lot of Groningers to think 'o, they think that strengthening is no longer necessary'. No, that's not true. No one who thinks so. Anything that's necessary for safety. It is not the case that the end of mining will put an end to the necessary reinforcement. It doesn't necessarily end tremors. I also know that Jan, Piet and Klaas all say different things about it, but we need to get one advice from the best experts in the Netherlands. They know it all better than I do, and maybe I'm so impolite to think they all know it better than you do. They have to tell you, they're our experts. This should never limit resources, not height and not time. Another part of how far it is now is that the ongoing operation in which the reinforcement recommendations had already been issued continues. That's a lot, because there's... The last estimate I got was about 2,000. That's a lot. For the past three, three and a half years, we've done 600. So 2,000 is a whole bucket of work. I sincerely hope that we can speed it up, but no one denies that this is a huge piece of work. Then the problem is, of course, the displeasure is with "what do we do in the batches afterwards?" I'm sure there's one thing I'd like to take away. I say this in the direction of someone I usually really enjoy listening to, namely Mr Van Raan. I'm gonna take a look at him right now. Mr. Van Raan, "cheap instead of safe"? No other spokesperson has said it. I don't think that's a productive suggestion. My note says something else, but because I appreciate Mr Van Raan's contributions, although they are not always the same as my opinion, and think they are sincere, I say: let us not do this. We leave 50 billion of gas in the ground. There will be infinite lines and buffers to control this. No, this really isn't about money. Let's not tell anyone either, we can't. Then why put something on hold? Mr Van der Lee said: there can be a six-monthly review, what are you being difficult about? This was really the choice between two evils for me. On the one hand, you leave people longer in uncertainty when you wait for a moment, while that acquired security was so valuable to them. The average Dutchman would be annoyed if he thinks he's getting something in April and he gets it in July, but with people who have been through that a lot and who remember those 22,000 homes in four years, that's another issue. On the other hand, if you carry on now, you're risking wrecking a lot of houses for nothing. But that's the simple version. There was one spokesperson who looked me in the eye when I asked: what is the real need to cut somewhere, to break into the procedure we had already agreed on? That was Mr Van der Lee. He said, "Why? Why can't you go on?" Firstly, it is not obvious that it will be safer if you continue to strengthen, release batches. It sounds like it, but that's not obvious. I've been warned by too many people who really know something about it that maybe that's not the case. You then automatically choose to buy at a low pace and to strengthen very firmly per house and that may not be the optimum. Maybe it's true that you need to speed up, while you still do what you need to do per house. That's a big question, and if you're system responsible for security, you have to ask yourself that question. There's a second reason, and he's pulling it through even more. 'Cause what's the program like? All that was already based on continuous gas extraction, so that all makes sense. There's nothing illogical about that program. That program is based on the fact that the moment you inspect it, you click on the gas extraction level, to say the latest state of the art technique. The strengthening of these houses is not a development. If gas extraction remains at 21,6 it is not such a problem at all, but it may become a problem now. Only 600 houses have been completed. There are 2,000 unchanged in the pipeline. They will therefore inevitably run the risk of being overly strengthened. That's not a security risk, but that's incriminating for a lot of people. But there might still be rough 6,000 to 7,000 houses clinging to something. So if you say you're not allowed to cut anything, you're not necessarily at 1,500, but you might be tied to 9,000 houses in total. Then you're to do something that was still a procedural arrangement breaking down a county. I need to get here... I see that spokesmen want to respond, but let me finish this. As a system operator for safety, I must always be able to make it clear that I am making the most sensible decisions about safety. I don't have the luxury of choosing decisions that would make me or the cabinet popular. This is a serious point. It's inevitable to cut somewhere. That's inevitable. This is not an irresponsible form of government; we cannot escape it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u115	Let me see if the Minister has completed this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u116	Yeah, I... Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u117	I think the pain is in him that no one denies that it is very sensible to cut, because we are moving towards a new reality and there is a new advice on what that means for the seismic consequences. The pain is in him where the cut was made, namely precisely in a batch that was almost finished, at least the advice could leave the door. I don't understand. You use a lot of words. It is clearer to me, but you should have told the people who are involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u118	I'll get right on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u119	I don't understand why the cut was made there. It could have been placed one batch further. Then we would not have had the fuss, then there would have been support and then there would have been plenty of support to deal with it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u120	I don't think so. The desires for the batch afterwards were, of course, also there. That batch also had 1,500 as many houses. There may also have been some progress in strengthening opinions at an advanced stage. I was up against the next thing. After we've done 600 in three years, we have roughly 2,000 in the pipeline. There would be 1,500 I mean, you can't treat the batch quite differently after that or 3,000 have been added. I can't justify this being good for safety. What we need isn't wait a year. I will also be coming to Mr Nijboer's year later, because he looks at that just as grumpy as I do. We're definitely gonna find each other there in terms of intentions. Yeah, it was hard for me, but I still have it easy, because it might have been even more difficult for those people. It was three months. Three months extra waiting is very hard for someone who has already "a bit" waited, but it doesn't fall as far as I'm concerned to just continue with something that doesn't make it safer, but so you're going to demolish a lot of houses for nothing. I think that's something else. That's why. That's not a nice message for the people it comes to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u121	One supplementary question on that. I specifically asked Mr Alders yesterday about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u122	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u123	Mr Alders says about this group of houses, which are 1,588 houses, that it is not an arbitrary group, but that these are the weakest homes. I simply cannot imagine with the best will of the world, given also the rate of decline in gas extraction, that the advice we get in July will greatly diminish the enormous need to strengthen or perhaps to demolish and replace these houses. That is why I would like to hear an appreciation from the Minister of what the indications are for that batch that it had to be there. 'Cause I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u124	Two points. Are they the most dangerous and we get another... Let me begin with the last point where I look straight at Mr Van der Lee. Maybe in a month we'll have the message that nothing's gonna change that. Then, of course, we must continue; period. Then we have certainly allowed people to wait longer for their clarity, but it is not evident that the house will be ready later. You could almost say they're in the back of the line. So then we have certainty and we know we're doing the right thing. That's what we're gonna do; period. Is it obvious that these are the most dangerous houses? There are several ways to see that. One of the ways is by Mr Alders, who says: that is how we have selected them. I haven't seen any calculations or modeling that shows. I have, of course, talked to Mr Alders about this. It is a view he is fully convinced of. He knows his files, I'll tell you, so that could be true. But there are also other signs that this is not true. I just want to know this. If we think we are on the right track with this, we will continue along that road. However, I do have some serious concerns about this. I am very concerned about the progress of the reinforcement operation. Columbus' egg for acceleration hasn't been handed to me yet. I'm very worried about it, but what needs to be done is done. And we'll do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u125	Those houses are unsafe now. It's been established. Gas extraction isn't even going to zero this year or next year either. But I think the Minister is making a mistake of thinking, which I'd like to tell him. Now, if people think they need to strengthen the house completely and it becomes clear on 1 July that it's really not necessary, isn't it true that everyone is going to tear down their own house like crazy? People don't do that for fun, do they? They do that for safety. It's their own house. They're in charge of it, too. So it's a really weird idea not to live up to the agreements you made to make a safe house right now? People aren't crazy. They don't all do it for fun. And you take away that opportunity to do so, to make that security that was promised to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u126	That last one is pertinently not... Look, in what way we are going to strengthen, we need to hear from people who know it. That it should be safe, that the ten minus five in Groningen is fully valid, that is a fact. That's what we stand for. Mr Nijboer and I do not disagree. It's not about safety standards. It's about the way to get there. Apparently, we both think it could be that nothing changes there. It seems to me that we both think that I have heard him say that it could also be different. We both think people aren't waiting to break down their homes for nothing. But that's why I'm committed to giving people something that the experts have been looking at. I've chosen you to make other choices, but I find those other choices dangerous to ask these people to wait for that advice and then do whatever it takes. 'Cause that promise goes without saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u127	The Minister himself said: giving certainty to Groningers is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u128	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u129	The point I raised in the debate and in my speech is that on 1 July, for all those for whom there are now opinions, a new period of certainty will start to come when that standard begins to slide. Because there will have to be engineers and builders again and sizes to be included. And that's the problem. And they've often been going on for one and a half, two or sometimes two and a half years. Finally, they got a little bit of certainty. And that's the problem now. And those people aren't, really, gonna break down their house if they don't have to. There really isn't a human being, there isn't a sensible person, there isn't a Groninger who does that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u130	But what's the point of giving people something that doesn't take the changes into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u131	Because then they're about it themselves and they're no longer dependent on the government and a decision and I know what has to be done. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u132	But security is an objective fact, and then people must have the freedom of choice in order to shape themselves with that image, and with the call for reinforcement that exists. But it's not like we have to confront people with advice that isn't up to date and then say three months later: oh, by the way, that letter you got isn't really right anymore. On the other hand, the very serious point and, I think, Mr Nijboer's most serious point, namely the fear that it will last another year, I shall come back. Here's his look just as gloomy as mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u133	Mr. Nijboer often looks like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u134	Well, when he was in the coalition, I've seen him laugh before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u135	Okay. He can. Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u136	Mr. Van Raan was first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u137	Well... Good. You guys have a deal? Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u138	I am glad that the word 'cheap' is out of the blue and that the Minister has stressed once again that it is not on the agenda. I would like to thank him for reminding me of this. I won't use that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u139	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u140	I thought that was necessary, but it isn't anymore. Fine. Here's what's happening. In this debate we enter Mr Wiebes' house of logic. And then there's a very logical story, about which you should actually say the following. "Yes, indeed, that's right. That's right. And that's right. And that's true. Well, why are we even standing here? The man is absolutely right!"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u141	You mean the Minister of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u142	"The Minister of Economic Affairs is absolutely right." So I actually have two questions. You can count them as two questions, Mr. Chairman. 1. Is the Minister going to take us with him on how he tried to convince the other parties? 'Cause I guess that didn't work out. Everyone has a different opinion than the Minister. While it all makes sense, as the Minister says. 2. Does the Minister not rule out the fact that we will be leaving and indeed all of us, including the people in the public gallery, are saying: well, indeed, he was absolutely right? He doesn't rule that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u143	Mr Van Raan asks me if I can convince him. I don't know. On the first question, no, I'm not gonna do that. I read, I see and I hear the closed lines in the region. He's asking me how I really feel about that. I have spoken to all these people individually and I do not intend to say anything about it. We must take it with the region as it presents itself and with the views that the region gives on this issue, and I stick to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u144	Then I conclude that at least the region did not participate in Mr Wiebes's logic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u145	That's what we're talking about. We have been partners in crime in the damage, in the downsizing of gas extraction, in the vision and the Future Fund. At this point I have explained that I have taken a decision that I found unpleasant but necessary. There are disadvantages for individual residents, but that is in the hope or with the chance that overall safety will increase; if not, we will continue. But I have received a lot more questions about this cut and I would like to answer it. The most frequently asked question has not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u146	I just heard Mr Wiebes say...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u147	"The Minister."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u148	Sorry, Chairman, I'll start over. Madam President, I just heard the Minister say that if we continue to strengthen these houses now, that is dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u149	No, no, no, no. If I knew that, I'd know more than the experts, presumably. No, what I've been saying is that there are enough signals to think that it won't necessarily be safer if you keep going, but that it can also be less safe. That is precisely the question that lies with the experts. Once we know the answer to that, we can move on. If that answer is "it's safest to continue the operation as it is now," then we will continue with the operation as it is now. If we hear 'no, you need security at a higher rate and a lighter reinforcement per house', we will talk to the region about this in order to see how we can shape it. And I don't know the answer. If I knew, I wouldn't need that delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u150	But I went into another aspect. You said it was a dangerous choice. You're actually saying I don't want to be the wrecker of Groningen. Do you think that the province, the municipalities, the civil society organisations and Mr Alders would want to become the wrecker of Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u151	No, I hope not. You should never ask me about the views of the region, but I do not think so. Mr Alders, for example, has a different weighting. He may not rule out that you will find out more with a safety advice, but he has made it clear that, as the face of this operation, he is very committed to following the procedures he has devised with everyone. I also think that is an orderly position. That's why I say it's choosing between two evils. If I have to choose between two evils, I'm not saying anything nice comes out. I'm not saying that. I can see this downside.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u152	You can see the disadvantage and say: it's choosing between two evils. When you took office as Minister, you said: I do not want The Hague to decide what will happen in Groningen. Now we see very great clarity in Groningen. Now we see that all these parties say: please continue, because we have lived in uncertainty and insecurity for so long; we want you to continue. You say: I do not want to determine that from The Hague. You'll both find the options angry. Why not opt for the option of the region, which has been waiting so long?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u153	I carry the system responsibility for safety as a result of gas extraction. Moreover, I believe that once we know how to proceed with the reinforcement operation, the entire spatial design and classification of that operation, within the framework of security, is really more up to the Groningen than to me. Eric Wiebes must be at an appropriate distance from the buttons again. As soon as we have another procedure leading to security, there are choices for area-oriented, order and treatment; they are more to the region than to me. It's not supposed to be from The Hague. But once in half a century, if you create a fundamentally different security perspective, that period was now three months ago, I think you should ask yourself once what that does, what that means and what the answer to that is. Unlike that, I do not intend to intervene in agreements with the region. This is what we are talking about here, by the way. Of course, we had agreements against the background of the other agreement that was in the coalition agreement. That's the 21.6. I broke that deal pretty bad. This also includes the fact that we can also look on the other side to see what goes with it. In such special things, that is allowed, and in other things it is not allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u154	You are now saying that you had broken through the coalition agreement, an agreement with the region, but that region has fought for the reduction of gas extraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u155	Yes, and rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u156	The region has gone massively to the Council of State and the Council of State has destroyed those gas extraction decisions. It was the Groningers who forced you to violate that agreement. I'm gonna ask you again, because now it's doing the other way around. This is something the Groningers want very much, and you wipe it off the table at once. Isn't it very awkward for your position as a minister to put it mildly that you are now at odds with that whole region? What further do you intend to say if very reasonable people, such as the King's Commissioner, are already saying that it is an unbridgeable difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u157	The other day, we sat together and decided that we really have to go on. We share, I think, a number of other principles that I will come up with later. So I see a good base there. Let me put it this way. The team we have with the three levels of government, with all the bizarre political differences, weird other compositions and special history, has done a lot together in eight months by spending an incredible amount of time for the others as far as I am concerned, but that also applies to the others, one for this position, to listen to the region endlessly and sometimes to do things that I think are not good, but wise, given the fact that so much value is attached to it in the region. Yeah, and that team really should be able to move on, especially given that we share a number of starting points. I'll get to that in a minute. Frankly, I have more confidence in this cooperation than I do when I read the media. Well, I guess that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u158	In reply to a question from Mr Nijboer, the Minister said that we are doing everything necessary for security. If after 1 July it turns out that most of those 1,588 houses are just as unsafely assessed as they are now, then we just keep going. That is, I think, a very good commitment from the Minister. But I also think that a lot of Groningers who hear this now think: then you will see that for my house on 1 July something falls on the mat on which the mark is: your house is safe, nothing else has to happen about it. Then someone like that thinks: I fish like Groninger behind the net. Especially in this batch of 1,588 houses, those are often residents who, together with the neighborhood, have looked with the village at the way in which that reinforcement operation also benefits the viability and sustainability, to just a pleasant village. What perspective does the Minister offer to the Groningen people in those 1,588 homes that not only is everything necessary for security going to happen, but that he will continue to work with them to make that total package of living and sustainability possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u159	That's a very good question. He's premature, but I'm gonna answer him anyway. Which is kind of weird, but that's what I'm getting at. The Cabinet letter of 29 March already said that it is clear that when you press a pause button, your residents who are already in a very uncertain position, will wait longer for something. I must honestly say that many have underestimated that uncertainty. I belong in that lineup, too. This also applies to many people, including in Groningen. The inhabitants, our Groningers, may have heard other things in that too. They may have heard: I'm not getting a message at all soon.They say "July," but I don't believe it. Mr Nijboer belongs in that group. Some of the residents have thought: my house will not be made safe at all. Perhaps they secretly thought that Mr Van Raan's austerity statement was on the agenda. Maybe they thought they weren't gonna get their turn anymore. That unrest is understandable. I think so too, but then I come to Mr Jetten's point that this delay might have been particularly bad for these people, because, as we know by now, they had started to make the best of it in the meantime. Yeah, there's a chance your house will need a lot of reinforcement. There's also a chance it'll be demolished. One of the crying people who shot at me was in that group. He didn't know that for sure, but he said he'd hear it then and then. You're not gonna be waiting for your house to be demolished. Several people in this room can tell me if that is the Groningen mentality, but those people have tried to make the best of it and get something positive out of it. Call it "fertilizer." They have started thinking: if that happens, can we do something with sustainability, can we do something with housing improvement, can we do something with district improvement, can we do something with the built environment and that has a coincidence? In the North, it's called a "couple opportunity." Then you're thinking about couple opportunities and then someone comes and says: I'm gonna take a look for another three months; I'm not quite sure if this is necessary. If that had been said a year earlier, perhaps we would have put out the flag and said that we might need to strengthen less. But once you're in it and try to make the best of it, it's kind of crazy to go back and make it the "unbest." You know what I mean? Once you're in something, you think, "Now I'm gonna make the best of it." And then you don't really know what's best, because you have to wait a little longer. I then asked for help from my colleague from BZK. After the gas decision, I started thinking with the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the question: what can you do? You can say: in the trade-off, I choose this postponement and not pointless demolition. But for those people, you did something. No one knew what was going to happen to his house, but everyone took everything into account and started thinking. You intervened in that trial. Then what are you gonna do about it? I started thinking about that with the Secretary of State. I have also been talking to the region about this. But, in all honesty, that conversation hasn't brought us together yet. Maybe I was not sufficiently convincing or maybe BZK was not sufficiently convincing, but at least we continued that process. We've been thinking about the question, what could you possibly do for this? What makes me feel uncomfortable is this. So far, I have always maintained that I am speaking first with the region. Someone said, "Why don't you go tell them there?" To my regret, the region was not on speaking terms with me. I was with them, but one-way traffic doesn't help either. I am therefore in the unfortunate situation that there is an unfinished conversation with the region. I haven't been able to take the region. It's not just me. But what can you do with the 1,588 houses? Let me be clear: that can never be about safety, because safety must be safeguarded. Experts determine what is needed. The NAM has to pay for it. That can't be about safety. For that, everything that is necessary must be done anyway. Ready! So it's only about things that you can do on top of security, those dreams and ambitions that people were going to develop. What can you think about? I think purely of the residents. I'm really focusing on the Groningers in that group of houses. It may be that strong reinforcement or demolition is still needed. Then you can still match all those ambitions. But where reinforcement is needed without demolition, there are also possibilities. Of course, it depends on what residents want: is that something about sustainability, viability or housing improvement? Once again, security cannot be the issue. We have looked at this and I am therefore playing with the idea of making a kind of 'budget 1,588' for this batch, which Mr Van der Lee thinks I have made an unfortunate decision. I can't do that alone. I think logic forces me, and popularity isn't for sale in this position anyway. But a budget of 1,588. My colleague from BZK has designed and developed all of this, but he says that, first of all, there are resources and regulations in the housing sphere, such as the discount on the landlord tax. That's relevant, because about 1,000 or 1,100 of those homes are corporate homes. There are all kinds of state schemes in the context of sustainability and the release of natural gas. I have added the following to the discussions, but that has not gone further. For all homes that do not need to be demolished, but for which we do want to make use of what are called the couple opportunities, we can release an amount of up to 40 million. We have promised the region that there should also be a kind of Groningen fund, just for development. Spatial, economic, social; those things. I have strong ambitions with that, but you could make a contribution from that as well. Furthermore, it is obvious, if you are going to do something about built environment, that you can also appeal to housing corporations and the province itself for your own contribution. In this case, we do not think it is unreasonable at all, as I have done with the Minister of BZK, to match that amount and add it again from the Empire. Then you have a budget. How big that is depends on questions like what kind of need there is for whom, and whether you can make use of one or the other. It's a matter of pretty significant resources soon. Shared on 1,588 homes, these can be significant amounts. What are you doing with that? This is where it sticks, because I don't know. I've spoken to more Groningen administrators lately, to my regret. I love them more than Groningen residents. You did it the other way around. But we didn't talk to them all. You can only do something about that with those residents, the housing corporations and the governments. If I choose between two evils, it is undeniable that what I choose is still angry. And evil deserves something. There's got to be something against evil. But I haven't moved on with that. Once again, we have not yet fallen into each other's arms on this issue. That may be due to my presentation or to the plan, but at least there are possibilities. That's all on top of safety and not on top of that. Never "instead," always "on top."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u160	Thank you for this comprehensive answer. If I sum up the Minister correctly, he says that all houses that are unsafe will be reinforced anyway. On top of that, I will talk to the residents in Groningen of those 1,588 houses in the near future to also make possible those other expectations and ambitions that were there in terms of livingability and sustainability. That is what the Minister wants to do, and I am very pleased that he is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u161	The summary is too one-sided and even misleading on one point. I am looking straight at Mr Jetten: am I talking to the residents? No, wait a minute. Mr Wiebes is not going to have a good conversation there with a cup of tea about what the residents want. I think we can predict that. But he does want it to happen. I'm excited about this, too, and I'd like to, but it's only possible with Groningen. Again, so far, I haven't been able to convince them of that. That could be me, too. The plan isn't ready either. It's not ready and ready. I can't transfer it. That's all true, but I think it's worth doing that together. That's what this means. The Secretary of State, who really knows about this, must participate. I would also like to join, because I really think that choosing between two evils requires something. The county has to be involved, too. The corporations need to be involved. And in the end, it's nothing but the people of Groningen and not the word "me." That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u162	Thank you for this commitment from the Minister. Good thing he wants to do that not only with the inhabitants of Groningen, but also with the drivers we have there. But when do people, for example in Overschild, hear what that means to them? Is that around July 1st? Look, they had to wait till July 1st. There's gonna be some advice from the Mining Council. What if the opinion is completely unclear? Then the minister says: then we go for the old variant and we just get reinforcement old style. Suppose the advice is, we're gonna do a lot less. Then how does the Minister look at it? Can he really guarantee safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u163	Wait a minute; these are a lot of different questions. Look, if the experts say that I can guarantee safety with other measures, then apparently I can guarantee safety with other measures. That must be a no-brainer. I think there are two important questions: where do you get clarity on 1 July and how does this plan work on that? Of the latter I am in all honesty not alone the influencer. In fact, I'm the one who can have the least influence on it, except that I can offer it and participate, along with my colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. So it's also kind of up to us to see how far we get with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u164	Then I call on the Minister to take steps, together with the region, before the debate we will have right after 1 July, to see how it can be worked out in concrete terms. Then we can probably have a debate here on 3 or 4 July around 1 July; then I'll also look at the chairman and clarify all those people who are here, including from Overschild, but it also applies to others.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u165	Yeah, but I'll have to give you one warning. Look, I'm working with the region. I've never, not once, discussed something that wasn't finished in the region with others. I am now being asked about ambitions, and we have not yet come to a conclusion on the basis of all kinds of circumstances. That can also be because it's a bad plan or whatever. I want to have the opportunity to listen very seriously to the arguments of my regional directors about their feasibility. If they think something can't be done, I have to listen to it at some point. I want the space to give the people I consider my teammates in Groningen the space to tell me that I've lost my mind. So I'm not gonna make any promises to Mrs. Mulder here alone. I want to make a promise that I will sit down with my friends and raise this, but I am not going to speak for them. They have to hold the arm to say the Empire is crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u166	I think they do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u167	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u168	I think they will, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u169	Do they think the Empire is crazy? Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u170	I actually want to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u171	I really do have a few points. Can I try to move on with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u172	Actually, I was going to suggest that you move on. You have also said a great deal through interruptions, but continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u173	I have said that there are a number of things about which the region and I share beliefs, and I have to say quite frankly: that has been the case since the extraction letter, and they are also shared here in this Chamber. You don't have to have much political feeling and you don't have to afford much empathy in the Groningen people that it's all about, to know that if it says "we're going to count a year and you'll hear from us" on 1 July, that's not going to happen. Everyone knows that. I can't. Because uncertainty over a long period of time about your safety is subjective security. We have to take that into account. Subjective security is an objective fact, I dare say. "Feelings are facts, too," but it is. This means that we have some sort of clarity soon after 1 July. One thing I want to say, and one thing I'm not gonna say, and I'm gonna say it both ways. What I am going to say is that it must therefore be clear that, soon after 1 July, we must give clarity to the residents about the here and now, the perspective of action. It is, of course, also true that, if there is no clarity, we must fall back on something that will at least guarantee that safety is guaranteed. What I'm not going to do is describe exactly "under what circumstances," because I'm talking about an advice I don't know. I don't have the Mining Council at the table every day. I don't really have one at the table to ask what his advice looks like. I can't do that; they advise me. I'll take this opportunity for something else. We need that clarity. Those need the residents of the club call it the administrative team. So I need them together with my colleagues from the Mining Council. That in itself requires a lot of experts. Everyone knows, you know that, I know that and they know that even experts do not know that much after all, because there are uncertainties. That's true. The most learned statistician always knows how big the uncertainties are. We can't have that. There are uncertainties, but then I say this: I prefer experts with expert judgment to just tell them what they think is the right answer, rather than leave it to me, not an earthquake expert, or my colleagues in the region to do something about it. Then I prefer to have as sharp advice as possible that says: weighing everything up and after we have looked at it with expert judgment, this is the right way to go. That helps and that is important, because then we do not have to argue about it or interpret it. That is necessary, and I call upon the Council of mine to do so. It means, therefore, that soon after 1 July we must prevent Mr Nijboer's evil dream from becoming a reality, because let's be honest: one more year...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u174	Then I would like to know whether you have completed the topic of strengthening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u175	Well, I've completed the point of "strengthening," I think, to a large extent. Then I have a number of points on that consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u176	Before you proceed, Mr Van der Lee on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hold the minister high, and when we talk for a long time, we usually understand what we mean. I think I have listened carefully to the Minister, but I still have one problem. That is that there was agreement with the region that the third batch, that of 1,581 homes, could be mirrored by that route with that new advice that the Minister has just described. There is no agreement on the second and I do not understand why it was not said at the time: let us talk with each other and submit this to them. Why the one-sided choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u178	I just went into that. I have explained the choice between two evils and I sincerely hope that there are all techniques to give clarity quickly. I sincerely hope that the Mines Council realises that uncertainty here is in any case extremely damaging to subjective safety. I'd like to give that assurance quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u179	Mr. Van der Lee, this is your fifth question and the minister is halfway there. I'm just saying. So...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u180	I think I'm halfway there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u181	As I said yesterday to Mr Alders, I have concerns about the pace of reinforcement. Over 2,000 homes are now about to be strengthened. I asked about the builders and whether there is any capacity available. I'm getting signals that capacity was available, but that it's been used for other things as a result of lack of clarity. I do not know if that is true, but let us say that the advice is that we continue on the old road. This means that we need to strengthen more houses, that we need to strengthen the homes of the 1.467 group. Then my concerns are not yet over the pace at which that happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u182	Neither is mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u183	Can the Minister indicate before 1 July or around 1 July, if that is the opinion, how we should look at it, so that we can move in that direction? Otherwise, as I said yesterday at Alders, we will end up in some sort of paper reality, in a false safety, and I do not want to end up in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u184	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u185	I want people to have real safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u186	Mrs Mulder repeats exactly my greatest concern. Since November, I have had a knot in my stomach about this operation and I say honestly: the egg of Columbus has not yet been found. I know that if those houses need to be reinforced, it has to be. Then there's got to be something. I don't know now. I'm really sorry about this. I hate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u187	There was an almost Wiebesian reflection on expert judgements and how they were all put together, but the key point is that those experts have been there, at home, that they have looked at it, that they have given an opinion on it and that at last there was certainty what would happen. But now everything is clouded again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u188	No, I think Mr Nijboer knows, because he knows a great deal about it, that the architectural reference..................................................................................................................................................................................... Maybe that doesn't mean anything. That's also a safe science. Then we know it's unchanged and we can just keep going. But maybe it means something. Let us put it this way: I will not be the one to tell Mr Nijboer that it will be different, but he cannot be the one to explain to me, based on the knowledge we have now, that it will not change anything. We're gonna see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u189	I didn't understand anything about this answer. I'm sure that's up to me. The point I made is that there have all been experts lately, that there have been opinions, that there have been agreements, and that there has been certainty. This has now become uncertain by the Minister's decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u190	Yes, but Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u191	My question is this. I keep saying that on 1 July these people have no clarity. The Minister makes that a little ridiculous, of...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u192	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u193	...the dream...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u194	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u195	...that'll take a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u196	We agree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u197	In practice, I think this is going to be a very big problem for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u198	Well, that problem shouldn't arise. I'm not making fun of it, no, I'm joining you. Who thinks... Let us then ask the political question: who thinks that someone in this Chamber or in this profession will get away with saying to people later: oh, you have to wait another year? Mr. Nijboer, you don't believe that yourself. I don't believe it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u199	Good. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u200	The problem is, I think it's such a paper reality. I'm really here... I think it's such a paper reality!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u201	It is almost impossible to understand here in the Chamber, so I would ask the people in the public gallery to hold back a little, no matter how difficult that may be. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u202	July 1st there will be such a new standard and people would know within one or two weeks what happens to their homes. You can't do that in practice, can you? That's not how it works, is it? It hasn't been that way in recent years, has it? Then it really takes months and often two and a half years! So there's no way... How can the Minister claim that after July 1st, you'll have clarity about your home in a few weeks? Then everyone has to... That's impossible, isn't it? That's not how it works, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u203	You have made this point clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u204	I'm giving the experts a chance to provide that clarity. We also know that if there is no clarity at all, we are obliged to fall back on something we do have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u205	The Minister has just clearly outlined the dilemma he faced in the choice of batch 1,588. He also explained that the call for reinforcement can sometimes also be radical. What I see now is that it can be socially disruptive that a cut has been made, especially in the village of Overschild. I had an interrupting debate with Mr Nijboer. If the Minister looks back on what he has just said about the budget 1.588, the discussion with the region and the report on security that is still coming and he is projecting it on Overschild, can he outline the perspective for Overschild?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u206	That does require a lot from someone who ultimately depends on others. I don't think you can do anything until you know what's ultimately the clear picture that people have to move on with. If that is unchanged, the outlook is also unchanged. It may be that if there were large amounts of demolition and new construction and they were replaced by reinforcement, the chances of coupling would decrease. Then it is good to give the Minister of BZK with the region with all the help you can offer the opportunity to ensure that there is a budget to allow people to fulfil some of those ambitions in a different way. That's how I see it, but I don't want to stand here and tell the Groningers what they should want or find. I can't. That's why I'm saying I'm a little helpless here. This is what I have to do with the region. I see all kinds of possibilities. BZK took a very good look at that. The two of us in the cabinet are excited about that. Yeah, I'd like something with that. But in the end, I don't want it. Others have to want it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u207	I think it is very good that the Minister says that we should not decide this from The Hague for people, but also really with the region and with the residents themselves and that we should put their wishes at the centre. Of course, there was a plan at the bottom, so let's see what's possible to accommodate people in it. Eventually, it's also about that local community. It's very dear to both of us, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u208	Yeah, sure. The residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u209	Then Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u210	I actually want to build on that last point, the residents. As I said in my speech, the Groningen people I speak to really often say: it's about us, but it's not with us and just ask us what we want. I would like to ask the Minister if he can see room for this in the follow-up to the call for reinforcements. Of course, we hope very much that it will be more flexible and that these waiting times will be shorter. We have just discussed this in detail. It is really important that Groningers have more control over the way in which that reinforcement is arranged and that they have freedom of choice in it. They must also be discussed how they want it to be. I was wondering if the Minister would see room for that and how he would look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u211	That is, of course, an easy question from Mrs Yeşilgöz. You ask the most liberal question from the whole debate to a liberal. The second or third time I was in Groningen, I was facing a gentleman who was furious that there would be a chance that his house would have to be demolished. He didn't say he was expecting safety advice, but he said, tomorrow I'll hear what's happening to my house. I'd never heard anyone talk so distantly about their own house. Apparently, we think it's normal for someone to decide what happens to your house. That's very strange for me. If there's a problem with my house, I'd say maybe I can just take the lead myself. Pay me off and I'm gonna take care of something. You have to be able to do that in all kinds of ways. It's not like you can say that you suddenly need three times the budget or your house has to be three times the size of the old one. That's what we all see. So there are also normal rules. But that you can direct that and make choices about it, I take it for granted. Why should you not use the opportunity to choose an apartment with a lift if you lived in a terraced house and were older? We have to make our own choices. I have always been in favour of making this choice as wide as possible. I am also assured that these possibilities exist. Let's not say they're not here. I'm always excited to let as many people as possible make their own choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u212	The Minister says that after 1 July we need to clarify the reinforcement opinions very quickly. That reinforcement advice for the people will not be there on 2 July. The great fear would be that people would have to wait another year. If that clarity doesn't come soon, we'll go back to the old procedure. Then what is an acceptable deadline?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u213	That also depends on what kind of uncertainty is left. That's exactly the point I can't say anything about. Then I will prelude to an advice that I do not know very far, for homes of which I do not know by heart all the conditions. It's a lot of different groups of houses in all kinds of different villages. I can't do that. I think we understand each other very well here and we all know that we don't have a year and I'll tell you. Nor can it take six months or four months to say to people: boy, wait a minute. I know you didn't. But to make me puzzle in a landscape that isn't there yet, I just can't. I tried to keep going. Do you want me to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u214	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u215	We had the consultation one of the spokesmen called it "the escalation consultation," which is well-chosen on the basis of Article 7 of the Cooperation Agreement. That's a regular thing. That's for the parties to ask. That consultation is, of course, carried out from EZK under my responsibility. I am not going to go into what and how it is going to work. I do see it as proof that the region but also The Hague are not at their best in written communication. Again and again, correspondence has not led to rapprochement, while we come to a huge end when we sit at the table. We can now analyze that this hasn't really helped either. The piece has created a number of confusions, which I explained in the region. I'll be right on to the NAM; that was one point. Another point was that I would not want an area-based approach. If you read it, you might think it is. Of course old images come up, because yes, The Hague may not have been enthusiastic about a territorial approach in the past. So you can read that in it, but should not be read in it. It's only about the period until 1 July. No, the reinforcement call isn't off the track. And no, the Empire is not going to do the strengthening policy unilaterally from The Hague. Those are all things that I've been explaining and texting about. But there was also a point, and that was in itself in line with the cabinet letter of 29 March, which the region had a major problem with. I didn't need much time just to embrace their arguments. It also said that an inspection engineering program for a particular group of houses was re-established until the 1st of July. That would prevent the mirroring. Moreover, could we say that it would be useful to re-examine the inspection programme for the next four weeks, on the basis of a study to be carried out, until 1 July? I found the region very convincing in this, so that goes as we agreed. An important point in that was the NAM. What exactly is that about? What's in it and what makes it possible to come up with that idea is that the hazard-and-risk model is being used and that the NAM runs it. That's part of the whole program. That programme plays a role in that. The one who serves it is the NAM. It is not a service assignment because they are not in service, but the NAM has accepted the order to produce model outcomes for discussion between drivers. But that doesn't mean the NAM will be at the table from now on. I think that deserves to be clarified. So far, of course, the NAM has not left in the current operations, just as they were in the damage until a few months ago. The batches, the 2,000 houses, still have the NAM. That's the on-going operation. I agreed at the beginning with the drivers that the NAM has no influence on the whole refurbishing, not even on how we are designing a new program on 1 July. Or it's the same program, you can. But they're not one of them. We have also agreed with each other that they will not only be placed at a distance in the ongoing operation after this, but will go out completely. I have never left a trace of doubt that I am very much in favour of it. In the coalition agreement, the damage was caused by the remote NAM. I took out the NAM. I have chosen a fairly rigorous translation of the coalition agreement. That will be done in the same way with the reinforcements. The NAM will not be given any role in the ongoing operation. There must be an independent assessment of the risks and of what is necessary for safety. That shouldn't go past the NAM's budget table. I hope I have been able to convince the region that my intentions are not only pure, but even with some fanaticism. I think I should look at the individual questions of the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u216	The minister says that the NAM is out and is no longer at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u217	No, no. In the ongoing operation, at the workflow, they're still at the table and they're still in because that's their position. When redesigning the future, they're not at the table. We'll do it with the drivers. In the future, they will also be removed from the ongoing operation. It's legally anchored. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u218	How convenient is it, then, that the Minister has now announced that he wants to be legally anchored, just now that the interview report has been leaked?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u219	Well, it's kind of in the coalition agreement that we do. It has long been known that I choose a more rigorous way of doing that. I have also explained this in detail. The NAM will go away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u220	I asked a question about the NAM in the first term. For me, this is the first gas debate. I understand that we depend on the model of the NAM when it comes to linking the seismic activity and the calculations that lead to assessments of security risks. Now I've gained experience with models in a different capacity. It's important who puts the data in and who interprets what comes out. I'm not sure who's going to do that in the future. Does the NAM keep doing that? Is that what others are gonna do? I think it is important to clarify this in order to avoid future misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u221	The model is not the model with the views of the Dutch Petroleum Company, where the opinions of management appear in the spreadsheets. It's an internationally validated model. Some time ago we asked TNO to build or build a similar model in an independent way to make sure that we are independent of any influence of NAM. But it's not like we're dealing with an opinion here. This is a well-known, validated piece of work. Nevertheless, the validation and construction of an independent model continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u222	The minister said the NAM wasn't at the table. On the basis of the interview report, we have to establish that it was just true, that they sat at the table with Hans Alders, the secretary-general of the ministry and other people to talk about Groningen. Then the Minister's statement didn't add up, did it? That's one. Two. Hans Alders stated yesterday in the hearing that the NAM took the initiative for this escalation meeting. What was the reason to call this meeting?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u223	I don't even know. Look, there's just a partnership agreement. Article 7 says that you can ask for such a conversation. Nor is it true that the NAM is nowhere at the table. I think the NCG is three times a week with the NAM, because it's in the on-going operation and has to get everything past the NAM's office. But this is about the considerations about what to do until 1 July, after 1 July, and about what this new operation should look like. That doesn't include the NAM. I do that with the drivers and I've never had the NAM there at the table. He's not one of them. Soon it will also happen at the running workflow without the NAM. That's the story here. I didn't quite hear it, but I have the feeling that the NCG also told a very nuanced, correct story about it yesterday. What I've seen of it seemed like a proper representation of how it's going.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u224	Last question, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u225	The Groningers watch TV, too. They'll see that on Friday. The minister says: "The NAM was not at the table, is not at the table and never comes to the table again," but the NAM is at the table. In fact, the minister is also negotiating with Shell and Exxon and the NAM. The NAM is still with everything. It's still in the middle of everything. Every time you ask, the Minister says "yes, but that makes sense" or "it makes sense that that model is being used" or "it makes sense that they are sitting there at the table." I don't think that makes any sense. I think we should get the NAM out. I think the Minister should do that. If he's not, he shouldn't say they're not at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u226	This is gonna be a game of words. Of course if we negotiate with the oil companies... That is not where the NAM is, but then there are the oil companies, and Mr Nijboer thinks that is even worse. But we are talking here about policy-making in an intermediate period until 1 July. They provide a model result for this, but not anymore, because it seemed superfluous to me. We're not gonna do that. I agreed with the region, so that is no longer the issue. But it is not true that they are at the table on the future. It's not like they're sitting at the table anymore, I told you. Yeah, now we're stuck with the old cases, but that wasn't the point at all. It's not the so-called batch of the 1,467, the ongoing operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u227	You said that three times, I think. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u228	Yeah, I said that three times. I'd be willing to say it 12 times...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u229	Well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u230	... because I really like this. I think Mr Nijboer knows that. In the category of 'unanswered questions' Mr Van der Lee asked me what the investment deduction costs small fields. Because of a shift effect between the UK and us, it only generates money. That's just because we'll focus less on gas elsewhere and more on these fields. It's about the North Sea. So that's not something that costs anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u231	I see that Mr Van der Lee wishes to respond, but I will see if there are any more questions from Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u232	No, we're with Mrs. Beckerman now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u233	Mr. Van der Lee, then. Your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u234	I do understand that more gas extraction also generates money, but I want to know exactly how big that deduction is. What can these companies deduct from this increase from 25% to 40%, given the estimated increase in profits from extraction? That's just a simple factual question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u235	That's another question. The question was, what does it cost? If you give more deduction that shifts the balance between the UK and us and gets you more revenue, there may be more revenue on balance. Then let me answer the question in split. Mr Van der Lee wants to know what the deduction costs and what the additional income are and then the balance is positive, but he wants to know each of the parts. I appreciate this precision. I'm going after that. Mrs Beckerman said: when will we get the agreement of cooperation now? I have been clear about that from 1963 many times. I have to respect that other agreements were reached at the time. I am now negotiating with the oil company on a new adaptation of the gas building. In fact, I hope to send something about that shortly. I have said that my aim is to make as much public as possible. The intermediate position I can give is that there appears to be a lot of business confidential information in the agreement, which makes me feel more limited than I would like. But I will continue to say that, under this condition, I will strive for the greatest possible openness towards this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u236	I really do not think that answer is sufficient. Shell, Exxon and the NAM, with the State, have really caused a disaster in Groningen. Each time new data of how great that power was, how great the power of the State was, what the NAM did, what Shell did, what Exxon did and how they sat at the table. Every time we find out we're too late. Hero Sijbrand Nijhoff has made everything public. Why do you refuse to disclose everything? You refer to company confidential data, but why doesn't Groningen go beyond that company confidential data? Why don't we put the interests of the Groningen people above profit?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u237	Groningen should not depend on the oil companies, but on the government, which concludes a contract with them here. Anything where a sense of unreasonableness, dishonesty or any bottleneck must be felt, the government must be addressed. Moreover, the government is sometimes forced to conclude contracts or agreements with private parties. Those private parties may ask not to disclose certain information about this because otherwise they will find themselves in trouble in their business operations, elsewhere in the world or anywhere else. That's reasonable. So Mrs Beckerman should not appeal to the oil companies. She must address me in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u238	I am perfectly happy to address you as an unreliable government, because that is precisely the problem: Groningers no longer have confidence in it and have lost it to the government for years. We just want to be clear. The Council of State also said yesterday: in the law you sent them, it is still unclear who is actually responsible. Who's gonna pay later? Is that gonna get NAM and Shell away with it? What part will the inhabitants of the Netherlands pay? Why don't you release all these documents and appointments?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u239	These are very reasonable questions that need to be answered, but that has nothing to do with the openness of this agreement of cooperation. Mrs Beckerman has a right to know who is responsible for what damage and what share the government has in it. That's the kind of answer she'll get from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u240	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u241	Then Mr Kops, who asks whether it is true that the landlord lift is going up to pay the reinforcement costs. The answer is no. Absolutely not. Mr Kops also asked whether the region could choose its own coordinator as its successor. There is, of course, an important steering task now. Under no circumstances shall there be any delay in the ongoing reinforcement operation due to a lack of leadership. That's roughly 2,000 homes. So I will consult with the region on how we should provide for this. The complication here is that this person is on EZ's payroll, but I have indicated to the region that I want us to be able to live together with someone who is probably going to do it temporarily first. After that, we will have to look for someone who can do that more definitively, but first we need to know what role it really will be, because we have not yet figured it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u242	Just to confirm, because in Groningen there are a lot of rumors about the landlord tax. If I have understood the Minister correctly, the landlord levy is not going to go up now and in the future, and then to pay for the reinforcement operation. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u243	In any case, there is no direct relationship in the budget between one or the other, but it is not the case that we are now using the landlord levy as a result of gas extraction. The security of supply: what is the pace? That pace is just in the basic path, I say to Mrs Yeşilgöz. Mrs Dik-Faber has asked how we are going to ensure that there is sufficient time for the Arbiter Soil Movement. The Arbiter Soil Movement comes into the picture when people who have an old damage report do not accept the offer they get from the NAM. They can refer that to the arbitrator. No later than July 1st is according to the current schedule by the NAM to 100% of the old cases you will only name one case an offer made. With the NAM I agreed that there would be more time for the residents in question to register with the arbitrator. This will be extended until 1 September, so people will have a certain period of reflection. Does 10 apply to Groningen? Explicitly. I always use the term that the standard is being adjusted. This standard is not being adjusted and we must not let anyone get into uncertainty about it. Mrs Dik-Faber also asks how the conversations are going with the large consumers. Monter, but not always easy, but on schedule. I find it difficult to give a single picture of 53 different large consumers. The overall picture is that we are on schedule there. It also asks whether new construction projects that have been set in motion can still be gas-free. There's just an arrangement whereby the parties can make an exception. Samsom's even working on that. There also seem to be projects which would be gas-powered and which still go gas-free by using some kind of return scheme. Of course, we've made a huge turn. From now on, new construction projects are gas-free, after a certain transitional period, so that is a very big step. Mr Van Raan has put his ratio against mine. I recognize that these two are not quite the same. Mr Nijboer has three wishes. I think I've been really clear about the NAM. When we see each other in the corridors, we do not think otherwise, I say in the direction of Mr Nijboer. The NAM shouldn't be in the workflow. That has probably caused a lot of delay. The second is that I am not at all averse to an area-based approach at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u244	Would you like to explain something?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u245	The minister says, "If I see him in the hallways, we don't think otherwise." What's that supposed to mean? Like I'm saying something else here? If that is meant to be, then I think that is quite wrong, unpleasant and incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u246	Let us not be uncomfortable and wrong. I'll tell you right away. I've been trying to convince him of what I'm not only finding, but I'm also going to do: NAM from the workflow. The future images will not be made by the NAM. The assessment of the properties to be strengthened or of the damage will not be carried out by the NAM. The budgetary constraints will not come from the NAM. The determination of the risks will not come from the NAM. None of them. I don't know, but I can't imagine us thinking differently about this. I don't see the space in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u247	Okay, well, then that's made clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u248	There's a suggestion that I'd find something in the hall or something other than here in the Chamber. That is really not right and it is also wrong. It doesn't do Parliament any good if that suggestion lingers here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u249	Then you've made this clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u250	That's not my suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u251	Then it's obvious. Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u252	Mr. Chairman. I handed over the Green Paper on natural gas to the Minister. That is privacy proof, according to the new rules, but it gives a very nice insight that there are still a lot of projects going on. Residents watch TV and see that they have to get rid of the gas. At the end of the year the new house will be delivered and they will get a gas connection. I can't do that anymore. I see the resident is facing the developer. Where are you doing okay? I would like to mention Utrecht as an example. Utrecht takes the initiative, with the residents and the developers, to sit down and come up with a solution, with the network operator. Can the Minister from his position, together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, influence that these kinds of examples, which put people's shoulders together, are being rolled out? Too many projects are now on the gas and we all have to close it again in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u253	Yes. I'm going to talk to my colleague from BZK about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u254	The Minister removes the contribution of the Party for Animals with: we have different ratios. That's right. He says: we put the ratios against each other. Where we do not differ, I have heard the Minister say it on Sunday, and that is that we share the importance of solutions that we now have, the importance of others and later, both. He even called it a liberal starting point on Sunday. My question is this. That is what I said in my speech. The way in which the substitution of gas from Groningen is used is because gas from small fields and gas from abroad... has an impact on later. We asked the Minister to give him an appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u255	Yeah, that's right. In fact, I do not even think that we are very different on this point, but I think that I am making a completely different assessment of the pace. Mr Van Raan's logic results in a pace which I am convinced we simply cannot achieve. I appreciate his ambition, but I'll make a different assessment of the pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u256	That may be so, and it is, but that does not mean that we are significantly slowing down the other efforts we need to achieve renewable energy if we continue to invest, for example, EUR 0.5 billion in an NO plant, in a nitrogen plant. Are we at least in agreement that the money does not go to the sustainable industry? You can only invest that money once if you invest it in the fossil industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u257	Yeah, but I also stand for people to cook and heat until they do it in a different way. It is not that you can stop the supply indefinitely in the belief that demand will automatically fall. If we choose a tempo that the Netherlands doesn't keep track of, we'll put Dutch people in the cold. And we're going down real fast. No one here thought a year ago we could go down so hard with the Groningen Field. No one thought that. Maybe people in the bleachers? You don't think so. But it has to be possible. The climate agreement is aimed at seeing what that pace can be. For the moment, I do not think that we will keep the Netherlands warm if we go down so hard with the Groningenveld but do not build a nitrogen factory. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u258	Once again, it is true that we differ on that, but I would like to object to the Minister's reasoning. He says we can't do anything tomorrow if we don't want to put the Netherlands in the cold. No one wants that, of course. I ask the Minister not to put this on us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u259	No, no, no. I do not blame Mr Van Raan for wanting to put the Netherlands in the cold. I say to Mr Van Raan that we seem to have a completely different assessment of a realistic timetable. That's what I started, and I'm gonna keep it going. I think he agrees. I have dealt with a lot of points. Mrs Sazias had another question about the cost of the energy transition. Is that right? We have talked a lot about the cost of the energy transition in this Chamber. We believe it to be 0.5% of gross domestic product by 2030. The PBL estimates that this may ultimately cost around €35 per month for a household in 2030, but that includes all costs. So also the costs you get through higher product prices or through taxes or through taxes. All of this, taken together, could lead to that amount. But that is not what this debate is about. In fact, in no way do I say in the direction of the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u260	Actually, that's what I was about to say. I can see you walking to the interrupting microphone, Mrs. Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u261	It's there; it's not wrong yet. Mr. Chairman. I think I've really run out of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u262	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. Then the people from Groningen can return in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u263	Of course, I'd like to give that to the Groningen people. I live in Assen myself, so I know how close it is. However, I would like to take a closer look at a number of motions, so that we may be able to get some more focus. I would like to have the opportunity to do so for 15 minutes. Will you allow that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u264	That's fine. We will.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u265	The next item is the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions for resolutions, but before I read them, I would like to come back to one point. The Minister explained his reasoning with a great deal of text. I understand that, but I think it's a real shame he didn't put the cut somewhere else. He could have taken so many more people, including in Groningen, into his approach if he hadn't cut the batch of 1,588 homes, but then. This is now undermining so much support for something that could perhaps have worked positively, that I think he should reconsider on that point. That is why I shall table the next motion on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Change has unilaterally intervened in the strengthening process of the second batch of 1,588 dwellings;]] [[whereas this is not in line with the principle of good administration;]] [[calls on the Government to reconsider the decision to stop the reinforcement notice for this batch,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van Raan and Mr Sazias.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-475]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u267	Then a broader call to avoid repetition in the future. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the confidence of the Groningen people is repeatedly damaged;]] [[noting that the previous agreements on fortifications, village renewal and the future of Groningen are not being properly complied with;]] [[calls on the Government to comply with the commitments made with the region so that the confidence of the Groningen can be restored,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van der Lee, Beckerman, Nijboer and Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-476]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The other day someone said to me: where Wiebes is, it's chaos and afterwards it's everyone's fault, except for Wiebes. I think that this debate really has a sad outcome, because it is really just one thing: Groningen has to wait again. How long do we know? I think it is very sad that the coalition has closed the queues in this way and is in agreement with the unilateral withdrawal of the agreements with Groningen. I have two motions. The first is about the safety of the Groningen as a priority. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Council of State is highly critical of the legislative proposal to minimize gas extraction;]] [[noting that the Council of State recommends placing the security of the Groningen people above the social interest;]] [[noting that the Council of State states that it is unclear who will be liable for damages and reinforcement;]] [[considers that Groningen's safety importance should be placed above other considerations and that there should be clarity about liability for damage and reinforcement;]] [[calls on the government to amend the law in such a way as to ensure that the safety concerns are taken into account and to clarify who is liable for damages and reinforcement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Beckerman, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van Raan and Mr Sazias.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-477]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u269	My next motion concerns the disclosure of all agreements and contracts. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that gas extraction documents relating to the original agreement do appear in the media but are not shared with the Chamber;]] [[Whereas it is essential for the information position of the House of Representatives to have access to all documents and the failure to share these documents violates Parliament's right to information;]] [[calls on the Government to publish all "secret" agreements and contracts relating to gas extraction and to send them to the House of Representatives, including legal explanations, as appropriate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Nijboer and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-478]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u270	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to wait until Mrs Beckerman has completed her speech, because my question is not about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u271	No, I'm not. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u272	I have a question. I have just heard the Minister, at Mr Jetten's questions, talk in detail about the resources available for co-thinking with the Groningen people and looking and investing in perspective, in the environment. That was the part about security. People have already been preparing. This is about sustainability and you name it. I heard the Minister explain that for a long time. He said: there are resources from BZK, there is real space and I really want to pick up that conversation with the region again to see how we can fill that out. Now I find the following very complicated and I ask Mrs Beckerman, because she is of the same party as Mr Eikenaar, SP deputy in Groningen, who immediately in response sent a tweet saying: well, you see, Groningers can pay for the approach of 1,588 homes themselves. However, I have heard the Minister say in great detail that there are resources. So I find that very complicated. I can't rhyme with that. And I wonder how this contributes to the clarity and certainty that I believe we are all trying to offer the Groningers here. There is an offer on the table...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u273	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u274	...with which hopefully very nice things can be done. How am I supposed to rhyme with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u275	You want clarity and you want clarity. That's what you're saying. One-sided all appointments are thrown off the table. Those were agreements that finally gave the Groningen people who have been in uncertainty for years, who have been waiting for years, certainty and clarity. They're being pushed one-sidedly off the table. It is very nice that the Minister now says: we may be making extra money available for that. But you can't live safe in promises. Groningers have heard promise on promise for years, beautiful words on beautiful words. That often happens during election time, and now after that. But those deeds, they count. And those actions for the 1,588 you're talking about, they were unilaterally removed. Those people are still in uncertainty and the Minister cannot even make it clear how much longer that will last. He doesn't say "yes," but how long it takes, we don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u276	Finally, Mrs Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u277	This didn't come close to answering my very simple question. The Minister replied extensively that there are many resources for these 1,588 homes and households. Not maybe, but he told me in detail that they're here. And the deputy of the SP then tweets: well, those Groningers have to pay for it themselves. That is factually incorrect, and then I express myself very nicely because we are standing in this house. I would like to know how Mrs Beckerman rhymes with that. We try to create that clarity with each other here and then things are put on Twitter that just aren't true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u278	Mrs. Beckerman, a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u279	I do not think we have yet seen a proposal. It's nice that the Minister says we're gonna do something about that later. I don't know whether or not Groningers should contribute to that. Do you know? Does the Minister know?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u280	It would be nice if the region, including Mr Eikenaar, were simply to discuss constructively the new offer that lies ahead, because in the end, of course, we will all get on with it. But that's not what my question is about. It concerns the first motion by Mrs Beckerman and others on the Council of State and the proposal on gas extraction. Just this morning, at the procedural meeting, you could not, in my view, be present at the meeting, and you could not see that we have a report on our contribution, as it goes very well with a legislative proposal, in which you will check everything out, and then we will discuss the legislative proposal. We all want to do that in the last week before the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u281	What is your question, Mrs. Agnes Mulder?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u282	Can you hold the motion, Mrs. Beckerman? Then I'll be able to take a good look at it. If you don't do that now, I'm gonna have to say no, and that bothers me. But, of course, it's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u283	What an incredibly brave attitude you have to give such a sneak to Mr Oakenaar and to the region. You say they just have to go around the table. But the agreements that have been made with that whole region have been one-sidedly wiped off the table. It was a CDA mayor, Mr. Rodenboog, who called it "incorrect administration." I understand that you do not want to go along with this, for the sake of the coalition, but I do find it very painful if you then blame the region and Mr Eikenaar, who are really fighting for the safety of the Groningen people and who now see that those people they are fighting for are still in uncertainty. I'm really sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u284	But the question was about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u285	The question was indeed about the motion. We want to deal with that law as soon as possible, but that law is really being broken by the Council of State. He sees that there are three big problems with it. He says that the safety of the Groningers is still not at the forefront of this bill. He says: it is not clear who will be liable for the damage. The Council of State also says: it is not clear who will be responsible for the reinforcement. If we want to deal with that law quickly, I think it would be a good idea to listen to that renowned institution and to amend that law before we can talk about it. That's what the motion is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u286	Mrs. Agnes Mulder, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u287	This morning I asked the procedural meeting for that haste. Mrs. Beckerman wasn't there. That's all fine; you can do that. But I just asked you to deal with it as soon as possible. It also seems important to me that we take a good look at how to follow the advice of the Council of State. I think it's okay for me to have a little time to take a good look at that. We have to make our contribution to the report next week. We always do that when we're in law enforcement. I think it would be nice if Mrs Beckerman could give some room for that. Her idea is that the region should never have to talk again, because it feels bad. How it deals with the offer, I leave it to the region itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u288	Thank you. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u289	Mr President, I think one more question was asked. The region doesn't have to go around the table ever again. In fact, it was the region that took the first step. They said: Wiebes, please come to Groningen now; you have unilaterally cancelled the appointments, but we would like to talk further. So you can spin and spin whatever you want, but it was the Minister who really wiped out unilateral agreements, not the region. The Groningers are again the victims of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u290	I believe that this point has been raised extensively in the debate. The question is about the motion in part No. 477 and the bill to be dealt with in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u291	I'll think about it. Mrs Mulder, you say that I want to deal with the law as soon as possible. But that is now a flawed law because the Council of State criticises it. I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to adapt him, because the Council of State criticises him. But I'll think about your proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u292	Okay. Thank you. I think you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u293	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u294	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u295	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. We're quitting the gas extraction. That is a historic decision for the safety of the Groningen people. But the earthquakes don't stop overnight. There are already damage and there are houses that need to be reinforced. The developments over the last week have increased the uncertainties. That is why it is good that it has been confirmed once again today that all unsafe houses are being strengthened, without the NAM, with the region and for Groningen. It is not a question of strengthening, but of strengthening. I hope it can be less radical, with less demolition and more perspective for those Groningers. Also for people who may be told after 1 July that demolition-new construction is no longer necessary but that the property can be strengthened in a different way, expectations have recently been created about strengthening the living capacity in villages and neighbourhoods and perhaps also about improvements in residential comfort and sustainability. Mr. Chairman. The Minister has just done a hand-off to the region in order to work together to provide a perspective for these homes as well. The Minister is also willing to use money for this. I'd like to support that with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that with the decision to bring gas extraction to zero, residents of the 1,588 batch of houses will have to wait longer for security;]] [[noting that all houses in the 1,588 batch will be secured;]] [[Whereas expectations have arisen among residents to combine the reinforcement operation with the strengthening of viability, sustainability and neighbourhood approach;]] [[Whereas residents are concerned that the opinions of 1 July do not allow these improvements to continue in terms of quality of life, sustainability and neighbourhood approach;]] [[Calls on the government to enter into consultations with the region in order to provide homes of the 1,588 batch, the Mining Council of which after 1 July 2018 indicates that demolition-new construction is not necessary, with a short-term perspective by jointly agreeing to allow these residents to improve their homes in terms of viability and sustainability;]] [[calls on the Government to report to the Chamber this summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-479]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u296	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply, although of course he has not been very reassuring. It is a pity to have to conclude at the end of such a debate that we have not made much progress and that it has actually been a rather pointless debate. Everyone is angry with the Minister, and rightly so. But nothing concrete is going to change. The Minister insists on his unilateral decision to postpone the strengthening of 1,588 homes pending yet another report. He is also not for a directly elected National Coordinator. The conclusion is that the NAM is still sitting at the table, even if it is only to conclude current cases, as the Minister puts it. Of course he tries to downplay it, but the fact remains that the NAM is just sitting at the table right now, against all promises. So we have not made much progress in this debate. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister decided that 1,588 houses already inspected would not be strengthened for the time being pending a review;]] [[Considering that the victims have had to wait far too long;]] [[calls on the government to stop leaving the victims in uncertainty and strengthen them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Mining Damage Commission, Groningen, only handles claims made after 31 March 2017;]] [[noting that injured persons with older damages are still at the whims of the NAM;]] [[Whereas the NAM shippers with older damages with a much lower amount than the actual damage;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that those who have suffered earlier damages can still go to the Mining Damage Committee in Groningen and receive full compensation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the National Coordinator Groningen is resigning out of discontent;]] [[Whereas the new NCG should in particular not become an extension of the Minister, but an independent coordinator who is solely concerned with the interests of the people affected by Groningen;]] [[calls on the government to allow the new NCG to be democratically elected by the people of Groningen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-480]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-481]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-482]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u297	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Security and trust, that's what it's all about. If you live in Groningen, I think you've been looking around you for years, but unfortunately not forward. I understand that people have been thinking for years, "Is this gonna be okay?" I hope that today, with the clear statements of the Minister, but more importantly, with everything that is going to happen now and the clear agreements we have made on this matter, confidence will slowly be restored step by step. I hope it happens faster, but I'm afraid it'll be slow. The only way we can do that is if we take care of these things properly. The Minister was very clear: the NAM is going away. He was very clear: it is not the question whether we proceed with the reinforcements, but hey. We don't want to rush people out of their homes unnecessarily, and security is central. But if you live in Groningen, I think you're used to it all the time, but not with you. So I just went through the interrupting microphone to ask the Minister if there is a model in which at least the Groningers can talk much more about this and have freedom of choice. He has responded well, but I would still like to record that with a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, on the basis of the integral opinion of the Mines Council on 1 July, the reinforcement operation will be reviewed;]] [[whereas our Groningers are entitled to transparency on how the reinforcement operation is handled;]] [[Whereas lack of involvement of Groningers and lack of clarity about the reinforcement notice cause nuisance and annoyance;]] [[Whereas it is important that Groningers gain more grip and freedom of choice in strengthening their homes;]] [[calls on the government to put residents at the centre and to involve them as fully as possible in the strengthening approach including freedom of choice in ways of strengthening,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Jetten, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-483]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u298	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wish both the minister and the leaders in the region every success in shaping all these agreements. Take the Groningers around the table a lot and get to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u299	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u300	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister for answering all the questions. For my group, a few things are at the heart of this debate. First of all, people's confidence in the government in Groningen. The second point is generous reparation. That has not been very much addressed today, but the old damages cases are being compensated by the NAM and we are now working with a temporary committee, which is going to work quickly to compensate for damage. I really want there to be a perspective for Groningen and that Groningen will be the frontrunner in the energy transition. The final point is the safety of the people in Groningen. It just really shouldn't be under discussion. This was also the subject of most of today's debate. When I talk to the people in Groningen, I notice that there are questions: do we live as safe as people in the rest of the Netherlands and is our house safe? Since there can be no doubt about that, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Meijdam Commission recommended the safety standard of 10 for buildings and dwellings in the province of Groningen;]] [[Whereas the generally accepted standard of 10 means that each individual does not die more than once every 100,000 years as a result of an earthquake or natural disaster;]] [[believes that you should live in Groningen as safely as in the rest of the Netherlands, despite the earthquakes caused by gas extraction;]] [[calls on the Government to fully adhere to the Meijdam standard of 10 at the reinforcement notice in the province of Groningen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Jetten, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-484]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u301	I actually have a question about the motion tabled by the coalition, because I'm kind of wondering what we're actually looking at. Have the four coalition parties, with 76 seats, in such a debate, about Groningen, now agreed a motion for each and each one a success? And are all the motions tabled by the opposition being pushed aside in advance? What is actually being done with the arguments, all of which have been put forward in substance by different parties? Or does the coalition only count to 76 seats, and then a debate is over again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u302	I'm just really sorry about what's going on here. I think that everyone here in this room stands for the safety of the people in Groningen, for the restoration of trust, for clarity for people. And, of course, there are discussions about that and we have also had discussions with each other. But these are important principles, which I believe we all stand for. As was customary in the previous cabinet, which you were part of, the coalition has looked at where it could work together to submit a number of motions, based on the idea that this is good for the people in Groningen. Motions are also tabled by the opposition. I don't have a complete review of all the motions yet. I have just heard a number of motions passed and motions will also be tabled. It has not been said at all that motions will be rejected. Next week's votes will show how we are getting along and, of course, there were differences in the debate today. I cannot do that either, and if those differences in motions are put down, then there will also be different votes on them. We will have to be honest about that, but I do hope that the Chamber, wherever possible and if we agree, can join forces, because Groningen is really not served by political squabbling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u303	I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u304	Thank you, Mr President. We have walked through the Minister's logic today and the conclusion is that we were all wrong or we didn't understand. Promises have been made again and something may also happen in the form of such a promise. We are going to see it and we are also going to see to what extent the house of the Minister's own logic is not in need of reinforcement or destruction. Mr President, I have five motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the broad prosperity of future generations can best be secured by working according to the principle of reduction, reuse and production;]] [[calls on the government to apply strictly the principle of reduction, re-use and production in the phasing-out scenarios, with the switch to high-caloric gas being the very last option,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-485]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u305	I was wondering if the Animal Party would also experience a dilemma in transferring companies from high-caloric gas to high-caloric gas when companies are not yet ready to switch to sustainable measures. Does the Party of Animals really prefer to see waiting and reducing gas? Is that what the Party for Animals actually says here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u306	No. As usual, the CDA again understands nothing of the Party for Animals. It is true that it has been said since 1980: we have to switch, because gas and the fossil industry are not sustainable for climate reasons. Mrs Mulder knows as well as I do that the counter forces to keep that fossil lock-in are great and it is time for that to end. And if that means that for the sake of the broad concept of prosperity... That also means climate safety. Just as Mrs Mulder puts the security of the citizens in Groningen first, it is time that the CDA, as steward of this planet, also put the security of the climate first. And if that means that economic interests are sometimes damaged because it has to be organized differently, then so be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u307	Mrs. Agnes Mulder, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u308	With this reasoning, the Party for the Animals is actually blocking the construction of a nitrogen plant, but the Groningers could benefit directly from it for their safety. I ask Mr Van Raan whether he sees a dilemma in that. He only throws up fog here and then pretends that the CDA and the Party for the Animals will never come together. For that, he drags half the world, including climate change. You can do all that, but it says more about you, Mr. Van Raan, than about the CDA. We want that safety for the Groningen!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u309	I suggest you move on, because you still have a stack of motions. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u310	Well, I don't want Mrs. Mulder...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u311	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u312	It would be a good thing to see if we could invest that half billion that seems to be needed to replace 7 million cubic metres of gas in other forms. Now we're actually just replacing one gas for another. That would be my answer. Mr. Chairman. I shall continue my argument. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the National Coordinator Groningen, mayors in the region, and those injured in the earthquake area, had faced unilateral termination of agreements on the reinforcement operation;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that agreements on the reinforcement operation can no longer be unilaterally terminated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the planned imports of foreign gas and the production of nitrogen for the conversion of gas are additional burdens on the climate;]] [[calls on the government to compensate for the emissions associated with this by additional climate action, other than CCS,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Raan, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Beckerman, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-486]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-487]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u313	Two more. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that gas extraction at sea will be fiscally stimulated;]] [[Whereas the tax advantages of fossil fuels should be put to an end;]] [[calls on the government to use the tax advantage for sustainable alternatives, such as the production of seaweed as biogas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that switching from major users to foreign gas costs millions of euros and does not contribute to the necessary sustainability of industry;]] [[calls on the Government to make clear the opportunities that make (individual) large users more sustainable, without disrupting the speed and focus of the journey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-488]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Raan, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Beckerman and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-489]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u314	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u315	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u316	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A question remained from the first term, namely the reason why the NAM initiated the escalation consultation. I would like to hear an answer to that in the second term. We have never looked at it in this debate. The Minister has again explained why he has reached his decision, but he himself is responsible as a minister for getting out with the region. The PvdA believes that the people, the mayors, the aldermen, the 56 group chairmen who represent the people in the region, have a point when they say: a deal is a deal. I do not think that the Minister has made it convincing why he is right on his side, even though sometimes he is useful in word choices and I do not know what. In the end, I think it will mean that this debate, however sad it is, has not made any progress. The Groningers have all come here and go home disappointed. The Minister can count on that, because he must continue with confidence in the region, he must provide the security that people do not have now, and he must ensure that Groningen is safe again. So that's what I'm charging the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion for a resolution, the motion for a resolution by Mr Groningen. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that financial arrangements with the Empire are currently being negotiated with Shell and Exxon, which are laid down in a broad agreement;]] [[Whereas large financial flows and long-term legal liabilities are at stake, such as the distribution of gas extraction benefits, damage recovery, reinforcement and compensation in Groningen;]] [[invites the Government to sign the agreements in the main agreement only after the House of Representatives has given its assent,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Nijboer, Mr Beckerman, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Van Raan, Mr Sazias and Mr Kops.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-490]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u317	Mr President, thank you. I'll just start the motion right away and have a few remaining questions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that thousands of Groningen families have been in uncertainty over the strengthening of their homes for years;]] [[Whereas the phasing out of gas extraction is likely to lead to a different safety risk, but there will still be earthquakes and mining damage in the next few years;]] [[Whereas, based on investigations by SodM, KNMI, TNO and NEN, the Mining Council will provide an opinion within a few weeks on the development of seismicity and safety risks appropriate to a faster reduction in gas extraction levels;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Mining Council, in its opinion, to pay particular attention to the significance of the findings for the homes already inspected, but whose residents have not yet received reinforcement advice (batches 2 and 3, i.e. 1,588 and 1,581), to clarify in the first week of July, and, on the basis of this opinion, to come forward with a generous reinforcement approach with the directors this summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Jetten and Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-491]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u318	No, but I see people standing by the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u319	Yeah, me too. But I thought it might be good...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u320	I thought they might want to ask questions about the motion, so we might do it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u321	You guys want to ask me about the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u322	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u323	I call Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u324	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand the intention, but I still want to ask a question about its meaning. It is quite a fundamental request that the Mining Council should look at all the decisions that have already been taken and must do so in such a crucial opinion that is due on 1 July. How exactly am I supposed to understand that? I also think the Minister wants to know. It must also be realistic, otherwise we will create unnecessary expectations again. I would like to avoid that, although I might share the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u325	If that's your concern, perhaps the Minister will be able to take it away. I just want clarity and with that I want certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u326	I think that's a good ambition from the CDA. I was just being asked about industry and so on. I would also like to put the mirror question to Mrs Mulder when it comes to safety. It is not just about the safety of the here and now, but also about the safety of it later and elsewhere. The longer we spend fossil fuels, the more that's in danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u327	What's your question, Mr. Van Raan?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u328	The question is whether Mrs Mulder of the CDA agrees with us that the solution that is now being chosen lies mainly in one fossil gas for another fossil gas and that it does not, at first sight, contribute to this longer-term security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u329	This is simply a short-term solution to achieve safety for the Groningers. At the moment when we are not so down and there is once a heavy winter, it is important that we can use this power station. So yes, it's a big investment for a temporary measure. It does offer security to the Groningers, and so the CDA chooses to invest money in it, because that is what we think is important. This will also guarantee long-term safety for the Groningen people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u330	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u331	Sometimes you have to take these steps. It would have been nice if the Party for Animals could have made that choice today. I have to say that they do not. That's what worries me about safety. Mr. Chairman. Then the nitrogen factory. I told the Minister that it is wonderful that this acceleration is in all these measures and asked him if he himself could speed up and facilitate that process even further. I would like an answer to that. There is now that amendment to the Mining Act. Mrs Beckerman had already tabled a motion on this matter. I haven't had the opportunity to take it all the way to me yet, but does it say that we are going to put the NAM at a distance at the reinforcements? If that is not the case, is the Minister prepared to see if he can change the law on that and settle it already? Is that an option? I prefer to have the NAM as soon as possible legally just out of here, just like we do at the damage settlement. So we'll get out at the backup, too. I think I'm gonna take my chance, because the minister is here now. If we could settle this with each other right now, it'd be worth a sweet thing to me. The sooner they get out, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u332	Yes, thank you. Finally, Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u333	Mr. Chairman. The NAM will pay at all times. Since the mining obligation is now with the Minister, I have questions about it. If you ask me if I want to turn on the crane and I have to do so because you are going to do so, then you are responsible and I am not, because you are going to do so. I really have questions about whether it is legally sustainable to have the NAM paid, while the cabinet is liable. That's my question. I would also like to repeat that 50PLUS believes that regardless of the speed of stopping gas extraction, the pace of rebuilding and strengthening should be given priority. And whether 50PLUS is confident that it will work out with the relations in Groningen? We will follow that very critically. I don't have a motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u334	Thank you, Mrs Sazias. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. 17 motions have been tabled. Ten minutes? Then I'll suspend until about 8:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u335	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u336	Mr President, I thought it was orderly to answer the questions first. For a moment there seemed to be a lack of clarity as to what my unsaved proposal was but a commitment. It was about the 1,588 homes. I would just like to make it very clear that this is about what can be made possible on top of safety, because safety must be regulated anyway. There can be no doubt about that. The commitment concerns the state resources to be identified with the region. I have made two concrete commitments on top, which are not standard but specifically aimed at these houses and residents. All this is meant to deliver on the ambitions at the top of safety. From the Empire BZK will take the lead. We need the region very much and also the corporations and owners. The aim is then to make these resources complementary and to allow each other to do the work. The appeal you have made to me is to approach the region on this and to look at it with them, but I will come to that in a moment. Then they asked what the NAM's need was to talk about it. I should not say more about this than the report says, but I do so in this case. The NAM had concerns about the reinforcement operation, particularly in the areas of pace and security; pace and security will be related.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u337	I actually want you to finish your sentence before Mr Nijboer gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u338	Okay, then the second... the nitrogen plant. How can I speed it up? That is where Mrs Mulder underestimates me, because if I could have speeded it up, I would have written it down sooner, because we are so aggressive. It is already covered by the National Coordination Regulation. It's already a tight timetable. I will have to report to this Chamber whether I am still on schedule or whether I see any further acceleration options. But this is basically the path we've set sail to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u339	Mr Nijboer, brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u340	Yeah, a question about the NAM. So it has said: we want to scale up, it is an escalation model and we want to talk to the National Coordinator and the top of the civil service because of the pace and security of the reinforcement operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u341	That's what I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u342	What exactly does that mean? Did the NAM find that too much tempo was being made, or did she think that too much housing had to be paid for during the reinforcement operation? What was behind that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u343	The NAM has a duty of care as an operator for safety. If she believes that safety cannot be achieved, then the NAM and the underlying shareholders are also at risk there. It's an objection I have in a different way. But I could imagine that. This is what I get and what I can say about it. I haven't been in the conversation, nor have I been vividly involved in the cause of it. This is what I can give you, and I can imagine a great deal of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u344	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u345	Yes, the minister wasn't there, but his senior officials are there and the National Coordinator is also just under the minister. I would like to know what the impact of the NAM on the reinforcement operation, at the pace and the reinforcements, what her views were on this, whether that might have led to delays or less houses being strengthened at that time, because there was quite a bit of time between the escalation of requests at the beginning of March, and the meeting on 28 May. I think we as Parliament should simply know that, because it is about public interest and security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u346	You may ask anything about the public interest, but this is a private party asking for an interview under an agreed procedure. There they are not obliged to allow me to make communications about this. I understand that in this case I can say something about this, namely that they wanted to move both safety and speed upwards. Mr. Chairman. When is it legally regulated that the NAM goes out of the system? The final blow is, of course, reinforced by a bill. I hope that, with the region, we will very quickly identify the governance and the organisation of a reinforcement operation, so that we can anchor it in a legislative proposal. A first step is the bill that has recently been before the Chamber, but that is actually not a sufficient step. The real blow comes to the actual arrangement of the whole. Then there is Mrs Sazias' question. That's a really good legal question; I'm going to study her resume. She rightly says: how can it be, you are liable if you have done something naughty or something unlawful against someone; if you are not on the crane yourself, how can you be held liable for that? That's in itself the cramp we're in. Article 77 of the Civil Code holds you liable. Article 178 says you won't be if it's not done by you. In the bill "never more than needed" we have chosen a kind of provisional construction. In Article 52f of the bill, that Article 178 is repealed. That means you didn't do it, but you're still financially responsible. That is, of course, not a very sustainable construction, and that is why we need to deal with it differently in the future, and we need to separate the liability and payment obligations from each other, so that they are seen separately and there is no conflict with the concept of liability. That's how it's gonna go. For that, this is just an intermediate step. Mrs. Sazias, I think, puts the finger on the sore spot that there's some cramp here. It's valid, but it's not pretty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u347	I understand that's what you want, which makes sense to me. But is it legally feasible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u348	This is legally sustainable but not beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u349	Then it got quiet. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u350	It's a very fair question. Then there's the motions. On the first motion, in part No. 475, with Mr Van der Lee as the main carrier, we have had it. That brings me to judgment: dissuaded. This is not the case with the second, in part No. 476; I had to think about that. It is a general policy that the government wants to keep the agreements with the region. I have described that I see no other option than the procedure that has been jointly designed, whether you want to call it agreements with the region or not. We have jointly designed a procedure to deal with this. I chose a particular batch for that. In any other case, it would have been an infringement of the procedure, but it is necessary. That's not where that happened. I would first of all like to leave this motion to the Court's opinion, because it is the general line, but since it is indeed Mr Van der Lee who has to do with this particular point, I do not advise her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u351	I didn't file two motions for nothing. The first one is about the batch and the other one is about preventing something like this from happening again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u352	Well, the latter has heard Mr Van der Lee in the debate. When gas extraction is stopped once every 55 years, I sometimes feel forced to break into a procedure, but otherwise I do not intend to keep agreements with the region. Of course, that is not what we usually do, and Mr Van der Lee knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u353	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u354	Then the minister can give "judge chamber"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u355	I certainly have the impression that Mr Van der Lee is referring to this particular operative part with regard to that particular decision. That's why I have to discourage the motion. I have sufficiently outlined the general approach. What in the motion-Beckerman c.s. in piece No. 477 is requested on the amendment of the law is also complicated. The bill has been amended and has an operationalisation. You can also find that in the pieces. But perhaps we should just look at this in the course of the debate and I could ask Mrs Beckerman to hold this motion. Then we can have the discussion at a time that is also widely held here. The motion Beckerman c.s. in piece No. 478 is about making it public. I voted in favour of maximum transparency on the upcoming gas contract. I have said that there will also be passages that I unfortunately cannot release. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u356	I would like to comment on the motion on part No. 477. The Minister asks the petitioners to hold the motion. We can do it till Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u357	I understood it was a yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u358	I don't know. I will look at Mrs Beckerman, or at the Minister if the motion is not stopped. Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u359	I didn't think it was appropriate to do that without the co-subsidiaries, so I nodded moderately. I'm gonna go talk to you and you'll hear about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u360	But should the motion be put to the vote, what is your opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u361	Otherwise, I would advise against the motion, but the appeal to speak on this matter is perfectly logical, so I do not see why I should now come to a standstill if we can also hold the motion. The judgment on the Jetten c.s. motion. in piece No. 479 I leave to the Chamber. I promised. The movement-Kops in part No. 480 is on the issue of strengthening now. We've had enough discussion about that. Very soon after 1 July, I would like to make that clear, but I do not recommend this motion. The same applies to the Kops motion in part No. 481. We have also discussed this very often. I'd advise against that motion, too. Then the movement-Kops in part No. 482. The system is different. Mr Kops wants a democratically elected...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u362	Just for the clarity. Is Mr Kops' motion in part No. 480 treatment yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u363	I didn't recommend that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u364	And the motion in part No. 479 by Mr Jetten?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u365	Mr Jetten's motion for a resolution 479? Oh, dear. I left the verdict on that motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u366	Please continue. Now I've got it in a row.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u367	Then we're at the Kops-movement on piece number. 482. No, I don't think it's wise to have a democratically elected NCG. Drivers are responsible here and directors are democratically controlled. This is about an executive official on the payroll of the Empire. I don't think this is appropriate. I advise against this motion. The judgment on the Yesilgöz-Zegerius c.s. motion in piece No. 483 I leave to the Chamber. The same applies to the motion-Dik-Faber c.s. in piece No. 484 on the Meijdam norm. I like that one very much. The Van Raan/Wassenberg motion in part No. 485 is about the strict application of that principle. I think the order that Mr Van Raan keeps is very logical at the level of abstraction, but it is also just about companies and entrepreneurs. It remains, of course, a trade-off that includes broader issues such as costs and phasing. I cannot accept this motion in these general words, and I therefore advise against it. Then the motion-Van Raan c.s. in piece No. 486. This is also a broader issue. It says "repeal one-sidedly," but maybe there's some form of common governance or something, and then you don't say anything. I would suggest to the proposers that they hold this motion until we deal with the new establishment of the reinforcement operation. That will also be enforced by law and then we can see what this means. Maybe there's nothing to say at all, because then we're gonna run this together. Then the motion-Van Raan c.s. in piece No. 487. That goes along with the whole climate agreement, but I cannot embrace the fence that is being placed here. I therefore advise against this motion. The same applies to the Van Raan c.s motion. in piece No. 488, in which a measure is proposed in anticipation of almost everything. Then the motion-Van Raan c.s. in piece No. 489. If this doesn't mean that I have to send a report to the House of Representatives per major consumer, I see this motion as a support for policy and I understand what it says here. I should therefore like to leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u368	Before you move on Mr Nijboer's motion, there is an interruption by Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u369	Thanks for the appreciation. If I have listened to it correctly, at the motion is in part no. 485 the Minister's throat that the word "strings" is in it. Of course, I could get rid of that. I wonder if the appreciation will be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u370	What motion are we talking about? Sorry. I'll take a look at Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u371	Number 485.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u372	Number 485.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u373	The Van Raan/Wassenberg motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u374	It is, once again, very prudent to look from now on. Gas and fossil are basically the last option. That means it can be done, but first we look at the other possibilities. So I can remove the word "string."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u375	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u376	If we take away the word "string" it becomes: ask the government to apply the principle of a, b, c in the phasing-out scenarios. Besides, you still don't have that broader consideration. Even leaving out the word "string" I don't see the broader consideration, so I keep the judgment the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u377	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u378	Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u379	Thank you. Then we'll add "the general framework," won't we? Again, the point is that we establish a principle. If you define a principle, you can also deviate from it. That makes sense to us, not to the Minister. If we add that, I wonder what's against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u380	Well, then I want to see the exact text and I want to be able to philosophize about it. Then I don't have the judgment now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u381	Good. Then proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u382	The motion in part No. 490 belongs to Mr Nijboer. I do not think that is a sustainable way of acting. It's the State that matches private parties. I'll inform the room about that. We have a debate on that. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u383	This simply affects directly the budget right of the Chamber. This could have enormous budgetary consequences: the gas revenues over the next ten years, the responsibilities and the liabilities that Mrs Sazias had asked a very good question about. Surely the Minister cannot sign a deal with Shell and Exxon, which involves many billions, where the government also has a part of the responsibility and in which a division is made, without Parliament giving its approval in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u384	Well, if that fits into the budget, it can. It's the state negotiating with private parties. Any negotiation with private parties can have budgetary consequences. You, as the government's auditor, should debate this, and if necessary you can give an opinion on it in all kinds of ways at your disposal. But I am not going to present the results of the negotiations with the oil companies to the Chamber in advance. No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u385	Well, I think that's really weird. I think it's really weird. It's about many billions. There is still more than 50 billion in question yesterday as it was said that this is 70 to 80 billion in the ground. That needs to be split up. I have seen them quite well in the budget of Economic Affairs or in the budget of Finance, and I do not know them very well in any post from which such an agreement could be financed. So yes, I think Parliament should do that. I will also refer this to the Minister of Finance. I have already done that, by the way, but I will continue to do so. But I also think that the Chamber should not allow this to happen. We do have the right to budget as a chamber. That was not assigned to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u386	It's budget law, but it's not contract law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u387	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u388	About the motion-Agnes Mulder c.s. in piece No. 491 has been widely spoken. This one I'm judging Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u389	Thank you. Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u390	The last motion went a little too fast anyway, because I thought it was rather a substantial addition to the assignment that is already there for the scientists. I really wonder if that is feasible within the time limit you have given them, namely to do all that on 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u391	The urgency of clarity is reported here, not in a tone higher than that of the Chamber itself. Well, that's very clear. There is room for the way in which. The motion asks the government "to ask the Mining Council in its opinion to pay particular attention to..." In my view, that gives the Mines Council room for clarity in a way that is appropriate to it. It's a request to ask. I can't imagine the Mining Council being painted in the corner with this. It is a complicated task, but I keep saying that it is even more complicated for drivers, as was the case in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u392	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-07-tweedekamer-17.u393	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Minister and Members of Parliament and, in particular, the people of Groningen. I think a lot of the people are already on the bus, back home. I also thank the staff.
