ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u1	Welcome to the Minister. First, I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have had a nice debate on working pressure and group size. I'd like to make a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that teachers have a significant influence on the quality of education and the size of their classes;]] [[Whereas the collective agreement provides for the participation council to agree to the formation plan, which explains the relationship between the number of pupils and teachers per school;]] [[whereas an advisory right will weaken this collective agreement article and thus the position of staff;]] [[calls on the government to give the employee participation council's right to vote in favour of the group size policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-303]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u3	Then we also asked in the consultation a few questions about professional teachers and to what extent they can contribute to reducing the workload. That's what the next motion for a resolution is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that children are moving less and less well and that motor skills are decreasing;]] [[noting that vocational teachers learn to move more freely;]] [[noting that the use of a professional teacher contributes to reducing the working pressure of group teachers;]] [[noting that the ambitions set in the past in the sectoral agreement on the minimum number of gym lessons have not been achieved;]] [[calls on the Government to agree, together with the field of education, on movement education for all pupils and to link the commitment of vocational teachers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-304]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u4	On several occasions, we have made comments about students who do training in the health sector and then, for example, want to become teachers. They pay the high tuition fees and are often prevented from taking that course. We have twice tabled a motion on this subject and twice that motion has been dissuaded by Minister Van Engelshoven. The VVD did not agree to this either. Two days ago, in the debate on tuition fees, we suddenly heard that the VVD now also finds this a problem. We also heard that the Minister indicated that she wanted to do something about this. So we are very curious about how this goes on. We're looking forward to the investigation. I hope that the next time we table a motion on this, we will be able to count on the support of a majority in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u5	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. Mr Rog has also applied, but I do not see him. Mr. Heerema has another question for Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u6	The last motion you tabled concerns movement education. It is very clear to me that Mr Slob, our minister, has already made a commitment to the VVD on this. So I was wondering why you're tabling a motion on something on which I've already received a commitment from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u7	I don't think that's right. I honestly don't. Then I am very curious to know exactly what commitment that has been.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u8	That's what we're gonna hear from the minister. Can the Minister respond immediately, or is he still waiting for the motions? Minister Slob, you're saying you can get started. If you'd like to do that, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u9	I would like to receive the precise texts of the motions, but the subjects are not unknown to me. Indeed, I repeat, Mrs Westerveld, it was a nice debate. Among other things, we talked about the normalization of the group size. I indicated at that time that I did not intend to take care of that. However, I have shared my intention with the Chamber that I would like to make the group size policy part of Mr. That is the intention I have expressed. I have also indicated that, when the law comes to the Chamber, we want to continue to debate it with the Chamber. Mrs Westerveld is going over that now. I'm sorry about that. The debate could therefore be wide-ranging. But, of course, that's her right. In her motion, however, there is a false assumption, a false consideration. It states that the right of advice will weaken the collective agreement article and thus the position of the staff. It is true that the collective agreement mentions the right of assent, but that is simply also legally enshrined in the Law on participation in schools. This concerns the right of consent of the mr's staff when determining or changing the composition of the formation. That's different than talking about group size. The formation plan regulates a great deal: the deployment and size of the teaching staff, the number of jobs per salary scale, thus bringing back the whole discussion about the function mix, developments and outflow, additional budget for support staff, possible temporary and structural functions. It also regulates the relationship between the number of pupils and the number of teachers per school, per BRIN number, which we have also discussed in general consultation. That's what's in there. That's different from group size. There can also be a choice in a school for more hands in the classroom or for unit education. We have also discussed this in general consultation. This involves larger groups or a lower ratio between the number of pupils and the number of teachers. In view of the fact that the SP indicated that she felt that the teacher-student ratio should be at 29, I shared with the Chamber that that ratio is actually 18.4 based on the figures we have. So that is a lot lower than what the SP considers to be the desired situation. With the changes I now intend to make in relation to: to share with you and to discuss further, that right of consent of the staff member on the formation plan is therefore not undermined or affected. What we are doing is even extending it to include that right of assent or that right of advice that I intend to introduce...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u10	I apologise for interrupting you, but I also chaired the debate on the subject. Your explanation is clear to Members, so I would like to ask what your opinion is on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u11	The debate did not discuss the collective agreement and the right of assent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u12	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u13	That's why I'm devoting a few words to that. There is a misunderstanding, and I regret that, because it will create an image that is not correct. What we intend to do, and that will come back to the Chamber in due course, and I want to have the debate in full width, is to supplement that right of assent that they now have on the formation plan. So it's not an attack. I have already indicated that I will abstain on a motion when it comes, because I want to have that discussion in an orderly manner at a later date. To be honest, I regret that it is now happening in this way, but it is the right of the Chamber, of course, to table motions, so I am not getting that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u14	The Westerveld motion in part No. 303 is not recommended. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u15	I have a question about the Minister's explanation. He states that the right of advice he wishes to give does not undermine the ability to justify what is stated in the formation plan about the relationship between the number of teachers and pupils per school. If we have to take responsibility for this now and then we are going to lay down in the law that there must be an advisory right for both parents and staff, then we cannot say that this does not undermine it. In other words, the law is more direct than what we agree on in the collective agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u16	That right of consent to the establishment or amendment of the formation plan is already provided for in the law. That just stays there. I have no intention of changing that. The conversations and the final decision on group size are not included. What I'm doing in addition now is putting parents and teachers in a position to give advice on those plans. So it's a supplement and not an attack. We're not getting that right. That is indeed in the collective agreement, but it is enshrined in the law and this is an addition. My opinion is, moreover, unchanged. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u17	Mrs Westerveld, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u18	In the formation plan, the ratio between the number of pupils and teachers per school is justified. The request in the motion to the government is to give the staff member the right to consent to the group size policy. In other words, as far as I am concerned, this is a clarification of what has already been said about the formation plan. The minister says he gives advice. I still don't understand why that right of consent wouldn't be a violation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u19	I'm gonna try one more time. That formation plan and the relationship between the number of students and teachers is really different from that you are talking about the number of students who are housed in a classroom. This concerns the teacher-student ratio that is present within a school. I've indicated that it's at 18.4. We have also communicated with the Chamber about the average group size. It's at 23.1. It's gonna be a bit of a complicated discussion, but this is really additional, believe me. It's also regulated by the law. It seems that this is not the right time and the place to have this kind of discussion at a VAO. When the law comes, let's have a more extensive discussion. Then we'll do more justice to the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u20	Mrs Westerveld, I agree. This debate is coming back a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u21	I had another question about that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u22	That debate is about to come. Unfortunately, you have now been given "dissuade" as an opinion on your motion, but this is reflected in the debate. Then the motion Westerveld/Kwint in part No. 304.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u23	It's about movement education. Mr Heerema is right that we have already discussed this extensively at another time, and in a different context, in particular because of the regular interventions by the VVD on this subject. We are in the process of revising the sectoral agreements, which include movement education. I'll report back to the Chamber in due course. The discussion in the general consultation was about the workload and the freedom we give schools to make their own choices. This may indeed mean choosing physical education for professional teachers. That's what we're gonna wait and see. Now it's time for the schools to move on. I do not think it would be wise to table motions which now put pressure on that process from above.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u24	So you're dissuading this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u25	I therefore also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u26	Thank you. Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u27	Now I am confused, because the VVD was talking about a commitment, but the minister actually says that there is no one and that it is up to the schools themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u28	No, this is two more things. You notice that, when topics and different discussions get mixed up, there can be some fog. In general consultation we discussed the work pressure agreement. It is indeed up to the schools themselves to decide what they are using the money for, if, of course, it is only about reducing the workload. This could mean choosing to appoint professional teachers for physical education. I know a number of people, including in this Chamber, who would like that very much. But that's up to them. The other discussion concerns the fact that we believe that the schools should also give the number of hours. We agree on this in sectoral agreements. Of course, we will continue to talk about this, because we notice that the practice is not quite as we agreed on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u29	Mr. Kwint, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u30	Then you do not advise against this motion because it concerns a previous commitment; then you advise against this motion because you do not think it is desirable that it be adopted from The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u31	It's both. That is not good in the process that we have been so careful with each other. And two topics, or two discussions, are confused here, which can be confusing. I don't think we should.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u32	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-11.u33	I'm suspending the meeting for six minutes. We're going to vote at 4:40.
