ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the legislative proposal Revocation of the Advisory referendum Act, Section 34854. I would like to welcome the Minister in trade union K, the people in the public gallery and the MPs. Tonight the second term of office will be on the agenda. Before I give the floor to Mr Van Raak, I would like to say that I am very pleased with the letter that the Minister sent to the Chamber today in response to Mr Van Raak's request for work, confirming the previous agreements made with the Cabinet, namely that the Chamber is informed rather than the press.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u2	I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u3	Mr. Chairman. What's going on here? What's going on here? Today, for the first time in our history, a democratic right is being abolished, without citizens being allowed to say anything about it. The referendum goes into the trash can because the government wants it to. But the referendum does not belong to the government, it belongs to the voters. It didn't bring what we expected. Yeah, who? The government. The referendum is not desirable, because it makes sense not to hold a referendum on the referendum. And why is it logical not to hold a referendum on the referendum? Because that's what the government wants. With all due respect, that's not reasoning. That's a circular reasoning. That's bullshit. I also know that the Minister is not here for her pleasure. She needs to do a job that Mark Rutte and Alexander Pechtold came up with. But I do think the Minister should come up with a story, even if it is in committee. Last week's story is a circular argument. It doesn't add up. So I'm asking the Minister to start over. Whatever I'm asking for is an apology. Last week we asked for additional information from the Council of State. We've been waiting a long time for that. It didn't come Friday. It didn't come on weekends. It didn't come Monday. Actually, today didn't come either. Until I heard journalists had it this afternoon. I then walked to the chairman of the VVD, and it was only when I said that journalists had it that we got it shortly afterwards. I want to know how that happened. I also know that spindoctors are constantly working on the media. I also found it remarkable to read all kinds of articles on the internet, even though I couldn't have read the advice yet. I want to know from the Minister: whose decision is that? Who decides at the Ministry to report cases to the press rather than to the Chamber? Then there is the content of the further advice from the Council of State that we asked for. That's actually the same as the earlier advice. The Council of State says that the construction that has been devised, the legal trick that has been devised not to be able to present this referendum to the people, in order to make it non-referendable, is effective in the legal sense. In other words, the government gets away with it, according to the Council of State. By the way, there are a lot of other state lawyers who say that it is absolutely not the case, that it is legal magic. How does the Minister explain this contradiction? What I see in particular is that the Council of State is pushing out the hot potato here in this Chamber, saying that it is mainly a political question whether we want a referendum on the referendum. That question is now before us. There have already been many state lawyers, there have been many politicians who have all said: you cannot abolish a democratic right without presenting it to the people. I have also heard many D66s say it: founding fathers of D66, like Jan Terlouw, or the young people of D66, the Young Democrats. In fact, almost everyone outside this Chamber thinks that it is weird, crazy, illogical and indecent to abolish a democratic right without people being allowed to say anything about it. And if anything shows the division in this country, it is the action of the government. If something is going to feed the distrust of people in politics, it is the action of this government. That is where the Minister asks us to give our agreement. No, of course not. The question before us tonight is the referendum. But also the question: who owns this country? Whose democracy is ours? What interests are served here? Not the ordinary people's, not the people's. I don't know if we're gonna make it. It could be that a democratic right could be abolished with one seat difference, of which an overwhelming majority of the people say they want it. It may be that a referendum on the repeal law will be made impossible tonight with one seat difference, while outside this Chamber everyone feels that this is indecent and contrary to democratic principles. 'Cause that makes it clear, too. I hope that in the Senate, across the street, the legal strut and legal magic can be seriously discussed. I also very much hope that people will make their voices heard and say on 21 March: "I am not voting for parties that are not in favour of our democracy, not the VVD, or VV. Not on the CDA, or call me CA. Not on D66, say 66. But to parties that do respect democracy." And there's another referendum! No matter how hard government parties shout that you can go down the tree, that you can vote whatever you want, but that they won't care: don't let that happen! Democracy doesn't start in this room, it starts outside. It doesn't start with the MPs, it starts with the voters. Democracy always starts with saying no. People can say no and I make that appeal to people: let them hear you, do not take this, do not let this happen!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u4	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Martin Bosma on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u5	Mr. Chairman. What a vile, embarrassing display in this minister's first term. What a total disenchantment, so embarrassing, so painful! One would expect that the slaughter of the only administrative renewal since Thorbecke in 1848 would be accompanied by some honor and some decorum. But we see a painful scene of a minister who has no arguments and no text. She says that the Advisory referendum Act is not working properly. That is the balance sheet after a single referendum. The referendum did not meet the expectations, she says. Then who are these expectations with, I asked Thursday night. The Minister's answer was: well, with the four coalition parties in the Chamber. Okay. We cannot hold a referendum on the referendum. That is, the Minister says, inherent logic. Again without even the slightest justification. She arrives with an investigation, essentially a 2016 survey of the Ukraine referendum. People indicated that they felt that the government should listen to the results. The Minister says that it shows that the instrument is not working properly. So if you think the government should listen, that is explained by Ollongren as support for a binding referendum and thus as opposition to a consultative referendum. You're gonna have to step on it. And since when is the government following surveys to judge laws? Anyone who re-reads that national electoral survey will see that citizens were guided by the main issue in their vote: is it good for the Netherlands and is it good for Ukraine? No protest vote, says Radboud University. One of the authors is Professor Van der Meer, who, in a letter sent by eighteen scientists in NRC, warns about the consequences of abolishing the referendum on our democracy. It's all snappy, soon. A citizen who wants a rooftop chapel and whose application is rejected receives a better motivation than this piece of shit that was flanked up in the afternoon. This afternoon, the Council of State delivered an opinion. "Legally effective" they call it. I really do not know what that means, but it does make one thing clear, namely that this is a political issue. So it's politics. A political decision has to be made. The Council of State is contradicted by a lot of state law scholars. This minister thinks that state law is something that the government should protect against the citizen rather than the other way around. This Swedish minister, who obtained her course in state law at IKEA University, shows just as much depth as the instructions for use of the BILLY cabinets. We're just reading goals. The aim is clear and some paragraphs are produced; that is called a law. And I stand by it: the old law, the law advisory referendum, is just valid. The minister has to enforce the law. That is her constitutional task. That law states: you can request a referendum on any law. In what country do we live that a MP should beg that a servant of the Crown, a minister, should implement the law and respect the Constitution? There are two amendments, which may be supported by the entire opposition. A parliamentary unique. One was brought in by the Party of State Law Purity, the SGP. The Minister cannot just waltz over these two amendments. It is also a signal to the First Chamber, which finally likes to oversee state law. Perhaps there are D66s out there who know why Van Mierlo started that party again. D66 is now the party that fights against the ideals for which it was founded. You're not making it up. D66 is ideally the party of the elites of the Netherlands, the senior officials, the art bobos, the top of the universities, the technocrats, the consultants, and the proverbial D66 judges. And those elites are fed up with the people. They see the citizens as stupid tockies, inclined to all evil, who, if you don't watch out, vote for Brexit, Trump and Wilders, and who are actually only capable of paying taxes and giving up their organs. This repeal law is a major motion of censure by the elites against the people. D66 was set up to dig canals, as Van Mierlo said. The elite now only dig a moat, with a wall Trump is jealous of. Behind that are the above us. They call themselves cosmopolites, but from their penthouse they look down like scared provincials. Yesterday, a man should have been 70 years old, Professor Fortuyn. He talked about the orphan society. That analysis is like a house. The elites are setting us up. I keep hearing from connection, and I keep hearing the word "together." After the Fortuy Revolution, I kept hearing talk about the fact that the citizens would now really be listened to. In practice, it really only means one thing: people, shut up! Van Mierlo said that we must make a revolution before it breaks out, a silent revolution that digs channels from the citizens and their frustrations to the centers of power. Those who do not want Van Mierlo's silent revolution close their eyes to the chance of a noisy revolution. Whoever builds a political system of shock concrete, armed shock concrete, implies that dynamite is the only way to change things. Hayforks and guillotines, that's the last thing we should want. But the fact that fire is being played with, let's be clear. Mr. Chairman. The big finger, which the Minister is showing to the citizen today, cannot have escaped anyone's attention. The young lady can undoubtedly receive pats on the back in the Concertgebouw and on the canal grounds. But Van Mierlo's warning of his silent revolution remains standing. But the problem, sir, remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u6	Thank you, Mr. Bosma. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was an exciting first term, and I don't mean that at all positive. As Mr Bosma said, we are carrying direct democracy to the grave. I agree with him. What an embarrassment for our democracy and for our Chamber. Madam President. The First Chamber is important, the Second Chamber is important, but the living room is most important. This minister and the coalition parties say to the people in the living room: shut up. But people at home aren't crazy. They understand very well what is happening, including the D66 voters. Maurice de Dog's poll last Sunday says a lot: D66 loses two more seats and takes the coalition parties to a new low of only 61 seats. During the first term, the D66 spokesperson showed no idea what our dual system means. He called the coalition agreement "a plan under which the group's signature is also included," but the whole story is plain, ordinary electoral deception, 180 degrees in relation to the electoral program. Is that the D66 implementation of administrative renewal: the consultative referendum away, the dual system away and also vulgar, flat electoral deception? The feeling of bacon and beans I talked about in the first term has only increased. This whole repeal law has already been a blemish on our democracy, but now it has been a blasphemy on our position as legislator and even on the position of the Council of State. This minister does damage to the care with which we make the laws in the Netherlands. That is a bad thing, and all because this minister does not bring up the patience and decency to evaluate the consultative referendum, waiting for the opinion of the state committee and making the repeal law referendable, because the cabinet is afraid of the opinion of the electorate. Then you wonder what's behind that. My group has a great deal of respect for the Council of State, but that does not mean that we should take our task and our procedures seriously. If the advice has not been published, a mistake has been made. A mistake in the procedure means it has to be repeated. I would like to table a motion on this with Mr Baudet. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas legislation requires careful procedures and those procedures have been laid down and must be complied with;]] [[Whereas the formal procedure for repealing the Advisory referendum Act has not been completed in its entirety, specifically with regard to the requirements of Article 26 (2);]] [[calls on the Government to repeal the Bill of Repeal Law on Advisory referendum and to go through the procedure again,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol, Mr Baudet, Mr Arissen, Mr Kuzu, Mr Özütok, Mr Kuik, Mr Van Raak, Mr Martin Bosma and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34854-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u8	I would like, on behalf of the Animal Party, to submit this motion, if possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u9	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, If there are other colleagues, from any party...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u10	Put me in there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u11	Fantastic. Well, look at this!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u12	The signature of the motion will be adjusted equally. You must not show your disapproval or your approval; I say that to the people in the public gallery. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As much as we appreciate the current opinion of the Council of State, we still have a pressing question. How can you guarantee the independence of the Council of State to the utmost, so that it is above any doubt of involvement? Of course, a contradictory opinion raises doubts. We stress here that we follow the Council of State in its opinion that a new law can replace an old law. After all, that's the whole idea of making laws: you want to do something different. Legally, then, it may be true that the repeal law does not have to be referendable, but as far as 50PLUS is concerned, that is certainly not politically-administratively. It is inappropriate administration to declare laws that have already been declared referendable by the same legislator and not by a previous one, then not to declare referendable. It's a transitional rule that pisses my Aunt Annie off. Back to the Council of State: the independent position must be beyond any doubt, but if you look at the current composition, you will see that at least six members have had an active political career. 50PLUS believes that a politician who has played an active role should be shown to be above party political interests. Well, that's the least of it. The Council of State Act already mentions four incompatibilitys for the office of Vice-President and member. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, there should be one more rule: being a member of the Council of State is also incompatible with party political interests. There is also a motion for a resolution on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Council of State has an entirely independent position vis-à-vis political party interests in order to be able to advise independently on legislative proposals;]] [[Whereas Article 5 (1) of the Council of State Act lays down different incompatibilitys for the post of Vice-President or member;]] [[Whereas opinions of the Council of State should be above all possible political involvement;]] [[calls on the Government to include safeguards in the law aimed at ensuring that the Vice-President and the Members are above party political interests,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34854-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u14	Finally, on the state committee's reflection on parliamentary system. I would like us to have the patience and decency to wait for the final report, if necessary expedited. That's why my third and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the State Committee on the Reconciliation of Parliamentary System has asked the Government to advise it on the future stability of the parliamentary system;]] [[Whereas, as a result of the institutional decision, the State Committee considers that the Dutch citizen aspires to be more involved in policy and politics;]] [[Whereas, in its report of 25 October last, the State Commission explicitly identified the consultative referendum as a possible bridge to the political-citizen gap;]] [[calls on the Government to return the repeal of the Advisory referendum Act to the Chamber only after the State Commission has completed its mandate and after the Parliament has debated the final report,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34854-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u15	Then thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u16	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u17	Mr. Chairman. This has been a disappointing debate, because the arguments for repealing the Advisory referendum Act do not correspond to the wishes of society to have more participation in legislation. Nor does the procedure for repealing the law deserve, to say the least, a price of beauty. Everything had to be rushed through the Chamber, and even the formal procedure to publish a law through the Staatscourant was ignored, as Mr Baudet rightly pointed out last week. In addition, this law provides that the repeal law is not referendable, without a sound substantive and procedural basis. If even the SGP, as the main opponent of the referendum, is extremely critical of this, then the Minister must be extra critical. This is not the way to deal with legislative proposals. I ask the Minister once again to reflect on this. Does it agree with the opposition as a whole that a careful legislative process is being carried out here? To ask a rhetorical question: how does she expect the First Chamber to respond to this trial? What about society? People see that a means they value is being taken away from them and then again in a way that has nothing to do with careful legislation. I also fully endorse what Mr Van Raak said when it comes to informing the Chamber. Apparently it is important to inform journalists before the Chamber. The Minister writes that it should not happen to inform the press sooner. How is the Minister going to make sure this doesn't happen again? I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u18	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u19	Thank you, Mr President. I have a very cold, so I'm gonna have to take a sip of water once in a while. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Council of State for providing such short-term information with a detailed explanation of its opinion. In doing so, the Council of State has once again confirmed to me that the reference to this repeal law is a political question and not a legal one. Fortunately, this evening, the difference between the legal and political questions is better kept apart than during the first period last week. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister, who, in her reply last week, explained calmly and clearly why the cabinet had chosen to withdraw the Advisory referendum Act. That's a choice that D66 supports. I explained this in detail last week. In our view, the shortcomings of the current law cannot be solved by an evaluation or by searching for specific elements such as entry barriers and the way in which you request such a referendum. The lack that an opinion never has a clear status in future in the parliamentary process here can only be resolved by opting for a binding corrective referendum. That is also why this is and remains the final objective for D66: a binding corrective referendum as an emergency brake and a complement to a well-traveled parliamentary process. Finally, Mr President. On the basis of the question put by Mr Baudet last time and the motion that Mr Krol has just tabled on the current state of affairs, I also have a question to the Minister, because that was not entirely clear to me after the first reply. Is it true that the advice and the related documents were not placed equally in the Official Journal? If so, has that actually made a difference for the follow-up here in the Chamber, as the documents have also been published on official announcements.nl? I ask this question because I share with colleagues that we simply have to go through these processes well with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u20	I heard Mr Jetten praise the Council of State's opinion. He says that the Council of State says that it is a political and not a legal consideration to withdraw the referendum law or not. Can Mr Jetten explain to me what the Council of State thinks about the retroactive effect of the repeal law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u21	On this point, too, the Council of State says that it is legally sustainable and that this is a choice that we are making here with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u22	Suppose we were to make a law here today in which we decide to abolish the Constitution. If we say that this law comes into force retroactively, do we no longer have to follow the procedures set out in the Constitution for amending or abolishing the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u23	We have very different procedures for amending our Constitution than for ordinary laws, and that seems very sensible to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u24	That's incorrect. This answer is irrelevant to the question. The whole point is that as a legislator you can of course make a law that works back from a certain point of time, only you have to stick to the procedures that apply at that time for making laws. You can't change the rules during the game. You can't change the rules there are about making that law while making a law. That's illegal. The Council of State's opinion doesn't say anything about that. The Council of State's opinion is silent on this gigantic problem of this repeal law. Whatever you want, you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u25	Again, the comparison with the Constitution is completely flawed, because for the Constitution we agreed to change it into two readings: once before the elections and once after elections. So I do not follow Mr Baudet's comparison.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u26	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u27	That's exactly the problem. That's what we agreed. That is the law now, as is the law now, that every law that is made is, in principle, referendable and, if we make such a request, has suspensive effect on the new law. We have indeed agreed that we can only change the Constitution in two readings. Those are all agreements you can't change into a new law. You can only change that after the law has come into force. You're missing the exact point. As with the amendment of the Constitution, when amending the referendum law, you must also adhere to the current legislative process. You can't put that aside. Your position is fundamentally unjust.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u28	I do not have the exact wording of the Council of State at hand here, but it does say something about ordinary laws and the fact that the current legislator does not need to be restricted by the previous legislator. So the Council of State has given its opinion on it. Mr Baudet may have to read the Council of State's information again. Again, the comparison with the Constitution simply does not apply, because we have agreed different rules for this. That is why we have always opted for the introduction of the correct binding referendum. That is something that needs to be regulated in the Constitution. This gives the emergency brake that we want to add to our parliamentary system in the referendum a proper place in our democracy. We are now seeing this in the consultative referendum. We've arranged that by ordinary law. And that leads to interpretation discussions and uncertainty about the impact of the voter's ruling. Once again, Mr President, D66 ultimately opts for a correct binding referendum as a real emergency brake.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u29	What I see most of all is that the Council of State is trying to push out the hot potato for itself. He doesn't want to burn his fingers on the government's legal magic. That's why we're back here and Mr. Jetten also concludes that it's a political decision. It is a political decision to abolish the referendum and not to allow a referendum on it. Then I ask Mr Jetten why the democratic conscience of D66, Jan Terlouw, is wrong when he says that a referendum on this should be possible. Why are the Young Democrats, the future of D66, wrong when they say that there should be a referendum on this? Why are 20 state law experts all wrong? I'm sure there's a lot of D66s in between when they say it's just not decent and not good that there's no referendum on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u30	However, first of all, about the opinion of the Council of State. There was a kind of fog raised here last week, as if the Council of State had turned into its advice and as if the Council of State itself were politically engaged in its advice. The Court considered that additional information was necessary in order to clarify this. The Council of State has done so now. He confirmed the opinion he had already delivered for the Christmas celebrations. I just wanted to confirm in the first part of my speech that it is nice to hear everyone here tonight saying: what the cabinet wants with this law turns out to be legally correct, because that has been confirmed by the Council of State; but yes, it is a political choice. I think that's a win over last week's first term. Then I come to a number of members of my party, from D66. The beauty of my party is that our members are the highest body in the political party. A few other colleagues might want to try that. Those members have established our party program. Those Members instructed my parliamentary group in the autumn with a motion for a resolution. That assignment is crystal clear. This is: strengthen our democracy, create more direct influence on power, preferably with more directly elected drivers, and add a corrective and binding referendum as an emergency brake. That's not up for tonight. Tonight we are discussing the repeal of the consultative referendum. My group has noted that, unfortunately, this does not contribute sufficiently to the strengthening of democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u31	My question was: where is Jan Terlouw wrong? Where are the D66 kids wrong? Where are all these D66 state lawyers wrong to say that a referendum on the withdrawal of the referendum law should be possible? What did they do wrong? Why is Mr. Jetten right and are all those others wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u32	This isn't about right or wrong at all. The point is that people can look at this issue differently. That's only good. We have a good debate on this in the party, just as we have a good debate on it here in the Chamber. However, I would like to say once again that after that good internal debate in the party, both when the electoral programme was drawn up and later last autumn at our party congress, our Members reaffirmed that D66 is in favour of a correct and binding referendum and no longer of the advisory variant that is now before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u33	Exactly. You can look at it differently. You can look at it as a democrat and also as an anti-democrat. You can look at it as a representative of the people who want to give the people the last word, or as an elite politician serving other interests. That is the choice that needs to be made here today. I wish D66 a lot of strength with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u34	Very good that they listen to the members of the party at D66. So do we as PVVs, so I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u35	That is the perfect democracy, I think: listen to one member.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u36	We've got two. You've been misinformed again. Mr. Chairman. Speaking of Jan Terhouw, it was not so long ago that Mr Jetten read children's books. Mr Terlouw says: one of the first principles of D66, I quote, is the fundamental democratisation of the Netherlands and one of the means is the referendum. The man knows what D66 was founded for. I say this because Mr Jetten tried to darken it a little last Thursday, also in the direction of Mr Van Mierlo. Mr Terlouw says that it was set up for democratisation, including through the referendum. How does Mr Jetten feel about the fact that an old man like Mr Terlouw, if I may be so disrespectful, says this about his own party and that he stands here to destroy what Mr Terlouw was so strong about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u37	First of all, I find it a bit sad that jokes about my age are needed to exchange arguments on an important subject in this debate, namely how we strengthen our democracy. I explained to Mr Bosma during the debate on the corrective referendum in September and at the first time in this debate last week why he is always wrong to abuse Mr Van Mierlo for his argument. Mr Van Mierlo has always been very clear that he is in favour of a correct and binding referendum. I explained why that is still the line of our party. In the meantime, another former party leader, Mr Terlouw, has spoken out about it. As I said in reply to Mr Van Raak, that is an opinion that I respect very much, but we in the party with all the Members, Mr Terlouw, but also 28,000 other Members, have had a good debate on how we want to strengthen democracy in the Netherlands. Once again, we want to do so by more direct influence on power, more directly elected directors, with a correct and binding referendum and no longer with a consultative referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u38	I find it strange that D66 would be in favour of a binding referendum, because there was a fine proposal, but that had to be adopted by Mr Van Raak. D66 wanted nothing to do with it and eventually voted against it. It's a little weird that D66 is using that as an escape right now. Back to Mr Terlouw. Terlouw says that abolishing the referendum in this way weakens democracy. That's a point that almost all people have brought in. Those people say that there was a piece of democratic innovation, there was democratization, and that is simply being abolished. Is that an argument that Mr Jetten thinks is working? Is Mr Jetten saying that Terlouw has a point and that we are weakening democracy in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u39	Unfortunately, in September, the proposal for a remedially binding referendum failed, because as a Chamber we could not agree on the rules of such a remedially binding referendum; also because the Labour Party's and GroenLinks' political groups are no longer in favour of such a remedially binding variant. I heard last week in the first term that apparently there is a lot of support for a referendum. That gives me courage and hope, because we are a long-term party. We continue to work to strengthen democracy. I would like to discuss with all those who are willing to do so how we can achieve a good law for a correct binding referendum. Who knows if we can do that again? On the referendability of the consultative referendum, I outlined some problems with the current consultative variant in the first term. I have said that there is a lack of clarity as to exactly what question lies ahead, about the outcome, about the interpretation of the outcome and about how government and Chamber can deal with it. It leads to disappointment and possibly only to widening the gap between politicians and citizens, if we cannot always explain in consultative referendums why this referendum leads to certain political choices. I have also said that if we see these problems in the current consultative version and then we have a consultative referendum on them, then we in the Second and First Chambers will have the same interpretation discussions again, and we will have possible disappointments again, then we will only see to it that the support for the referendum crumbles further. And then I say: let us make a step forward now, let us learn from the experience that has been gained, let us listen carefully to the parliamentary system committee, to which Mr Krol rightly calls, and with all this input, see if we can reach a correct binding referendum in this Chamber with the right rules of the game.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u40	Very interesting: so for 50 years it would take time to take a step towards a referendum for that to happen. I think very few people in the Netherlands still follow that. However, the question remains why D66 chooses not to make the repeal law referendable and to apply Article VI retroactively. We have noticed a little bit: when has this retroactive effect been applied in the past? It was applied at the time of major abuse. This happened when there was a sudden acute problem that required rapid provision of supplies. Can I ask Mr Jetten of D66 where this massive abuse takes place and where there is a sudden acute problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u41	I am going to give the same answer as Mr Bosma. We heard some comparisons in the debate last week, for example with the law we recently had on Saint Eustatius. I can imagine that there was a different argument under that than under this law. But once again, as I have just said in reply to Mr Bosma, the current ambiguity, the differences in interpretation and the discussions on it are the most important considerations not to argue in favour of referendability of this repeal law. In any case, we have these discussions in consultative and advisory referenda. An advisory opinion on the repeal law is a referendum that I cannot explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u42	So D66 is actually saying that there is a big problem when people express their opinion by means of an advisory referendum on the abolition of the referendum. Isn't that really very bizarre, considering the basic principles of D66 that there should be more participation of citizens, of people in the country? The question remains, of course, whether this problem for D66 is so extensive that it even wants to abolish a step in the right direction, namely an advisory referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u43	I would also like to leave the explanation or appreciation that Mr Kuzu gives to it...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u44	I'd like your appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u45	Well, I'll leave the appreciation with you now. I have now answered Mr Bosma and you, in fact, to the same question. Here's my answer. Whatever appreciation you give it, I really leave it to you. However, I am pleased that you are pointing out once again the fundamental principles of my party, why we were once established, namely to strengthen democracy and to achieve more direct influence on power, with first and foremost elected leaders, a vote on power and a vote on counter-power. Later, in addition to a strong parliamentary democracy, the referendum was added. And yes, I said that last week, over the years, we have been looking for the right form of such a referendum, but with our Members we have once again come to the conclusion that the correct form is a correct and binding referendum, not the advisory and advisory variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u46	Locking up. D66 therefore took 50 years to take steps in the right direction and now the child is just thrown away with the bath water. That's my conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u47	D66 likes member democracy. I believe that the members of D66 have called for the abolition of the consultative referendum to be avoided. That is what Mr Jetten is doing here. He goes through the country like a vacuum cleaner salesman. He does that very well. But my question is why? Why does he not wait for the evaluation or the state committee, when he considers these elements to be so important in a good democratic process?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u48	Firstly, entering the country during a referendum is something D66 does with a lot of fanatical commitment from MPs and volunteers. Unfortunately, we did not see this in the Labour Party when we held a referendum the first time. That 'precedent' is indeed a phrase in our electoral programme. I can be quite honest with Mrs Kuik: we did not, of course, take the lead in this, not in the campaign for the Lower House elections and not at the formation table. It is clear that this was more important for other groups in this coalition than for us. I said last week that this is an agreement from the coalition agreement, which we finally signed and therefore support. I think I have now given sufficient arguments as to why we believe that a correct binding referendum is ultimately better than a consultative one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u49	Now I finally hear a glimpse of the true, honest story, which I think is that you were more or less forced by the coalition partners. I still don't understand why you, as a great pioneer of the consultative referendum and referenda in general, are defending here loud and louder than your minister is now defending that it is being abolished. In fact, you need other parties, including my own party, to polish something that is not right but crooked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u50	I don't quite understand the question. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u51	Why are you leading the way, when your Members have not asked for it, in the right to talk about abolishing the consultative referendum? And just a normal answer, without bothering me, my party or other parties. Just from your point of view, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u52	I don't feel like I'm ahead of myself to do that. I am standing here because I think that, as a spokesman, if your group commits itself to the government agreement and also supports the government's law of withdrawal, you should take the time to explain that and answer questions from the Chamber. If that's what you're pointing at, I'm sorry. In particular, I am trying to explain in substance why we as a group have come to the conclusion that we must return to our original objective, namely a correct binding referendum, and that we do not think that the current advisory, advisory variant is sufficient to meet our desire, namely more direct influence on power.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u53	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u54	I conclude that Mr Jetten has been practicing a round reasoning for himself for a long time...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u55	No, no personal qualifications.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u56	I am just saying, Mr President, that I think that Mr Jetten has been practicing in front of the mirror for a long time and that he has thus found a reason for himself, but I also note that he is at the forefront of something that D66 has always considered very important, without having an evaluation and without having a state committee. And I think that's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u57	That wasn't a question. I want to know how far along you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u58	I think I have already said everything, including in the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u59	Suppose we manage to force a referendum on this repeal law because we are about to collect signatures. Suppose the Election Council agrees with us that there will be a referendum with an 80% turnout, that an overwhelming part of the electorate will vote against this repeal law, and so in that referendum it will want to keep the referendum. Does D66 change his point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u60	That's a lovely statement by Mr Baudet. In the case of all the referendums that have been requested, two have finally arrived, first Ukraine and later on the referendum on the Intelligence and Security Services Act, my group has always said, as it says in the law, that if the electorate decides, it is up to the Chamber to reconsider the law. So should there ever be a referendum on this repeal law, we will have the same attitude. We will then wait for the referendum and, as the law asks the Chamber, we will reconsider the relevant law. I would add that this is happening in Mr Baudet's scenario, because I believe that we have received good legal advice from the Council of State as to why this scenario is unlikely to occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u61	Mr. Baudet, you don't have to. Then I'm going to see Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u62	We're gonna get through this anyway. Mr Jetten, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and But he doesn't believe in it either, of course. He now admits honestly that the others had to do it. The VVD made me do it. The CDA made me do it. The Christian Union made me do it. They made me do it. I understand that point of view better, but then I ask: what did D66 get back? D66 has made a great sacrifice, with soul and salvation. So what did D66 get back for this sacrifice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u63	I think I answered this question exactly last week. My answer is still: in coalition negotiations there is no ordinary trade-out between point a and point b. So I simply cannot answer Mr Van Raak's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u64	This question was indeed discussed in detail last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u65	But I'm still trying to figure it out. Mark Rutte, Buma and Segers ask Alexander Pechtold: can you turn in your crown jewel and turn in your democratic soul? Then Alexander Pechtold says: that's fine; we do. Alexander Pechtold doesn't say: but then I want this or that, or sister or something? You have to get something in return, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u66	I warmly invite Mr Van Raak to join the negotiations next time with his SP Group. He'll find out how that goes. As a group, you ultimately judge a total package, a complete coalition agreement, and then you weigh down whether it is a coalition agreement that does enough justice to our electoral programme. Once again, specifically on the subject of the referendum, we were of course not in the forefront of putting this issue on the agenda for the formation talks, but once it was on the agenda, we simply entered into a good substantive discussion on how this consultative referendum works and whether it does what we intended, namely more influence on power. We have come to the conclusion, as I have argued extensively for two nights, that for D66 the correct binding referendum is the right brake on parliamentary democracy and not the advisory, advisory variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u67	Well, then, I'd like to suggest that you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u68	This also brings me to the end of my speech, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u69	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now turn to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u70	Thank you, Mr President. You're disappointed in the consultative referendum because that didn't bring us what we expected. Then you express your full confidence in the correct binding referendum. Yes, then I wonder: how do the advocates know for sure that that brings what you expect? I have considered doing this as an interruption, but there were so many colleagues who took the measure of the D66 colleague that I did not feel called upon to do so, but I think it is a pressing question. Two points remain for us. That is the first question to which the proposal before us must refer. Secondly, this is the transitional arrangement for ongoing and possibly new initiatives before this legislative proposal takes effect. As far as the question of whether a referendum should be held on the proposal before us is concerned, we have had information from the Council of State this afternoon. It describes the measures taken in this bill to block such a referendum as being legally effective. But that does not mean legal cleanliness and it does not mean legal good either. It just means that you achieve what you're aiming for in this way, but it doesn't mean that it's of good quality. The Council of State also makes it very clear that it is a political question whether or not to hold a referendum on this issue. We welcome the fact that this referendum has been abolished, but we believe that it must be done in a very pure and careful manner, in a state-law manner, because this is also a question of the reliability and soundness of the government. That is why we will support Mr Özütok's amendment, which provides for making the legislative proposal as it stands. Then there's the transitional arrangement. That is also a matter of constitutional care. Initiatives can still be launched under the current referendum law. And what do you do with that? Once that happens, you can say that at the moment that this new bill has been passed, we cut everything off and block it, but we do not think that this is a good policy. As far as we are concerned, there will be room for an orderly conclusion of the referendum path. To this end, we have tabled an amendment signed by Bishop, Arissen and Chicken. Meanwhile, I can tell you that it was also signed by Baudet, Bosma, Kuzu, Özütok, Krol and Van Raak. I will see to it that the amendment with the supplementary signature is retabled tomorrow. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u71	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u72	Mr. Chairman. I agreed with all the previous speakers, except for Mr Jetten. And the fact that such a proposal actually links from left to right in the Chamber is special. After the detailed explanation, the Council of State says: it is legally effective, it can be so. It will be after the vote, I think, for the First Chamber to decide whether it can agree with that. Nevertheless, there is another attempt on our part to improve something more legally and legally. That is why we will also support the amendments tabled by Mrs Özütok and Mr Bishop, as well as the motion tabled by Mr Krol. It is, of course, a political choice, but as I said in my first term, you do not have to be in love with the consultative referendum. You can also think: I actually want to improve it and I think it needs to be improved. Nevertheless, it is not good to abolish the consultative referendum before you have even evaluated it, as you had agreed in advance, and before the state committee has had a chance to advise us on how to improve our democratic processes and the involvement of individual people, especially since you have no alternatives at all. We cannot expect a corrective referendum from the cabinet or, for example, an initiative of D66 or otherwise very innovative democratic matters. Sometimes you have to rely on the old and build that, and not turn off once. Mr. Chairman. I therefore have no further second-term questions. It is now up to the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u73	Mrs Kuik says that there is no initiative to be expected from the Chamber, but I think I have just said something else about that. My question to Mrs Kuik would be: if someone in the Chamber takes such an initiative, will the Labour Party join us? I am asking this question because your Members' Congress has also previously voted against a remedially binding referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u74	We went out to Congress with the idea: keep the consultative referendum in the air, improve it and see what you can do with it. Put in a pass with the corrective referendum. So that's my starting point now. If it turns out that the consultative referendum is in the trash and we have another next congress, we will see what our members think of it. But I say to you that after your big words, I expect at least an initiative from you, and that it is not about abolishing one thing and another.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u75	In the first term Mr Krol and I had already agreed on a cup of coffee. We'll send Mrs. Chicken an invitation by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u76	I think that's a very good idea. Thank you, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u78	I now turn to Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u79	Thank you, Mr President. The referendum seems democratic, but it is not. It is a blunt instrument that does not do justice to Dutch democracy. It does not do justice to our open state system, which has so much proportionality, that it has such wide access, that large parties and small parties give a great deal of participation and right of speech, that we also have such a division of power here with the First Chamber, with almost always necessary coalitions, where we are also seriously controlled and advised by something like the Council of State. We also have a hugely open policy in which many parties exist, in which there are varying majorities on different subjects. We have a very active press who participates in the democratic debate. And we have very mouthy Dutch people, people who are involved in politics and who also know that it is more than just "yes" or "no." We must therefore take the electorate seriously, who stands up in a very large number to choose the House of Representatives, who then puts us here in enormous nuance, with now 13 parties, and who is counting on us to find solutions to problems and take them seriously. So we shouldn't pretend that business is black and white or that it's all that simple. No, we need to know that there are trade-offs here between alternatives, between different options. That's what we're debating. We're negotiating on that. We're all here to discuss these options. It's not black and white. Let's take problems seriously. For example, let us also listen to the Council of State, which gives a serious opinion on the law before us. Finally, Mr President. We must therefore take Dutch democracy seriously. This debate is an illustration of this. Look around us. How many parties do we see here? We are all here and we are here in enormous diversity because the Dutchman has many different opinions, positions and visions, which we represent here. We must work together to find a solution to this. In this debate, we tried together last time to find solutions. We agreed at that time that we would listen to the Council of State again to hear what it wanted to advise. We've heard that advice now. So let's get on with that together. But we have to be clear that things are not as black and white as some members of the opposition are. No, it's obvious that a referendum ignores the nuance of the last time I said "finely painted" of Dutch politics. It's not black and white. It's nicely painted. Let's do this right. Let us do justice to Dutch democracy and to Dutch democratic culture. The referendum seems to be a democratic instrument, but it is not. It is a blunt instrument that does not do justice to the beautiful open democracy in the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u80	Yeah, the democratic culture of the VVD... are we gonna talk about that? If Shell calls, the policy will be adjusted for many billions. And when the people decide, that statement will be thrown into the trash as soon as possible. Something is democratic according to the VVD if the Prime Minister thinks it is democratic. What the population thinks, the VVD doesn't matter at all. You know what I think, Madam President? I think we really need the referendum. We need the referendum firmly against the democracy of the VVD, against the attitude of the VVD, who listens to companies, to multinationals, but not to ordinary people and who hate the people. Mr Koopmans' speech shows exactly why we need the referendum so badly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u81	Mr Van Raak's question... At least, it was not a question but a comment. Mr Van Raak's comment shows exactly why the referendum is not an appropriate means. So he says: we must use the referendum to oppose something, regardless of the subject of the referendum. Then I'll say no. The referendum is merely a means of saying yes or no to something, but in the campaign, Mr Van Raak will still have personal memories of that, many arguments are being used that have nothing to do with the subject, with what it is really about. What he is saying here in the form of a question is actually exactly such a call for a referendum for something that is not at all about. This proves once again the correctness of my statement that the referendum is being used as a means of opposing and that it is not therefore a means of improving democracy. Thank you, Mr. Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u82	This is precisely the scared liberal, the people's representative who is afraid of the people. I also think it is a good thing that there is a representative here who says: if we find something here with the VVD, the CDA, the Christian Union and D66, then that is democratic, and if the people find something, then that is a suggestion that we can also throw in the trash. I find it quite remarkable that a liberal here says that a democratic right can be abolished without the people having to say anything about it. So I repeat that this is once again a confirmation of why we need the referendum. Because the VVD doesn't understand democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u83	That was a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u84	That was a comment, but let me say something about it. Mr Van Raak's point that a referendum strengthens democracy is noteworthy that we are all democratically elected here too, that Parliament plays a democratic role and that the decisions taken by Parliament, after that extensive process that I have just mentioned, are democratic decisions. And if I may remind Mr Van Raak of what he said before, namely that he is using the referendum to be against things in fact separate from what the referendum is about, then I say exactly, that is to combat the democratic process that we are facing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u85	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u86	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. We're representatives. We represent the people. If we all pass laws that the population doesn't want, we're not doing our job right. And the referendum is a wonderful addition to representative democracy. In fact, the referendum is the crown of representative democracy, because the voter can correct his elected voice, can advise at a time when the people feel it is necessary. That is the difference between the democracy of the VVD and that of the SP. In the democracy of the VVD the government has the last word and in the democracy of the SP the people have the last word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u87	Then I hope that Mr Van Raak will put that in the statutes of the SP as well. But then the way the VVD operates democracy. We have a hugely open party democracy. We're probably gonna talk about that later. We are very much in favour of involving people in the political process. We'll promote it as much as we can. Then we want as many people as possible to participate actively in politics, in the VVD, in the SP or in other parties. We want people to participate as much as possible. We are very much in favour of broadening the political debate. Only we say that this debate is also taking place here, in Parliament. We must take this process seriously and this contributes to this hugely open Dutch democratic culture. Let us cherish it and let us not do it, as Mr Van Raak now pretends, as if things were black and white. No, things are finely painted, nuanced, and we need to work on that together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u88	What wonderful words from fellow minister Van Raak just now. What a wonderful interruption. Does Mr Koopmans agree with me that we are voting for or against a specific proposal here in the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u89	At the end of a very long process, in which either we or the government submit a legislative proposal, in which we debate in committee meetings all of which I can recommend them to Mr Baudet and also in this debate room, in which we negotiate, in which we talk about it and where we improve things. After that huge process, we finally come to a conclusion. That is often a compromise. It is really necessary to compromise because we have coalitions and because we are also trying to do as much as possible with everyone here. At the end of this huge process, yes, we have a session in which we vote, yes or no to those proposals. But there is that whole process. I think it's very good to remind you of that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u90	Yes. However, the answer to my question is: yes, we will eventually vote for or against something. Of course, the process preceding it is important. No one wants to abolish that either. No one wants to wipe that process out and replace it with a referendum that is magical with a proposal that has not been discussed in all kinds of other places. That's not the discussion at all. The only question is whether this will ultimately be voted for or against anything. Is something ultimately a binary choice? Is something eventually black and white and not all those fine shades of grey that Mr Koopmans talks about all the time? Eventually, it's black and white. In the end, this is a yes or a no. The whole argument of Mr Koopmans, I can conclude, does not make any sense; the whole argument of why the referendum could not work, because it is ultimately a yes-no choice. Here in the Lower House we also make a yes-no choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u91	Mr President, perhaps I can remind Mr Baudet of, I think, his favourite brexitive. That referendum can also be called a yes-no choice. But it is quite clear that a small majority of the British voted for the Brexit. But what should replace it is not clear at all. So there are very complicated negotiations on this now and nobody knows it. And why did people vote yes or no? There are all different explanations for that. No, it is not so black and white, I say to Mr Baudet. It's much more nuanced. Let's be clear about that. I look forward to his next interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u92	Your last comment, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u93	I would like to ask whether or not I agree with the substance of this remark on the Brexit. I think the results were very clear. And of course, then there are all kinds of other policy decisions. Not all of them can be presented in a referendum. But the breach was of a fundamentally different nature than the kind of referendum we are debating here today. We are not talking about a Brexit-type referendum here, but this referendum is a veto, an emergency brake for the people like the Chamber, after all those committees Mr Koopmans loves so much, comes to a decision whose people say: we don't recognize ourselves in this, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. That is the referendum we are talking about here. That has nothing to do with a Brexit-like referendum. This is an emergency brake for the people to say no if representative democracy is no longer, unexpectedly, representative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u94	You may respond briefly, Mr Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u95	It is not entirely clear to me whether Mr Baudet is abandoning his former predilection for the brexitive. But he does say that then all decision points come out that you cannot hold a referendum on. That's what I think he just said. So at least he agrees with my position that there are a lot of things you can't hold a referendum about. Well, the VVD believes that the referendum is a very blunt instrument that seems democratic but it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u96	You can find a lot of things about referenda. But from what you have said, I understand that you are actually saying: the discussion, the consultation and the political debate are taking place here and we are taking decisions here. On the other hand, however, the people say they want the referendum to be the right thing to do. There's a small percentage of the population that doesn't want it. Those are the highly educated. Why do you not trust the voice of the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u97	No, Mrs Özütok has really misunderstood me. The VVD is huge for as much involvement as possible of everyone in the democratic process. And the democratic process takes place not only in this room, but also outside on the street, in the halls, in the municipal councils, in the water boards, in the Provincial States, in the living room with the people at home and everywhere. The democratic process is everywhere. I'm just saying, people choose us, which leads to this huge diversity that we have here. Then they also ask us to take the assignment we have seriously. They are asking us to really solve the problems. So we have a very broad view of democracy. As many people as possible, from all kinds of different backgrounds, need to be involved. That's what we stand for. We are simply saying that the referendum is a very blunt instrument that makes things black and white. And these things are not black and white at all; Mrs Özütok undoubtedly agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u98	Well, it's black and white the way you described it. I think it becomes clear to everyone that you do not really appreciate the advice and advice of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u99	I'm just gonna get rid of this. On the contrary, it is extremely important that everyone is involved. The VVD is very much in favour of that. We are also very pleased that Mr Remkes is now chairing this committee which is looking at reform of the parliamentary system and even more possibilities for participation. And meanwhile, VVDs go all the way down the street to talk to everyone. You will see that too, Mrs Özütok. Those VVDs are also asking everyone to come here to contribute to the debate. That's important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u100	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u101	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much to the Minister for answering the questions in the first term. It feels a long time ago. It was last week. I note, on behalf of the CDA Group, that the Council of State, also at the request of the Chamber, has provided very clear information in which it again explains why the Cabinet is taking the right steps to repeal the referendum law. As far as the CDA is concerned, there is therefore no longer any discussion about, for example, whether there should be a referendum on this, because the Council of State actually holds a mirror for us as a Chamber and says: do you still invoke the democratic right that you have as a Chamber, because you have been elected to make certain choices, and you are not bound by Chambers in the past who have spoken otherwise? I do not understand why there are all Members of Parliament who are trying to demonstrate here and who, in particular, would not want to exercise their democratic rights in front of those voters who have been to the polls massively. If MPs say that withdrawing the referendum would be a middle finger to the voter... Well, guys, that's a huge middle finger to many more people who've been to the ballot box. If I take the previous referendum, two thirds of the Netherlands did not go there. In fact, Mr Baudet is also the instigator of this discussion. This was about an association agreement with Ukraine, of which two thirds of the Netherlands thought: whatever. Such a subject is actually the last nail in the coffin of the consultative referendum. That's what we're doing right now. We stop saying that the political game, which people are allowed to give advice on us, is what we then have to turn our backs on about what the electorate meant. It is a toy of politicians disguised as a citizen's input.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u102	Is this where I hear criticism of the turnout? Is it said here that if a turnout is lower than a certain percentage, the outcome of that election cannot be taken seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u103	Apart from the fact that the referendum law itself states a percentage, that is not the point I want to make. I simply note that two thirds of voters have decided not to take advantage of this opportunity. That is not at all, I think, because they would be so incredibly opposed to a referendum, but above all because they simply didn't understand what you really did, when you had never been involved with it, should have an association agreement with Ukraine. Afterwards, they saw the party where this Chamber began to break her mind about what the voters had said. In fact, I would say to you: the fact that you first declared the referendum applicable to something like an association agreement, you really, or perhaps with other motivations, have contributed to the fact that people here in the Chamber have been scratching behind the ear once again, of: is this something we should saddle the electorate with?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u104	I am still extremely proud of the small role I was allowed to play in that referendum. The association agreement with Ukraine is one of the most dramatic treaties we have concluded. It's taken the country to the abyss. It has brought us into a geopolitical conflict with Russia. It has caused numerous other huge problems, not least the EU's re-enlargement of power. It has shown that a large proportion of voters in the Netherlands, over 60%, did not want this. I understand why the incumbent power is so afraid of this. It is the EU that has to go through. It is the EU that needs to go further, that needs to get bigger, and oh what would happen if the population stopped that? But one more important point you're making is: it's about that turnout. Are you aware that the elections to the European Parliament in 1999 saw a turnout lower than 32%?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u105	I'm familiar with that, but I just told you the turnout wasn't my point. You can ask a second question about that, but that is not the point I am making. The point I'm making...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u106	Yes, it is. You said two-thirds stay home, it doesn't matter enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u107	Yeah, you can establish that, but then I haven't said anything about whether I accept the turnout. The point I wanted to make is that you used the referendum to raise another issue. You have said: we are talking about the treaty with Ukraine, but that is what you are saying now, and we are talking about the power of the European Union. So we're talking about x and it's about y. Mr Van Raak said that again during today's debate. He shall speak after his group chairman, Marijnissen. It says: we have a referendum on the Intelligence and Security Services Act, but if you say no to that, you actually say that you are in favour of the referendum; so the intelligence services are opposed to a referendum. Then who will understand what they are going to use a referendum for? This proves exactly what I started my speech with last time, namely that the referendum simply became a toy of politicians. It would be a bit of a disguise of electoral participation, because you want to have the same discussion, here on the floor, that you had before the adoption of a law. While there are big words about the citizen here, I really think that is a bit of a voter's nose.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u108	This is fucking shit. The arguments I just mentioned against the dramatic association agreement are direct arguments against the association agreement. Those are not derived arguments, they are not arguments that have been dragged with their hairs. They are arguments against this dramatic treaty, one of the greatest geopolitical mistakes in the history of the European Union and in the history of the Netherlands since the fall of the Berlin Wall. There has also been empirical research into what the Dutch electorate thought. The majority of voters voted against, because it did not trust the Ukrainian government because of the corruption. This is a very valid point, because Ukraine is one of the most corrupt countries in the world. Another part voted against because it was convinced that this treaty would bring Ukraine on the verge of membership. Both points are simply factually correct. They are good, substantive arguments to oppose the dramatic association agreement with Ukraine. The whole argument that nobody knew what he was voting for is bullshit. You probably didn't know what you were voting for when you approved that stupid treaty! You have no idea what's going on. You do not know what the European Union is up to. You do not know what is going on in Ukraine. That is what you really say, but keep the voter out of it!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u109	You may respond, but I also appeal to you to speak through the President and not to address each other, but to call each other by name. That is what you have done, as Mr Baudet has done. You guys really need to stop doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u110	Excuse me. I saw a rather excited gentleman Baudet standing behind the microphone. But I want to encourage him. It's his democratic right. In this Chamber, we will discuss with each other why we want or do not want business. You were also pleased that people came to the ballot box. Mr President, Mr Baudet was also pleased that the voters came to the ballot box in large numbers. A huge turnout to give us a mandate to make decisions. I see Mr Baudet sitting there regularly in the back of the benches. Then I think, "That's great, isn't it?" That's exactly the democracy I'm coming up for tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u111	We got him! We got him! The evil genius has been found. It was the VVD, but it was mainly the CDA that screwed D66 in the suit. What does Mr Van der Molen say? He says that the referendum is terrible, because it is going to force politicians to impose their problems on the people. While the reality is that initiatives are being taken from the people, which require hundreds of thousands of signatures, that millions of people say no, speak out, out of conviction. And what does the CDA say, what does Mr Van der Molen say? Those millions of people, all these ordinary people, they're crazy, they're bad, and they're getting worked up. This is exactly the problem. Mr Van der Molen is not a representative of the people. He doesn't deserve that title. I think it is a shame that people are being talked about in such a way!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u112	Mr Van der Molen is an elected representative of the people. He's allowed to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not need to be touched by the words of Mr Van Raak. If someone walks behind the microphone like this, anyone can hear it. I think a lot of people are wondering if this is the way to discuss it with each other. Mr Van Raak's point is that I would not be pleased at all with people going to the ballot box. I'm avoiding that. I made it very clear in the debate that I do not think the voter is too stupid for a referendum at all. I don't believe that. But the CDA does not want us to have a consultative referendum, which the Chamber has so crafted up that we will get an opinion that does not need to be adopted, that you still have to debate, so that you are actually back to square one, because the politicians here can play a game with the electorate's statement. I think that the voter's statement is very serious, and I take it seriously too, but I do not think that the instrument is right at all. That is why it is a good choice for this cabinet to submit the repeal law. And then, Mr President, although I admire the suit that Mr Jetten is wearing, it looks very good on him: D66 has not been sewn into a suit in the negotiations, nor has it been forced by any party. At some point you'll consider that this is the package on which you want to rule. That's what D66, VVD, CDA and ChristenUnion have agreed. And yes, the CDA has always been against a consultative referendum. That's why I'm not here shooting. This is simply the opinion of the CDA, and that is why we support the cabinet's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u114	It's true: that's a CDA opinion. People's representatives of the CDA say: we have been elected, we are going to go ahead, we are going to serve interests, and we are not going to be advised in this and we are not going to be corrected in any way. That is a reasonable view, at least: that is a view. I do not consider that to be a testament to an entire democratic institution. A representative of the people should be advised, should be corrected. Mr Van der Molen says: we do not. That's clear. We see where this plan comes from, namely from the CDA's tube, supported by the VVD. I think it is very tragic that this Minister will have to explain all this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u115	I think Mr Van Raak at least takes my role very seriously. After a year of parliamentary membership, I still know some modesty, but it is true that the CDA is seeking to strengthen our democracy not so much in a consultative referendum as in a first-term proposal. We need to strengthen this Parliament by choosing people much more directly from the region so that the link between the electorate and democracy is strengthened. This, in our view, strengthens representative democracy. We also want you to be able to engage much more in the debate. That is also something we do as a party. We have the municipal elections on March 21st. For the CDA, this means that thousands of volunteers go into the country in order to engage us in the debate with the electorate in all the municipalities. I'm very proud of that. And I really believe that we are sitting here with a democratic mandate to make a choice that may not sound good but is sensible for democracy, namely to say goodbye to the political toy that has become the referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u116	That is all true and it sounds good: municipal elections, party for democracy, party for democracy, people are allowed to go to the ballot box to judge who can represent them in local government. However, I felt that some big words were just being used by the CDA: political games, voters who are getting worked up by political parties who are in favour of a referendum. Well, then, here's what I'm wondering. All those hundreds of thousands of people who have signed signatures, all those millions of voters who have exercised their democratic right to vote, by voting in a referendum: do you not think the words you have just used are contemptuous of the electorate who wants to exercise that democratic right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u117	I don't think so, because you're twisting my words. I have no criticism whatsoever of the electorate, nor of those who exercise that democratic right. I think that's just their right, because the law gave them that. What I am critical of on behalf of the CDA is that this is an inadequate instrument. Because people with all the good intentions and commitment, who have gone into the subject, go to the ballot box, and then put it here as advice, and then politics goes along with it. That really can't be the expectation we want to fulfill when we pretend to give people real influence. As far as the CDA is concerned, there are much better ways of doing this. A good step in that direction is that we do not continue with the consultative referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u118	I can go through with it again, but this attitude is such a regent, such a regent attitude in terms of: we in the CDA have always been against a consultative referendum. In other words, we have always been opposed to the citizen's participation at certain, conscious moments about defined choices. That really isn't from this time of year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u119	This surprises me. I also heard in the debate a number of times that it was the elite and so on. Here is just a simple mbo'er from Leeuwarden, who seems to be elite within a year. Yeah, well, that might be career-making, but at least it doesn't feel that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u121	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. I now turn to Mrs Van der Graaf, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u122	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions we had asked in the first term. I would also like to thank the Council of State, which, at such short notice, gave a more detailed account of its opinion. The Council of State has also made it clear today that there is scope to exclude this law from a referendum and that it has been given a clear place in the legislative proposal. It's a good thing that clarity is here now. I believe that this is no longer disputed in this debate. I agree with the questions raised by colleagues on disclosure and with the question whether the relevant provisions of the law have been correctly followed. I would like to hear the Minister's response. Mr. Chairman. Our parliamentary system is open and accessible to newcomers. We have seen this in the last elections: a broad range of views and opinions is represented in this Chamber. It's a system that we can really be proud of. For the Christian Union, the consultative referendum has never been a good instrument within the system of representative democracy as we know it. It is a breach of that system and in practice it leads to a great deal of uncertainty as to what should be done with the opinion. If there is a no, there must be a review. If the Chambers of Parliament decide again to adopt the bill, then you really have a big gap. It is therefore a recipe for disappointments. The Christian Union Group can therefore support this proposal. The parties now say that the consultative referendum is an emergency brake, but it is not. The referendum on the Intelligence and Security Services Act would actually be a referendum on abolishing the referendum, but it is not. See also how parties are currently throwing sand in the eyes of the electorate and putting forward an impure approach to this instrument. That underlines our arguments for opposing it. But we are not here with the abolition of this instrument. For the Christian Union, as a political one, we really need to go on a search with the citizens: how can we better shape and strengthen cooperation between citizens and government in order to strengthen democracy and improve citizens' control? For the Christian Union also sees that in the system we have, not all citizens feel sufficiently represented or feel well represented in their interests. We are therefore also looking forward to the proposals of the parliamentary system committee, which has really put this issue at the heart of the matter. Mr. Chairman. I am really happy to live in a country in which we can name it with each other and work on it in order to increase the control, including of the citizens, of what is happening in their own environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u123	Interestingly, that committee, the committee parliamentary system. One of the things she's going to investigate is the referendum. That's interesting. Suppose the committee says that referendum is a good idea; what then? Then we've just abolished it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u124	The committee investigates a lot of cases. The core of what she is researching is what we can do to ensure that not everyone feels equally well represented in our representative democracy. She's looking into a number of things. She's also looking at the instruments we have. I am also looking forward to the opinions or recommendations that the committee will eventually come up with. We will therefore have to assess them on their merits. The Christian Union has always argued that in the system of representative democracy as we know it, an advisory referendum is not the right instrument. I do not see that we will think otherwise in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u125	No, but Mrs De Graaf wants to abolish the referendum. One of her arguments is that we have such a fine committee. That committee is in the process of considering the referendum. Is it not just a little more decent to wait until the committee has finished its opinion on the referendum before we abolish the referendum with the Christian Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u126	I have just argued that the Christian Union has never been in favour of the instrument of an advisory referendum. In our view, that should never have happened. We have also seen where it leads: a widening of the gap between citizens and politics rather than narrowing the gap. I do not see why the Christian Union should come back to that position later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u127	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u128	Mr. Chairman. "An appeal to every Dutchman who is concerned about the serious devaluation of our democracy," says the appeal to the initiative to create D66 in 1966. Any citizen who was worried about the serious devaluation could go to D66. You had to pay a florin, a guilder for that. If I had lived in that time, I would have given it a guilder. But now, 50 years later, it's exactly the other way around. Now citizens have to turn away from D66 if they are concerned about the devaluation of our democracy, because D66 is now itself responsible for the devaluation of democracy. D66 abolishes the referendum for which it has fought for decades. Sad things are indeed happening in our country. The withdrawal of the referendum is a perfect example of this. D66 is about the fight to withdraw the referendum or perhaps win it, but D66 has lost the people: between 70% and 80% of the Dutch are in favour of the referendum, says CBS. An overwhelming majority, a majority that the government should respect. But I'm afraid that's not gonna happen. The government behaves arrogantly and regentically. The government actually says: we do not care at all about your opinion, we take the referendum away, we want you to have as little influence as possible. Even a referendum on the referendum refuses to hold the government. That's a raised finger to the people. And I don't mean the index finger. But even if a referendum were to be held, the government would ignore the outcome. Rutte already did that when it was about the association agreement with Ukraine. The government then makes such a "no" just a "yes." That's probably democracy according to this cabinet. We think it is right that there is a great deal of criticism of D66. But we must not forget that D66 is not alone when it comes to taking away the referendum. D66 is not the only democratic thief. The VVD also takes away the referendum. The CDA also does that. And so does the Christian Union. That's democratic theft. I actually have a lot of questions, but a number of motions have been tabled, including by Mr Krol, who deal with the evaluation committee on the parliamentary system. There have been enough points made. As DENK, we will support these motions and the amendments tabled by Mr Bishop and Mrs Özütok. That's what our name is underneath. Mr. Chairman. Okay, here's what I'm gonna say. In 1917 and 1919 universal suffrage was introduced in two steps. In 2018, more than 100 years later, the consultative referendum will be abolished by this centre-right coalition. That's what turned the clock back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u129	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Democracy Forum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u130	There she is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u131	That's the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u132	The assassin of democracy. Kajsa Ollongren. The D66 demonization minister. The censuratorsarina. The one who, on behalf of the Rutte cabinet, wants to undermine our free society. The one who called the Forum for Democracy a threat to the democratic rule of law and said that we want to commit criminal offences. It is itself the greatest threat to the democratic rule of law. It is as if she is also arrogantly laughing at us all in the face as she destroys the democratic rights of the Dutch, as she tramples on the careful Dutch legislative processes, ignores them and flies on her high boots.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u133	Mr. Baudet, we agreed last time on the first term that we should address the minister as minister because she is in trade-K on behalf of the Crown, not as a person and not as a D66'er. I'd like you to respect that. So address the minister as minister and do not give personal qualifications.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u134	There she is, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u135	Mr. Baudet...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u136	I'm speaking to her as a minister, aren't I? That's where the minister is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u137	Good. Please continue. It almost sounds poetic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u138	That's where the minister takes the Dutch people out of play. Where's Alexander Pechtold tonight? Where is Alexander Pechtold while D66 carries the crown jewels of his own party for grave? Where does D66 get these know-it-all backbenchers who have to solve these kinds of chores? Which penthouse was promised to him for the chestnuts he's taking out of the fire tonight? Here in the Chamber, here in Parliament, 90 out of 150 seats are a large majority, an overwhelming majority to parties who have promised in their election programme to support the referendum. These are the election programmes chosen by the Dutch voters on 15 March, election programmes in which the referendum was defended. An overwhelming majority of the population in all opinion polls also indicated that they were in favour of the referendum. And yet a coalition of 76 seats is able to break down the will of the people by compromise. So here representative democracy is no longer representative. Party interests go beyond the will of the people. The system doesn't work here anymore. Something fundamentally goes wrong here. And then there is the way in which this repeal law is rushed through. In her manic haste to silence the population, the minister threw all forms of care overboard and completely dismissed the requirements set out in Article 26 (2) of the Law on the Council of State. It's weird. But the most absurd thing is that the Minister thinks that the use of retroactive effect in the repeal law is a kind of time machine, which allows you to terminate the Advisory referendum Act at the time of ratification by the King's signature, even before the repeal law has been published in the Official Journal and even before the repeal law has thus entered into force. According to the Minister, the repeal law may enter into force retroactively at the time of ratification by the Head of State. Once again, that is before the repeal law has entered into force at all. And you can't. A law cannot have any effect if it has not yet entered into force. What Ollongren is doing here can be illustrated by an example. Suppose the Chamber adopts a law to reduce the maximum speed of 100 km/h to 80 km/h. Even before this law has officially entered into force by publication in the Official Journal, the new law already applies and, indeed, with retroactive effect. Anyone who drove faster than 80 km/h since January 1st last year will also get a speeding ticket with retroactive effect. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that this really cannot be done. This is contrary to all principles of good governance, to all principles of legal certainty and to all democratic and constitutional guarantees. This is unacceptable in a free society. It's unjust. It is fundamentally incompatible with all the principles that we have recognised here for 200 years and which form the basis of our rule of law. Minister Ollongren has not only politically completely abject views, delusions about positions that we as a Forum for Democracy would like, and very scary ideas about Internet censorship, but she is also a threat to the democratic rule of law. That is why I am forced to table a motion of censure this evening. This minister has to go. This minister can't stay on. Anyone who demonises the opposition as Minister of the Interior in her capacity as Minister of the Interior, who wants to introduce censorship on the Internet and who now wants to overturn the referendum, is a danger to the Netherlands and a danger to democracy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Minister has violated all the requirements of careful legislation in her hasty attempts to repeal the Advisory referendum Act;]] [[declares confidence in the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34854-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u139	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. This is part two of the nasty debate in which this Minister intends to carry the Advisory referendum Act to the grave with unprecedented urgency and embarrassing carelessness. What kind of confidence should citizens still have in politics if even the original authors of the initiative law had to show from the gallery or through twitter during the first term of this debate that they were completely unaware of the abolition of what was a genuine democratic renewal? An advisory referendum: once the crown jewel of D66! But now this is being chased through this Chamber with steam and boiling water, because receiving the council of the citizens has not brought what was expected of it. We have only tried once, at the Ukraine referendum; or twice, when the referendum on the European Constitution is included. There is every reason for sadness when direct democracy is wiped off the table with a raving repeal law, despite all the great words of democratic renewal. The general consultation on democratic renewal, which was on the agenda for next Wednesday, has already been postponed. 'Cause what else is there to say? Surely the Minister can't go through with a dry eye and explain her vision of democratic renewal if she has just destroyed the instrument for real democratic renewal and caused democratic decline?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u140	Before the image arises that the cabinet can postpone an AO: we as a Chamber ourselves go over our agenda. Is Mrs Arissen aware that, as a Chamber itself, we have moved that AO back for a few weeks, because we ourselves as a Chamber are organising a round table on how, among other things, we can further strengthen democracy at local level?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u141	An AO is simply a committee debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u142	It is very unfortunate that D66 is now saying that we have pushed it backwards, whereas that party does not consider all the committees and all the reports on democratic renewal that are to come out of the table as well, relevant to this debate and does not wish to wait for it. I do not know what Mr Jetten is trying to say here, but D66 is not doing anything about democratic renewal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u143	It has just been suggested that we are deliberately pushing back committee meetings on democratic renewal, but that is precisely what we are doing, as Mrs Arissen has confirmed, because the Chamber has taken the initiative to organise a round table on this issue, and that is nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u144	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u145	It's been noted. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State stresses that although it is legally possible not to make the repeal law itself referendable, it reiterates that the justification previously put forward for excluding the repeal law itself from the possibility of referendum is still insufficient. I quote on page 3, second paragraph: 'It is now up to the legislator to assess whether the justification given in the explanatory memorandum is adequate'. The legislator, that is the government and the members of the First and Second Chambers together. In other words, whether it is desirable that a referendum should not be held on this withdrawal of the consultative referendum itself is a political choice, not a legal choice, the Council of State states. It is therefore up to us, Members of Parliament, to assess whether the government will support that well by the Minister tonight. The Council of State knows that retroactive action is a very heavy legal instrument, which can only be used in very exceptional cases. But nothing is said about this; not in the opinion and not in the explanatory statement of the Council of State. The Animal Party is of the opinion that it is unfair to change the rules of the game during the game. We have therefore co-signed the amendments tabled by GroenLinks and the SGP, which not only make the withdrawal itself referenceable, but also break the retroactive effect. Decent transitional rights, that's what we're asking. Nor is there any mention of not publishing in the Official Journal. This is required by law, in order to give citizens the best possible opportunity to learn about legislative proposals, from the point of view of legal certainty. The fact that it has not been published seems to have been a mistake; one to which the legislator has not imposed a penalty, but to which the Court may impose a penalty. The Minister is in breach of a legal obligation. That is why the Animal Party has submitted the motion of 50PLUS calling for this bill to be withdrawn and, once again, to go through all legal procedures in a legally careful manner. For how shocking is it to withdraw as a matter of urgency a democratic instrument such as the consultative referendum, to declare it non-referendable, also in the opinion of the Council of State, to motivate this insufficiently and to excess of disaster, and, as an expression of total contempt on the part of the citizens of the Netherlands, to fail to make all this properly visible to the citizens, by publishing it in the Official Journal? It's a big tear valley. It is a disgrace for democracy and a blow to the face of the citizens concerned who should represent this parliament. This is a pitch-black debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u146	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u147	We will continue with the second term on the part of the government. Before I give the floor to the Minister, I give the floor to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u148	I have been asked by the President to take back the term'sneak killer of democracy' with regard to the Minister of the Interior. The Minister of the Interior should not be called the "sneak killer of democracy" in this house. "Sneak killer of democracy" is not a parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u149	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps it would be a good idea for me to start by referring to the letter I sent you, and you yourself did so on the question put by Mr Van Raak. He asked how journalists could have been more aware of the letter I had sent you about informing the Council of State. As I indicated in my letter, that should not have happened. Even if it was in thirteen minutes, the Chamber should always be the first to be informed. To Mrs Özütok's question what I intend to do about it, the answer is that we have to make sure that our internal procedures are sharp on that point, so that the Chamber always gets the information first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u151	Mr Van Raak. At this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u152	Yes. I wonder what the press gets. What do journalists get? Does that include a package from the spindoctors, so the journalists know what to write down? I would also like to know who this decision is. Who decides this at the Ministry? Which gentleman or lady behind which desk says, "You know what, we're gonna tell the press and then the room will follow?"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u153	No, as I have already said, our internal procedures ensure that the Chamber is first informed. We will now ensure a tightening up so that this always happens. Of course, there are several people working at the Ministry. One has responsibility for sending to Parliament and the other has responsibility for informing the media. Of course, Mr Van Raak does not suggest that he underestimates the media. They are self-sufficient to form their judgment. They don't need spin doctors for that. I don't have one, by the way. Mr. Chairman. Having said that, I would like to move on to tonight's subject, the second deadline for the repeal law on the consultative referendum. Last week, we exchanged a great deal of information about this in the first term. I am also convinced that I cannot convince some people in this Chamber. Although Mr Van Raak would very much like to hear the whole argument from me one more time, I am sure he will call it a circular reasoning, no matter what I say. Nevertheless, I am, of course, prepared to repeat the reasoning. He asked for it. The cabinet considers that the consultative referendum does not lend itself to what the proponents of a referendum think can be used, namely to submit a subject after acceptance by both chambers to the electorate, in which they can answer the question only with a yes or a no and where they then have the impression that the result of the referendum should be taken over by the cabinet. That is not the case. I do not blame the voters for not being clear. We can only blame ourselves as politicians. If the government does the review and the Court looks into it, it will be accompanied by interpretations. Then it's not a clear yes or a clear no. That too cannot, of course, count on the understanding of the electorate. These are two fundamental problems which arise from an advisory referendum. Last time we also exchanged that parts of the referendum might be modified, but the fact that it is an advisory referendum leads to this. That is why the cabinet's proposal is to repeal this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u154	The minister says she doesn't want to follow the people's council because she doesn't agree. If you take the people's council seriously and try to follow it as closely as possible, there is of course no problem. Then there is no problem to abolish this crown jewel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u155	Mr Van Raak himself uses the term "as best he can." In this way, he actually indicates what I have just argued, namely that it does not have to be a clear yes or a no from the electorate, but that it should be interpreted in the event that a no, as the law states, should be reviewed. That interpretation was not requested. This interpretation is due to the fact that it is not a corrective referendum but an advisory one. After that, the review, which is something other than simply taking over the results, leads to considerations, interpretations and politics. That in itself, is the observation, can lead to alienation from the electorate and to misunderstandings among the people you ask to vote in the consultative referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u156	We have a referendum on the Intelligence and Security Services Act. Hundreds of thousands of people signed off on that. They are concerned with the dragnet function, a number of articles in that law. When people say it's a good law, the government can go through. If people say that they are specifically against that function, can there be any discussion in this Chamber on how to amend the law? Then the referendum worked beautifully, didn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u157	I understand very well that Mr Van Raak sees it that way. We will first work to ensure that people vote in the referendum on 21 March, as far as I am concerned, for the Wiv. This has been agreed in accordance with the current law. That referendum is just going to be held. I'm not gonna risk interpretations of a rash. For the time being, I am going to work to give the best possible explanation of the Wiv and why it is important. I hope that people will vote in favour of that law in the referendum on 21 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u158	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u159	So it is possible, but here the Minister is defending the abolition of the referendum a few weeks before the referendum. We conclude that it is possible, as long as the government wants and if parties are willing to listen. So I'm wondering, why now? Why don't you wait a minute? In the law there is also simply an evaluation period. We had one referendum. Apparently, the Minister didn't like it, at least the Prime Minister didn't. Why not wait and say: let's look at this, we've had one test now, let's do it two or maybe three times and then let's make a weighted judgment to see if it works or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u160	I really think it was Mr Van Raak who asked me during the BZK budget debate about what the proposal to withdraw the consultative referendum was about, because it was in the government agreement and the Chamber wanted to be able to judge the proposal as soon as possible. The proposal is in your Chamber. The cabinet started in the last week of October. Sometime in the last week before Christmas...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u161	That wasn't me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u162	Ah, it wasn't Mr. Van Raak. Then I take that back. At least someone asked me that question in the Chamber. So it didn't happen in haste, but it's obvious. If you have that intention and it is in the coalition agreement, I think it is right to clarify it immediately. That is why the proposal is now before us. It is up to you to judge this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u163	If the problem with the consultative referendum is that it is advisory, you can do all kinds of things. You can upgrade it by making it a truly binding referendum. You can just say as a room: we'll take it from here anyway. That's the least royal road, but it could have been. Why would you vote something that works... 4 million people and a lot of people are there, see the polls, happy not to keep and improve...................................................................................................... I don't understand that inherent logic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u164	I argued in the first term that you could amend this Advisory referendum Act on parts. For example, an entry threshold has been introduced during the parliamentary debate. You can raise it, lower it, or take it out. So on parts you might be able to tinker, but the point is that it is an advisory referendum. This brings me straight to Mr Bosma's first point. He argues: it is an advisory referendum, but if we are simply pretending to be correct here, then so can we. Well, I don't think so. It's an advisory referendum. This is how the law was passed, not as a corrective referendum. Those who claim that the consultative referendum is actually binding are saying something to them that simply isn't right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u165	Well, that's absolutely the case. That's also the least royal road. The royal route is simply to upgrade the binding referendum that you have by amending the law and to improve the looming mistakes that are in it, perhaps by improving the turnout threshold or whatever. But why something that people are satisfied with? See the opinion polls and see the fact that 90 seats here in the Lower House were election programme for the referendum and what satisfies a lot of people, throw them away, destroy them? What's the logic of that? Why not just keep it and improve it? That's the real royal road.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u166	On the first point, I would like to point out that the final objective of the correct binding referendum has in any case been lost for the time being, because the original legislative initiative proposal here, adopted by Mr Van Raak, did not succeed. This proposal has not been accepted by political parties. Then there is the consultative referendum. That's an imperfect instrument. Mr Bosma argues that everyone is satisfied with it. Well, that's not the case. Then you can try to make it better. I would argue that this is difficult because of its advisory nature. You could improve all that by making it corrective, but there is no support for that in this Chamber. In other words, if the instrument does not work properly, I think it is a testament to a healthy democracy that you dare to say that you are withdrawing it. Of course, we will continue to work together to strengthen and improve our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u167	What am I listening to? The minister's so spinning and bouncing, she's starting to look like Mark Rutte. I hear her say here that we should not go into the interpretation of the voter's voice. That's the problem with the referendum: you don't know why people voted anything. We must not interpret that, so we must abolish that referendum. But if anyone here is interpreting the voter's voice, and yet in a wrong way, then that is Mrs Ollongren, who interprets the voter's voice in the parliamentary elections on 15 March and spins it and wants to push through something that the vast majority of voters can't possibly want. How do you not want to interpret the vote of the electorate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u168	On one point, I agree with Mr Baudet, and that is that, in a sense, the voter's voice is also interpreted in cabinet formations, for example. But the difference with the consultative referendum is exactly what we were talking about last week. It is that voters go to the ballot box with a question on which a simple yes or no should be given and they rightly expect the outcome of the referendum to result from their yes or no. In the case of yes, that is also the case, but in the case of a no, that is not the case. This is inherent in the instrument of the consultative referendum as it was adopted here at the time. We've had an example of it. I know that Mr Baudet can speak very carefully on the subject of the referendum on the association agreement with Ukraine. The fact is that the inquiry that was carried out afterwards has shown that only a small minority of voters actually thought it was a suitable subject for a referendum and that at the same time a large majority of those who had or had not voted did agree that the outcome should be followed. So that is twice a disappointment on the part of the electorate, twice an expectation that is not fulfilled by politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u169	That is also something that should be taken very seriously by politics. It is a serious scandal that Mark Rutte passed that horrible association agreement. But you're not going into my point. You say that the voter must say 'yes' or 'no' in a referendum. The voter must also say "yes" or "no" in a general election. Then he must say 'yes' to one party and say 'no' to all the other parties. So the whole argument, that it's a binary choice, that it's a specific choice and that you have to interpret it, just doesn't work. We always interpret the vote of the electorate, whether it is a referendum or a general election.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u170	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll continue my reply, if that's all right with you. A number of Members raised a question about the disclosure of documents. It is, of course, important that the documents for the Chamber are made available immediately. So that's the bill and the documents behind it. And all the documents, including this bill, have been actively made public. All the pieces have been sent to the Chamber. All documents can also be found on the website of the Council of State. They've been made available for inspection. So there are many ways of making this public, as is always the case with legislative proposals. I would like to say a little more about this later, because a motion has also been tabled. Mr Baudet spoke specifically about retroactivity. He just argued that retroactive force is very exceptional and he also gave an example in which we would change speed on the highway. I think it is really important that it is clear here today, for the Minutes but also for everyone who is attending today's debate, that retroactivity is a regular possibility for the legislator. This means that the legal effects provided for by the law have been taken into account from an earlier point of view. So the possibility of retroactive effect is included in the rules for legislation. It is also the case to remove the concerns which have arisen from Mr Baudet's remark that, if they are burdensome regulations, there can be no retroactive granting except in exceptional cases. So that's not gonna happen. But it's a perfectly normal way of working. I can give you many examples of retroactive laws, which have also recently been adopted in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u171	That's not the point. You're missing the point. The point is not that you could or could not have retroactive effect in a law, the point is that a law can only have retroactive effect once that law has entered into force. And the whole clue of the Advisory referendum Act is that it suspends the entry into force of a law, postpones it, temporarily freezes it. Therefore, the retroactive effect of the repeal law is not achieved at all, because the Advisory referendum Act under Article 8 is preventing it. So what's happening here is state vandalism. What is happening here is, in fact, no different from a coup d'état being committed. The law, the existing procedures, the existing law is simply set aside in a shameful way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u172	Mr. Chairman. Last week, your Chamber asked for further clarification from the Council of State, including on this point. After some consultation, we are willing to do so, and I am very glad that we have done so. The Council of State has written an information report in which they are also crystal clear about this. Under the heading "The autonomy of the later legislator" it says: "This law is not a law with a legally higher status than other laws." That is an important starting point. The Chamber must be aware of that. So this Chamber can overrule old legislation with new legislation, so to speak. That's exactly what's happening here. The Council of State had already supported that. The cabinet has chosen the royal route for this purpose. I call it writing with open sights, the repeal law, non-referendibility and retroactive force. It has chosen to settle that legally neatly, along the royal road. No tricks are being applied. It's not careless. It is transparent and it is supported by our High College of State, which has explained this once again in this piece. So I am really far from saying that it would not be careful or that it would not be in accordance with our normal practice of legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u173	Can the Minister specify in what sense or what phrases in the opinion of the Council of State she is now quoting be taken into consideration as to the suspensive effect under Article 8 of the Wrr?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u174	That is quite simple, I say to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u175	What sentences?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u176	No, the Minister is speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u177	Article 8 of the Consultative referendum Act is no longer valid at the time when the legislator, therefore, also your Chamber and Parliament as a whole ratify it by a signature and a contradiction at the time of the entry into force of the new legislation. That is the autonomy of later legislation. That is an important starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u178	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u179	I note that the Minister does not answer my question. Yes, the opinion of the Council of State deals with the retroactivity element of the repeal law. But the point is: that repeal law cannot enter into force at all as long as it is not published in the Official Journal, and the publication in the Official Journal is blocked by Article 8 of the Wrr. In other words, the Minister's reasoning, as well as the reasoning of the Council of State, does not go into the point I am making here. Once again, I would like to ask the question: what is the Council of State going to do, according to Mrs Ollongren, about the suspensive effect of Article 8 of the Wrr?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u180	The answer is: on page 5.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u181	Can the Minister read out the phrases that relate to that? 'Cause it's not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u182	I could do that, but I refer Mr Baudet to page 5. It's in the second and third paragraphs. It's a few sentences. For ease of reference I refer to the whole page.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u183	That advice was e-mailed around, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u184	I read it very well, Madam President. It's not there. It doesn't make any sense what the Minister says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u185	It's right there. Again, I'd be happy to read it to you. It says: "Attributed to the Wrr, it is that the procedural rules contained in Article 8 (...) already bind legal effects to laws once they have been ratified." It also states that these procedural requirements are eliminated at the earliest possible time. The second paragraph on page 5 of the report, which is perhaps even more important, underpins this legal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u186	When I look at the additional information we have received from the Council of State and the reasons and final opinion of the Council of State, I see that it says: 'The structure for this purpose contained in the legislative proposal is considered by the Section', i.e. the Council of State 'effective in the legal sense'. It says "legally effective." Doesn't that just mean the Minister gets away with it? It doesn't say it's waterproof. It doesn't say it's made of reinforced concrete. It's only effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u187	I would like to debate the legislative proposal rather than the opinion of the Council of State, but Mr Bosma is asking for it. I think that the Council of State makes it very clear on two points. He says it's legally sound. That's how I interpret it. The Council of State says it's legally effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u188	"Effective" is something other than "equal."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u189	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u190	The Council of State remains silent on the issue of political judgment. I think that is also right, because we are not asking the Council of State to do so. The political judgment is reached here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u191	That makes sense. They also say that it is not a legal debate but a political debate. Well, that's convenient, because we're from politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u192	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u193	But when I hear the Minister say that the Council of State calls it sound, I say: no, the Council of State does not call it proper at all. The Council of State only says "in a legal sense effectively." So it meets its purpose. You're getting away with it. It says "legally effective." So it is not at all the case that the Council of State, our highest court, cancels this idea of the minister and says: it is fine. It's only effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u194	Mr Bosma is asking me for an opinion on the terminology of the Council of State. It does say: it is legally effective. I explain that I consider the now more detailed explanation by the Council of State, which ends in the qualification 'legally effective', as a basis. In fact, the Council of State says that it is better to do so than under the procedure we described then, namely that you could only rely on the urgency procedure. You ask me to qualify the term 'legally effective'. I have called it'suitable' and'supporting the legal basis', but the final political judgment is obviously up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u195	Finally, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u196	It's not solid, it's effective at best. That is something fundamentally different. Effective is, you get away with it. Effective is: mwah, whatever. That means it's basically substantiated, but it's not. I think it is a bad thing that the Minister of the Interior is doing so with this piece of information from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u197	Maybe I can respond to that, Mr President. Just in the interrupting debate with Mr Baudet, I also referred to the fact that the Council of State says: remember, the autonomy of the later legislator applies! That is an important starting point. That is what the Council of State, in a way, is giving to this Chamber. They say: that is a fundamental democratic achievement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u198	I'm just reading the advice a little differently from the Minister. Whether that's a solid basis for her policy? I didn't see that! I can see the Council of State is in his stomach with it. The Minister decides to make a law that does not make them referendable, while the law contains a list of what is not referendable. This law isn't there. The Minister has invented a legal trick and the Council of State says that it is effective in the legal sense. In other words, the Minister gets away with it. A lot of other state lawyers call it "legal magic." And then what happens? The Council of State says: you know what, we leave it to the House of Representatives, and whether it is desirable that a referendum on the repeal law should not be held is a political question. So I do not read this as a sound legal basis. The Council of State puts the ball back here in this Chamber and says: you can find one and you can find the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u199	I hear Mr Van Raak gives his interpretation of the opinion of the Council of State. For me, it is relevant that I have opted for a justification and, as usual, have checked with the Council of State. The Council of State had already argued in the first instance that this was legally effective and has also, in the second instance, argued quite extensively that it is important to respect the autonomy of the later legislator. The Council mentions even more than the legal effectiveness initially taken into account in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u200	That is a very general remark from the Council of State. I get that. That is quite logical, because otherwise Parliament could be closed. But if the Minister here in this Parliament says in public that the Council of State says it is well-founded, I dare to question that seriously, also with a view to dealing with the other side of the Senate. I do not think that "legally effective" can be translated with "equal justification." We are not going to get out of that tonight, but I think the Minister here in the Senate who always thinks that the political primacy lies with the House of Representatives, except when it comes to state law, is still getting a lot of work done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u201	We'll see!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u202	Is the Minister aware that a law will not enter into force until it has been published in the Official Journal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u203	I am aware that laws must be published in the Official Journal, but I have just explained to Mr Baudet, at least through the President, that there are different ways of bringing them into force. Here we have chosen to work with retroactive effect, one of the three options available to us and a common way. In the last period alone, eight laws have been passed retroactively by your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u204	My question is not about retroactivity. Is the Minister aware that laws can only enter into force after they have been published in the Official Journal? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u205	With retroactive effect, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u206	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u207	So if a law hasn't been published in the Official Journal yet, it doesn't apply. If there is another law preventing a new law from being published in the Official Journal, that is what the Wrr is doing, then the repeal law cannot enter into force. So that whole retroactivity doesn't come into the picture at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u208	I have tried a number of times to explain to Mr Baudet that retroactivity is a common way of introducing legislation. This means that the retroactive effect gives effect to the law before the publication was in the Official Journal. That is the whole idea of retroactivity. Mr Baudet's reasoning that another law is still valid at that time is incorrect. He can't agree, but what I'm saying is legal. He's just wrong about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u209	I didn't really intend to interfere in an interruption, but now I think the term 'legally effective' is being made a little thicker than it is as an ice layer. I was also surprised by that qualification. In my view, nothing else can be read in this: this proposed course of action achieves the objective that is being pursued, point. So that doesn't mean it's a solid foundation. This does not mean that it is a sound legal basis, but it is an effective legal basis. That nourishes my objection to the choice that has been made. According to the existing legislation, I ask the Minister to reflect on this for a while, and the Dutch citizens may assume that they have the right to request a referendum, because they still have the temporary referendum law to deal with. How long do Dutch citizens have that right, if that is cut off at the time when this law has the contradiction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u210	The bill provides for a transitional provision. If the two stages have already been completed, the law provides that that referendum will still be held. This does not apply to any other initiatives that are not yet fully implemented. It is precisely because Mr Bishop is still asking questions that I would ask him to look again at the information he has received from the Council of State today. Although we may continue to disagree on the term 'legally effective', the Council of State has not given any advice to support that legally. In information, the Council of State points out that we have done even more than was strictly necessary in law. They say: with retroactive effect, the non-referenceability was actually already legally regulated. That is why they say: in the light of the above, strictly legal inclusion of Article V is unnecessary. That is why I would like to say that we have provided a sound legal basis. I feel supported in this by the reasoning of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u211	As far as I'm concerned, the Minister is free to do that. I can't read that in there. I have also taken that advice from the Council of State to heart. I've seen that more like sticking plasters, sticking tires, sticking holes so that the band stays whole and can stay pumped up. That's more like the image that appeared to me. Returning to the rights of citizens. An arrangement has now been made: if these two phases have been completed, then yes. If, in the run-up to this process, initiatives are still being taken to hold a referendum, on the basis of which an initiative could be cut off at the time it is taken? That's not a trustworthy government, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u212	There is a transitional arrangement, which, in my opinion, does justice to initiatives which have already reached full maturity. We didn't have to do that. In an earlier proposal, when it was about the temporary law on the consultative referendum, there was no choice. Then there would have been a much more limited transitional arrangement. This transitional arrangement is therefore wide open. I would like to point out to Mr Bishop that if the legislator intends to repeal a law, then of course, on the one hand, it is necessary to take current cases into account. That's what's gonna happen. On the other hand, however, the intention, if endorsed by both Chambers, leads to that possibility no longer exists. It is therefore desirable to clarify any plans to request consultative referenda. Because it does mean that it won't be possible anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u213	Thus, the Minister implicitly says, or indeed explicitly, that the entry into force of this suspensive law has already become effective. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u214	Of course, I do not want to anticipate the parliamentary debate. Here we are in the second term. I'm assuming it's going to be quick in this Chamber, but after that, it's up to the First Chamber. I'll wait and see what she's planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u215	Mr Baudet, you've just been here. Do you have another question that has remained?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u216	Sure. I insist that this subject be discussed in depth, because this is extremely important. There is a quasi-state grip here and this really needs to come to light very clearly. Article 88 of the Constitution, is the Minister aware of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u217	I'm familiar with the whole Constitution, Mr. Baudet. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u218	Well, that's pretty important. Article 88 states that laws enter into force in that country only after they have been published and Article 3 of the Publication Act provides that such publication is to be made through the Official Journal. In other words, laws have no validity until they are published. Mrs Ollongren has just said that it has happened more often that a law is already in force at the time when the counter-sign is set up and thus before the law is published. That's never happened before. This is fundamentally incompatible with the most fundamental principles of our rule of law. The idea that Mrs Ollengren has that is retroactive is totally incorrect. That is not the point of retroactive effect at all. Of course, there are all kinds of laws with retroactive effect. This is about laws that would enter into force before they enter into force. That is not possible, that is unconstitutional, that is fundamentally incompatible with our Constitution and contrary to Article 3 of the Publication Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u219	You've made your point. The comment about publishing in the Official Journal has already been made a few times, including by Mr Jetten, I think. I suggest that the Minister responds to that and goes on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u220	Maybe just one brief comment, just for the sake of clarity. A law applies from the moment of entry into force. When a law works, it depends on the chosen system of entry into force: immediate effect, delayed effect or retroactive effect. I'm not saying anything special about that. Mr. Chairman. I believe I have answered the questions, but of course I still have a number of motions. The first motion, the motion in part No. 13 by Mr Krol and others calls on the Government to withdraw the bill of withdrawal and to resume the procedure. This is reflected in the questions I have just answered about whether adequate publicity has been given and whether the procedures have been carefully followed. The answer to that is: yes, that has happened. There is an article 26 (2) of the Law on the Council of State, and I think it was Mr Baudet who pointed that out for the first time last week, and that was respected. You should know, though, I think it is okay to be transparent about this. That what is happening, and that is also the usual practice in legislation, is that the documents are being made public. They're sent to your room, all the pieces. They're being made available for inspection. They are also published on the website of the Council of State. Thus, in material terms, Article 26 (2) of the Council of State Act is complied with. Since 2010 this publication has been very rarely made through the Official Journal. The practice is that we mainly aim for material disclosure: transmission to the Chamber, publication on the website. We're doing these kind of announcements digitally now. That's the standing practice. That's what happened here, and that's why I'm not recommending this motion. The second motion, the motion in part No. 14, also by Mr Krol, deals with the Council of State. I must say that I really cast the appeal of this motion. The suggestion that the Council of State should not be independent is something I strongly disagree with. There are safeguards in the law that are aimed at the independence of individual members and state councils. Article 2 ensures, for example, that members are appointed for life. Article 5 shall ensure that the members do not engage in any relationship or ancillary relationship which is not in keeping with their independence. These guarantees are more than sufficient. That is why I strongly reject this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u221	The motion merely asks for additional guarantees to be given. With the motion, I do not want to say at all that the current procedure would be wrong. I'm just asking for extra guarantees. That's a perfectly normal question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u222	Additional guarantees are superfluous; this is more than sufficiently guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u223	Mr Van Raak, I see that you wish to interrupt, but this is about a motion by Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u224	Yeah, I know. But I would like to ask: isn't this a very small part of the Council of State itself? In its last annual report, the Council of State also devoted a great deal of time to the referendum, a law which was just adopted by the Second and the First Chambers, a law with contradiction. And yet the Council of State warns that the referendum is increasing the pressure on people and that this will lead to a failure in decision-making. There is even talk of a gradual dysfunction of the representative bodies. Those are very harsh judgments of the Council of State on a democratic principle that we have. Does this not make the Council of State unnecessarily vulnerable when it comes to giving its opinion on the same subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u225	I don't think so. Every now and then, at least once a year, the Council of State presents us with a number of important issues in its view. I think we should be pleased with a High College of State that does that. And I think that the advisory role of the Council of State when there is a legislative proposal is purely a matter of advising on the legislative proposal and is completely separate from an opinion given by the Council of State in an annual report or otherwise, just as the proposal of the Cabinet on the repeal law for the consultative referendum is separate from the findings or opinions of the Council of State on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u226	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u227	Yes. Then I come to the third motion, in part No. 15. It's Mr. Krol's. It asks for the repeal law to be sent to the Chamber only after the State Commission has completed its mission. In fact, we have already discussed this in the first period. Of course, the state committee has a broad mandate. I would like to point out, however, that the state committee in its problem assessment, which we have all been able to take note of, talks about the corrective referendum as an alternative correction mechanism in the legislative process. The Committee also discusses other issues, such as constitutional review. But the consultative referendum as such is not appointed by the state committee at all. So I see no reason to wait for the state committee, but I look forward to the state committee's report. For this reason, I also advise against the motion in part No. 15 by Mr Krol. Yes, and then the last motion filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u228	Yes. That's up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u229	Yes, it is indeed up to the Chamber to decide. I am beginning to get to know Mr Baudet a little bit, but this is the second time he has tabled such a motion. Well, we'll see. Mr President, all I have left is an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u230	Two amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u231	I think it is one amendment, because I thought the other two amendments had been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u232	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u233	This is the amendment on the part of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 11, member of Bishop. In fact, that is what we have just discussed with each other in the debate on the interruption. The amendment aims to ensure that all legislative proposals that have already been accepted are covered by the transitional regime. I have just argued that there is a large transitional regime in the bill. That's bigger than it was once before. That is why I do not recommend the adoption of this amendment. Mr President, that brings me to the end of the answer to the questions and the reactions to the motions and amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u234	Thank you. We have thus come to the end of the debate, at least almost. Mr Jetten has something else to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u235	I assume that we will be voting on the motion of censure tabled this evening anyway. There are also votes tomorrow because they did not go through today because of the funeral of former Prime Minister Lubbers. I believe that the debate here is now complete and all the groups know exactly what they are going to vote on. I would therefore ask that the votes on the motions, the amendments and the legislative proposal be included in all the votes tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u236	Mr. Chairman. We had the first term here last week. Then we talked a little back and forth. Eventually, the Minister helped us. The agreement is that we will vote on these motions and amendments on Thursday. That's the deal. Let's leave the deal anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u237	I look at what other people think of that. Mr. Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u238	Mr. Chairman. It was not clear before that we would also have a vote tomorrow. I think it makes sense to follow it. So I would like to join Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u239	Mr. Chairman. We have now had two moments at which we have been able to have this debate. This is the second term. It's really stupid that the coalition parties want to vote tomorrow. Let's just do it on Thursday. A day later, at least give it to the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u240	I don't see why we should vote tomorrow when we've agreed on Thursday. Does that have an interest in the legislative process or something? So if there's any way to explain that... When people make a request, I always try to accommodate it as much as possible, but then there must be a reason. If there's no reason, we'll just do it on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u241	Mr President, it is not customary to leave a motion of censure hanging over the market one night.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u242	It's not about that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u243	Just now about that motion of censure? Yeah, the rest can just standard Thursday, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u244	Deal's a deal. We're meeting on Thursday. Then we'll have to do it on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u245	Indeed, we are voting on amendments and motions for resolutions on Thursday. It is appropriate to make a ruling today on the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u246	Now that there is also an opportunity to vote tomorrow, the Christian Union can support Mr Jetten's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u247	Mr. Chairman. We agreed in the first time that we would vote on Thursday on the law and all the motions and amendments tabled. I think it's fine to hold onto that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u248	Mr President, support for Mr Jetten's practical proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u249	It's not a practical proposal. It's blackmail. It's outrageous! We agreed to this. Thursday there's a vote, not a day earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u250	Mr. Chairman. Perhaps we should open a third deadline, because I do not see the reason why we should suddenly vote tomorrow. So I would like a more detailed explanation, but I am going for Thursday for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u251	Let me first see if Mr Jetten will explain why he thinks that we should vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u252	Mr. Chairman. It was just a sincere question from me. When we discussed this with each other last Thursday, I think we were just voting on Tuesdays, as we always do. Then we said: we will continue the debate on Tuesday evening. So it seemed logical that we could not vote on Tuesday. We have moved the votes that were actually before today to tomorrow. Hence my sincere question: if we have all exchanged things now, and everyone knows how he is going to vote on the motions, the amendments and the bill, what will stop us from doing those votes tomorrow? That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u253	You also hold on to your request to vote tomorrow, having heard everything?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u254	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u255	Let me take a look at Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u256	Mr. Chairman. I have no need to make this a major case, but I do not think there is any reason to do it tomorrow either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u257	Mr President, I would like to make the request for a third term, or I think it would be wise to maintain what we had agreed, namely Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u258	Mr President, I support the request for a third period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u259	Yeah, this is getting a little chaotic, or at least, not yet. I give the floor to Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u260	Mr. Chairman. I believe that we have had fascinating debates over the last week and a half, and we have always tried to help each other to do this in an orderly way. If there really is such a huge need to vote on Thursday, then we will just vote on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-12.u261	That seems to me to be a good proposal. No, Mr Baudet, you don't have the floor. It has now been agreed that we will vote on the legislative proposal, the amendments and the motions, apart from yours, on Thursday. Shall I suspend for five minutes? Mr Krol needs ten minutes, I see. I shall suspend the sitting for ten minutes and then vote on Mr Baudet's motion.
