ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now turn to Mrs Dijksma of the Labour Party for her question about sperm banks that would be in the wrong with donor data for years. I call Mrs Dijksma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I just need to throw the cathedral half a meter down. I hope this doesn't go away from my time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u3	No, I'm not. That's special for people like you and me. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Again a serious subject. The law is clear: donor children are entitled to know who their father is. Last Saturday evening at Newsuur we saw a rather shocking imagination of reality. We have seen that sperm clinics refuse to cooperate in providing donor data, especially from children conceived for 2004. We have seen a Foundation of donor data on behalf of all of us that is supposed to make sure that this is going well, but it does not appear to be on top of it. We have also seen major errors in the implementation where children get the idea that the donor does not want contact, while reality is a whole different one. Mr President, my questions. First of all: was this known to the Ministry of VWS? If so, at what point has this been previously shared with the Chamber? Has the Ministry taken any action? My second question: has the Minister asked the Foundation for information on the research presented by Nieuwsuur, which would show that almost no clinic has transmitted the data requested? And if so, what is the answer? My third question is: why has the Foundation never engaged donor data in the inspection to extract any data? Then my next question. The broadcast shows that there are real mistakes. What does the Minister say about the quality of the Foundation's work? Is the Minister prepared to requisition the records of the clinics? And my final question is: how does the Minister guarantee that sperm clinics will comply with the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u5	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr President, thank you. I understand that this subject continues to cause a stir, especially with the children involved. One moment, Mr. Chairman, suddenly a table went up here. In all seriousness: knowing who you are descended from is extremely important for many children who have come into the world as a donor child. That is why the law was amended in 2004. Before that, there was an anonymous donation, but since then it has not been possible. At the time, in 2004, there was a transitional provision in the law, which refers to "semen clinics" which stated that all data from sperm clinics should be transferred to a foundation, the Foundation donor data artificial fertilization. In addition, the agreement has been made that is certainly so important that donor children who want to know what data are available and whether the donor concerned would like to make himself public can go to that foundation, that there is a request and that a donor who wants to remain anonymous is still asked the following question: there is a donor child who wants to know who he is descended from; is it okay to make that public? On that last point: we have known for some time that this agreement, not so much the transitional provision, has not been entirely correct. A number of clinics interpret that appointment in a different way. In addition, it is clear that not all clinics actually transferred the data to the foundation. We've known that since the 2016 inspection investigation. That was also shared with the Chamber at that time. My predecessor, Schippers, then called on donors from before 2004 to make themselves known and to leave anonymity in the interests of the children. An action plan was then drawn up. That action plan was also discussed in the Chamber. It says, for example, that agreements are made by clinics to also provide data from before 2004 as donor children banging on the door and saying: we would like to know who we are descending from. In addition, we are talking about working with a database called "Fiom" which is also funded so that donors can leave their DNA in Fiom's database and a match can actually be established. In short, a large number of actions have been put in place to remove donors from anonymity and to give donor children prior to 2004 the opportunity to know who they are descendants of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u7	It is of course very good that a number of actions have already taken place, but that broadcast shows that mistakes were still made in 2016. For example, letters from the foundation went to donor children saying "your donor doesn't need contact" while they found out through their own research that that was just not correct. So my question stands. Is it the case that this year's law of 2004 is being drafted significantly better than before? How does the Minister see that? Do all the clinics now cooperate in transferring archive data? And how can that be controlled? Otherwise it remains a kind of black box for us and we keep chasing the facts and we have to find out every time through incidents if that is all in order. So I would very much like to have a final state of affairs from the Minister or an update on how things stand now. If necessary, he could send that information to the Chamber by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u8	That seems to me to be a very practical proposal. The action plan, which is still my predecessor's, is in full swing at the moment. The types of problems you just mention are all invested in actions and are all being implemented at the moment. My impression is that progress is certainly being made on this. I also recognise the irregularities mentioned by Mrs Dijksma, but they are always the subject of the action plan. I would therefore like to tell her to send a letter in order to inform the Chamber properly about the latest state of play in the implementation of that action plan. On this basis, we may be able to hold further debates with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u9	First of all, thank you for the commitment of a letter. Could I expect that letter right after the spring recess? Then you'll have a few weeks. That should be possible. Then, somewhere in mid-March, April, we can discuss this matter again on the basis of the most up-to-date state of affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u10	I'd be fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mrs Dijksma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u12	I also value the terminology used: we are not talking about fathers but about sperm donors. I therefore believe that the Minister has indicated that correctly. One question remains, and it relates to the broadcast of Newsuur, in which it was absolutely stated that these clinics have broken the law. Can the Minister give us any colour on whether he thinks so too? If that is the case, then there should be some action. Moreover, I welcome the commitment of a stand-of-business letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u13	For the nuance, that's okay. I would also like to comment on this in the letter, but I will summarize it very briefly. The anonymity of 2004 could no longer be continued after 2004; that is what the law laid down in the basics. There was a transitional arrangement whereby all fertility clinics were deemed to transfer the data to the Foundation. That didn't happen in all cases. You could say that's contrary to that transitional provision. In addition, the following has been agreed. If a donor child from before 2004 wanted to know who the donor was, that question was always actually submitted even though donors would have been identified as anonymous............................................................................................................................................................................................................... That didn't always happen. That was just not part of the law, but part of the agreements that were made. So a little more nuance is definitely in place here. I would like to make that even more precise in that letter, because we have to be precise about this. It remains, of course, that it is a deep wish, and a very understandable wish, of donor children to absolutely want to know who they are descended from.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u14	This subject, of course, touches people at the heart of their lives...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u15	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u16	...so that's why it's so important that we're on top of that. I also hear the Minister confirm this, but I have not yet heard him specifically comment on the misleading information where clinics give a different picture of the donor's wish than is actually the case. So is that also part of the action plan? And if not, how does the Minister intend to address and take action on this complex issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u17	I do not accept the qualification in full, but I think you are referring to donors who have been identified as anonymous and who have signed a non-disclosure agreement immediately, and donors who have been identified as anonymous but have not declared "secretcy" to apply to them. Of course, you can't rewrite that last group, because you don't know who it is, but that first group is still traceable for the clinic. You shouldn't mix those groups with each other. When children come forward, you have to ask the first group whether they want to make themselves known. I think you mean that distinction. Yes, that distinction, that precision, is also in that action plan. Of course, we can take action on this first group. For donors who have become donors under the promise of anonymity before 2004, a change in the law cannot nullify that promise for a moment. That's not possible, and we shouldn't want to. There's no legal basis for that. But if that is not the case, you can certainly ask them the question again: "At the time you indicated that you wanted to be anonymous, but the children who came from it simply want to know who they came from. Wouldn't you be willing to do so many years after that?" That's a question you have to ask with force. This can also be based on the data available at the clinics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-13-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you.
