ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u1	Then we go to Mrs Westerveld's questions, on behalf of GroenLinks, about the news that the promised participation of students in the use of basic grant money remains out. The question is addressed to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media, who replaces the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. You're very welcome. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. When the basic grant was abolished, a number of promises were made to students. One: the loan conditions for students would remain favourable. Two: universities and colleges would already invest EUR 600 million extra in improving the quality of education. Three: students would take part in deciding how to spend this money. All these promises have not been fulfilled. Broken promise one: this cabinet increases student interest against the appointments. Indeed, exactly a week ago, the House of Representatives voted in favour of an increase in student interest rates. The opposition parties didn't want this, the students didn't want it, and even Minister Van Engelshoven admitted that there was no direct need for it, but by the smallest possible majority, students' student debt was increased by thousands of euros. Broken promise two: universities and colleges promised to invest heavily, but out of half of the 600 million is unclear whether it went to education. That is not a conclusion from GroenLinks, but a conclusion from the Court of Auditors. Now it appears that the third promise has also been violated. Students are not always able to determine where the money from abolishing the basic grant is invested, whereas that was the agreement. Student organisation ISO is now calling the bell, but we have already heard signals that students are not sufficiently involved, especially in the colleges of applied sciences. A number of questions to the Minister. Is it true that students are not properly involved? Is it true that students are put under pressure of time and that students in faculty councils or district councils in particular do not receive sufficient support? Does the Minister agree with GroenLinks that participation should be better organised? And is the Minister still prepared to guarantee the position of participation in making the agreements on this money legally?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mrs Westerveld for her questions on the participation of students in the use of the student advance funds. That is a subject that is very close to her and her group. I am replacing my colleague, Van Engelshoven, who for the first time fell through the flu for one day. She hopes to be back tomorrow. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Westerveld and the Chamber are aware that in April the agreement was concluded by five parties, including ISO, but also by the Association of High Schools, the VSNU, the LSVb and the Ministry of Education. It is true that agreement has been reached on the way in which participation, including students, will be involved in the use of these funds. ISO is therefore an integral part of this. It's a good thing they're holding the finger on the wrist. The inventory they have made in the report can therefore also be shared in the administrative consultations between the signatories to this agreement. That's the royal way to share these kinds of findings. These are the first months of implementation of the agreement. At the moment, it is far too early to draw all kinds of conclusions, let alone call it "broken promises." The institutions are still preparing the plans. Once these plans have been made, the NVAO will look into them as agreed. He's gonna have to make a judgment. One of the criteria it will apply is whether participation is sufficiently involved in drawing up these plans. This will ultimately determine the final assessment of the plans. At the very end of the journey, as agreed with ISO, the Minister of OCW is in a position to assess whether the plans comply with what has been agreed. If this is not the case, so if the involvement of students has been insufficient, a negative decision can be taken on the relevant institutional plans. Those are the arrangements made. If, in these first few months, it appears that things are not quite as they should have been done, this should be discussed with the parties with whom the agreements have been made. That's the way to go. We must then see whether we can find the right way forward, because these are the agreements that have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u5	The Minister also has two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u6	I thank the Minister for his response, but I am not quite satisfied yet. If participation does not have a strong position, it is very difficult to discuss promises that are not being kept there. The students are in that position. The Minister tells GroenLinks that it is too early to draw conclusions, but how can it be that Minister Van Engelshoven sent a letter to the First Chamber last Friday, stating that she is satisfied with the quality agreements, and that she also has the impression that they are being respected? How is that consistent with the conclusions of the ISO in this report? Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to make agreements with the universities and, above all, with the colleges of higher education on facilitating student participation. 'Cause it's not the first time students have been calling our doorbells and saying they don't get very much support. Can the Minister above all agree on the time and support they receive? For it is very difficult for students to properly assess the plans of a board, which often has dozens of employees, and thus to have real participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u7	I indicated that it is too early to draw final conclusions, because this is a path that is still in full swing and is only going on for a few months. Hard agreements have been made as to how this process will be organised and what the involvement of students will be in the use of the funds we have started to call study advance funds. So the moment it doesn't happen as agreed and will eventually be submitted to the NVAO, a negative opinion will be reached. This ultimately has consequences for the opinion that will be expressed in the end by the minister of OCW on these plans. That simply means that those plans are not going to be approved. So one will and must involve the students in the participation. If that trajectory turns out that it may not go quite as it should in several places, you can even imagine something in such a first year, then it is the royal way that it will be discussed in the administrative consultation involving all signatories of the plans. That's where the Ministry is. There's the Association of Colleges. There's the VSNU. There is also the other student organisation, the LSVb. Then we can discuss the matter with each other and we can see what is needed if there is to be a push here and there. That is what I believe should be happening, and that is how we will promote it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mrs Westerveld, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u9	Hard appointments may have been made, but if the students simply don't have a strong position, then those hard appointments aren't very helpful. I would also like to tell the Minister that students have been calling the bell before because they believe that a large part of the pre-investment did not come to the right place. That was never listened to either. The Court then finds the same. The students should be taken seriously much sooner. GroenLinks believes that we should keep our promises, that this cabinet is responsible and that we should fix broken promises. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, students should have much more to say. In order to give them that say, I would like to make a suggestion to the Minister. Is the Minister prepared to examine whether we can give students the right to actually adapt, as we have the right of amendment in the House of Representatives? Is that possible? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we really should give students the confidence and really give them something to say about money coming from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u10	The agreement concluded in April, which includes the signatures of the five parties I have just mentioned, regulates the right of participation and consent of the students, including when it comes to the use of resources. The NVAO looks at it and takes that aspect into account in the judgment, and finally the minister of OCW makes an assessment of it. So it's really hard to agree on. They have that position and it's really weird to give them something they already have and what they just have to put into practice. If a push is needed, this can be discussed in the appropriate places. And that's what we're going to promote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Students could take part in deciding what the money is spent on. So not only be involved, but also decide. In practice, for example, we see at the UvA that this does not happen and that when it comes to decision-making, student participation is simply passed. On 1 January 2019, the institutions and their participation councils should have the plans in place. The ISO shows that a large part of the deadline is not going to be met and that if they do, participation will be put under pressure to be ready before that date. Will the Minister actually appeal to the institutions that are already breaking agreements, not wait for the NVAO, but maintain agreements that are now being broken, and will sanctions be applied?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u13	In my opinion, a very clear route has been agreed, in which the NVAO must give its opinion on these plans. One of the criteria by which these plans will be assessed is whether the students are as involved as was agreed. No plans have yet been assessed by the NVAO. This will happen in spring 2019. The first plans will then be assessed and this will continue in the calendar year, because of course there is quite a lot to look at. This is therefore also an absolute criterion for looking at these plans and assessing the involvement of students. I have indicated to you that the Minister of OCW, my colleague Mr Van Engelshoven, will then be in a position to give an opinion on this too. So we made really good deals about it. The signatures are underneath. That must now be put into practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u14	Since the introduction of Jesse Klaver's lending system, promises about investment have been broken, participation has been ignored and.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. And I would like to ask the Minister how he, but at all, any party that has ever agreed to the loan system, such as VVD, GroenLinks, PvdA and D66, can ever look students in the eye again now that appointment by appointment is violated, both by the educational institutions and by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u15	I repeat what I have just said to Mrs Westerveld, namely that it is really too early to take this kind of qualifications in the mouth and make this kind of judgement when a journey is still running. And part of the trajectory hasn't even started because the plans aren't there yet, as I just said, and we're waiting for the NVAO's judgements. Eventually, the Minister will also give an opinion. I think that we are doing justice to both the positions of all those involved, but also to the commitments made, if we simply stick to their implementation. Then there will come a moment when we will draw final conclusions. I do not know whether that will be the words that Mr Futselaar has now put in his mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u16	In October of this year, the Minister promised us that the reports of the General Court would be shared with participation at institutional level. This has not yet been done, it appears on various fronts on different institutions. And we ask the Minister: what is the Minister really going to do to ensure that at least that level playing field gets there? Because if you don't know what your participation is about, then of course it's very difficult to go straight into that process. The Minister would also inform us about these lessons in spring 2019. How is the Minister going to guarantee that these students are really involved in that process?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u17	The students are very strongly involved in this process. Their signature is even under that agreement which I have already referred to twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u18	You could say the students are ringing the bell too soon, and we can't draw any conclusions yet. And that's right, because there are big differences. Maastricht University and Leiden University are engaged in processes that resemble something. The UvA was also mentioned: we as a Chamber have great concerns about this. But they are also early enough, in the sense that you can now do something to push those involved in all those talks that are already going on: this is what the Minister expects them to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u19	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u20	Is this Minister prepared to explain once again what the rules of the game are before they conclude the agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u21	The five parties that have signed that agreement come together at regular intervals. They will be reunited in the near future as well. Then it is very nice that the parties themselves share with the others their observations and their inventories as well. And then we can talk about this together. In doing so, my colleague responsible for this portfolio will, of course, also have her input on what might be needed to get things moving again, at least if necessary. But we must also be careful not to jump to conclusions on a path that is still in full swing and where not even everyone has yet been put in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u22	There's gonna be a lot of money for higher education. In any case, that is a fine observation; we agree on that. For D66, it has always been crucial that teachers and students take part in deciding where that money is going. It doesn't seem to be like that everywhere right now. Here's what I'm asking the Minister. Can we see here and now and also make the agreement with each other that if there is no good participation, there will be no money either?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u23	I think I just made that clear. What if that turns out to be the case? This will then be the first to emerge from the NVAO's assessment of the plans, but also from the opinion that the Minister of OCW will have to give. If this participation has not been in order, and that is one of the criteria, then the plan is insufficient and there will be no money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-6.u24	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this oral Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. and then we shall vote.
