ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, Mrs Buitenweg's question on behalf of GroenLinks to the Minister for Justice and Security on the increase in anti-Semitism in the European Union. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Yesterday, one of the most extensive investigations into anti-Semitism in Europe was presented by the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights. An important outcome is that anti-Semitism is growing, as is racism, by the way, and intolerance towards Muslims. Anti-Semitism is growing in Europe and the Netherlands, and not enough is being said about it. As a responder said, it seems as if the Netherlands is anti-Semitism tired, not standing tall, while human rights are being violated. Many of the people questioned said they were afraid to wear a stick or a necklace with a david star. They avoid Jewish events or places. They cannot live their own identity as they themselves consider it important and are hindered in their freedom. That is unacceptable. The participants in the study see that the Dutch government is taking measures. That is good, but 79% consider the measures to be inefficient and insufficient. How does the Minister see that? How does he want to engage with the Jewish community, organizations and individuals to reverse the trend? We also see that few people report serious incidents to the police. Although the Netherlands scores relatively well compared to other countries, if more than 70% do not go to the police because they think it is pointless or because they fear the reaction of the police, we have a very big problem. How does the Minister intend to increase the willingness to report? Anti-Semitism must be condemned in the strongest terms, first and foremost by the EU, Heads of State or Government. That was in the motion the Chamber adopted last November. The cabinet is called upon to speak openly and in bilateral contacts firmly against statements made by government leaders contributing to growing anti-Semitism. My supplementary question to the Minister is: can he indicate how this motion has been implemented so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. Hanukkah is the Jewish celebration of the lights, which was celebrated last week. The symbolic theme of Hanukkah is also light in the darkness. On the first evening I had the honour to address the Amsterdam Jewish community in the Raw Aron Schuster Synagogue. I said out loud that it was a sad honour, as I had to speak there about the increased feelings of insecurity in the Jewish community these days, as reported by Mrs Buitenweg. Afterwards a rabbi came to me, saying: it is good that you say it out loud here, in our community, because that also gives us more courage. That is precisely what I think is first and foremost about. We politicians must constantly speak out against anti-Semitism. If so many people do not feel safe, we should simply stand for it. Last Friday, at the closed presentation of the report to the European Council of Justice Ministers, I made the same appeal and said that we, as ministers, should not just say that we are going to take action, but that we should also express our opinion in public. That is clearly exactly what one of the respondents is saying about, namely that it seems as if one is tired of anti-Semitism. In recent times, I've been to four synagogues and a Jewish daycare center, to see how security is, but also how the people there are. I will continue with the Jewish organizations on 4 February to see how we can shape and shape this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u5	I hear a number of things. The Minister says: I think it is very important and I am going to talk to the Jewish organizations. He doesn't say much about what he wants to do about it. Some of my specific questions were about that. I hope he will get back to that as soon as possible, because the low willingness to report it to the police is a real concern. I would like to ask whether among the 16,000 cases that have recently been dismissed there are also hate crimes, because if they are, that would send a very bad signal. The Minister says it is important for Heads of State or Government and ministers to insist on anti-Semitism. At the same time, I had a very specific question about a motion which is very controversial here. Minister Blok was against the fact that the Netherlands would continue to speak out against government leaders who contributed to growing anti-Semitism. It is precisely because he opposed it that my specific question to the government is the following. Can the Minister indicate how this motion, which has received a majority here, has been implemented so far? I also have a question about what the Minister said about the feelings of insecurity. That's what the investigation was about. But do we also have any more information on actual insecurity? We also see that there is a growing problem and then it is also important that we have actually substantiated it. Then finally, because I see I have to finish. 30% of Jews in the Netherlands are considering emigrating. That is a huge number and that has to do with the expressions on the Internet but also in public space. How does the Minister intend to reverse this? What kind of agenda does he have in his head for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u6	In fact, Mrs Buitenweg's first and last point is what we are going to do in concrete terms to increase those feelings of security. I myself have also checked whether we are doing enough to ensure that we are safe. It is the local authorities that determine that, but I also want to look at this myself; in any case, local, in cities such as Rotterdam and Naarden, is really working on it. That's one thing. Then the second thing and before that I want to talk to the Jewish community. I said in the synagogue: I hate that you are afraid to express yourself, and I hope you will at least do so to me and/or the police. I think we should see if we can get the willingness to report back in a way that they still feel safe. In particular, I would also like to talk to the Jewish community itself about how we can shape that well. Last Friday, in the presence of European ministers with ministers from all the European Member States, I made myself very clear. Since anti-Semitism is, of course, a very nasty phenomenon, I am convinced that the cabinet will have to give every form and expression to its fight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u7	Finally, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u8	Then I'll finish with the request for another letter. I also understand that it was partly about Mr Blok's area, but it is about carrying out a motion which was controversial with the Minister and which has something to do with you saying against anti-Semitism on a permanent basis. I propose that a letter be sent from the cabinet to see how it has carried out or is going to carry out this motion so far. Then I look forward to a letter as soon as the Minister's consultation has taken place. I understand that he wants to do so in consultation with the Jewish community, but then I look forward to a report. Finally, I should like to say something about the actual insecurity. This applies for example around the synagogue but it also applies on an individual level, so much smaller, namely the dare to wear a yarmulke or a david star...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u9	You really need to finish, or else it's not fair to others.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u10	... and it is also our joint responsibility that they can do so safely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u11	Then I will go to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u12	It was a few weeks ago that Mr Yeşilgöz and I had a conversation with young people in Amsterdam. What really struck me was that a younger person said: anti-Semitism is terrible and that is one thing, but the silence of bystanders is actually worse. We can't be silent. Even as a government, we must not remain silent and the Minister must not remain silent. If, for example, we hear in a round table that a lot of local authorities are embarrassed and clumsy and that, for example, an anti-Israeli demonstration does not take account of the start of a synagogue, then I would ask the Minister not only to talk to the Jewish community but also to municipalities about how they can provide security for the local Jewish community, because there too there is a great deal of embarrassment. Is the Minister prepared to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u13	Sure. I've had that kind of conversation a few times. But I'm sure I'm willing to do more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u14	In the Qur'an, Sura 8, verse 60, we can read that it is a mission for all Muslims to teach all unbelievers from an Islamic perspective that Islam should be feared. So should there be Islamophobia, which Mrs Buitenweg mentioned, that is an assignment from the Koran. But there are still a whole number of other............................................................................................................................................................................... Anti-Semitism. Islam is the only institutionalized form of anti-Semitism in the Netherlands. Is the Minister prepared to state explicitly in talks with the Jewish organizations that he is going to do something about Islamic institutionalized anti-Semitism and to protect the Jews in the Netherlands against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u15	I discuss with the Jewish organizations the problem of anti-Semitism in a broad sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u16	Those who read the research and take the results of it can only be surprised that some time ago in this Chamber there were groups who voted against a motion which instructed the cabinet to follow the international definition of anti-Semitism. That may give rise to questions, but I am not on that occasion. That motion was finally adopted. I would like to ask the Minister how this motion will play a role in his approach to the fight against anti-Semitism.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u17	I have already stated literally when the motion was tabled that the content of that motion will play a role in the policy of the prosecutor and the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u18	And you're going to inform the Chamber about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u19	Fine. I think it's good to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u20	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u21	We too are shocked by the report. Everyone must be able to be visible themselves in the Netherlands. I know this is the Minister of Justice and Security, but it starts with education and also education. I would like to ask the Minister whether he would also like to discuss this specific subject with his colleagues in Education to see what we can do here in relation to information and education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u22	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u23	They're really shocking figures about anti-Semitism. Unfortunately, we've been seeing that for a long time. That is why the VVD and the Christian Union are coming up shortly with an initiative paper. The European Council called on all European countries to come up with a national programme to combat anti-Semitism. As Mr Bishop has just pointed out, the Chamber has previously adopted a motion which embraces an international definition of anti-Semitism. Unfortunately, it has not been supported by all the parties in this Chamber. But of course it starts with that: recognizing with each other that there is anti-Semitism. The question to the Minister is: what is he going to do to get other European countries to embrace that international definition? And what is he going to do to encourage other countries to follow up on this European call for a national programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u24	As I said, I made it very clear in the European Council of Ministers last Friday that we should speak out loud against anti-Semitism. I said it last Monday on the occasion of 70 years of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u25	Perhaps you could speak a little more in the microphone, because you are almost unheard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u26	Is that better? Okay. Bit of a country singer's attitude, chairman, but okay. In any case, I said this last Monday at a conference on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. That was also an international company. That's what I'm saying. I keep putting it out everywhere, and I would hope, Mr President, that the 150 Members of Parliament, including yourself, will do exactly the same. Because it's like I said in another language: frappez toujours.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-5.u27	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the oral questions. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments. Then we'll vote.
