ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the influx of 60-plussers into the WIA. I would like to welcome the Minister. I understood that he was also in legal treatment this morning, so welcome back! We have seven speakers for this debate. I am the first to give the floor to the applicant for this debate, Mrs Corrie van Brenn. It will speak on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This debate is indeed about 60-plussers who become disabled. Influx into the WIA is three times higher in the age group 60-plus than in other age groups. The conclusion of the UWV was that this is likely to be due to the disappearance of the FAT forms and the longer and longer working. We also see people trying to keep it up to the age of 65. However, in the category "longer working until 67" the mantra of this cabinet.... also states that the rate of influx into the WIA in 2025 will be still 10% higher than in 2016. I really think that's a very cautious estimate. The UWV would do an investigation. Let me take a look at the Minister: when will that be completed? Can we receive the complete report from the UWV? And shouldn't the Minister return to this path of ruin? We see the consequences now, while people don't even work until they're 67 or more. We are the only country in the EU in which a youngster who is starting to work now has no idea when he can stop, because it is linked to higher life expectancy. We have no idea when they're gonna stop. That's crazy, isn't it? We see that these consequences are there, and we're also getting this from the Arbourts. The arborists have sent out the signal that it can't go on like this. The FNV calls for people on their knees to go to the finish line and some people don't make it. That is why I ask the Minister: is it not possible to reconsider this? The Minister can say that we are not talking about this, because employers and employees are about sustainable employability. That's true, but you're an employer yourself. You can play a stimulating role yourself. We are thinking of cost reduction measures, training and personal guidance to work. How is the Minister going to shape and stimulate sustainable employability? Mr. Chairman. You will not blame us, but the position '65 must remain 65' is a mantra that 50PLUS would like to repeat here again. That's a great age to stop working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. Mr Van Kent has the floor now. He shall speak on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u4	Thank you, Madam President. If they are exhausted physically after 45 years of hard work, many workers still have to work for many years. The abolition of the Vulnerable Schemes and the extremely rapid increase in the AOW age mean that more and more workers are in great difficulty, work longer and sometimes work longer while it is physically irresponsible. When we look at the facts, it is not surprising that more 60+ people become disabled and have to claim disability benefits. According to the UWV, the chances of becoming disabled for people over 55 years of age are about ten times greater than for workers under 25. Over the past two years, we will see an increase of almost 50,000 people dependent on disability benefits. The Metal and Technics Pension Fund sees a doubling of the number of new disabled persons. The Health and Welfare Pension Fund sees a 20% higher inflow into disability schemes. And what does this minister do? He's increasing the AOW age even further. He gives people who simply can't work through no way out. There won't be any options to stop working sooner. So the problem is only getting bigger. This cabinet needs to solve the problem. But instead of tackling the causes, lowering the age of AOW, stopping earlier, improving working conditions, etc., the Minister comes up with a magic trick that Hans Kazán can learn from. This cabinet does not want to give a large group of people, about 10,000 to 15,000, the right to an invalidity allowance. For example, the number of people unable to work is indeed falling, at least on paper. It is the same as noticing that more and more people need to use the food bank and then suggest as a solution that anyone over 40 years of age should no longer use the food bank. Then the number of people who use the food bank is falling and we're doing a good job of each other. It is a trick that will cause great suffering, because the victims of this Koolmeestruc remain disabled, but will depend on the assistance or even nothing at all because they have a partner with an income. This morning the CBS figures showed that the group of 63-year-olds has the lowest income in the Netherlands. One in nine lives on low incomes and more than half of them have been for more than four years. The explanation for this is also sought in this extremely rapid increase in the AOW age. It is expected that this will continue to increase in the coming years. Can the Minister explain why the cabinet has chosen this Koolmeestruc? Is the Minister prepared to withdraw these unjust plans? Is the Minister prepared to address the causes of disability instead of this trick? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Van Kent. The third speaker from the Chamber, Mr Özdil, has the floor. He will speak on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Go ahead, Mr Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The number of people receiving disability benefits is increasing, especially among older people. The UWV expects more than 42,000 people to receive a new WIA benefit in 2017. The main reason is that older people continue to work longer. There's nothing wrong with that, as long as they can. Older people fall out more often because they can't take the job because they're out of work. The UWV indicates that the current higher influx is not due to the higher AOW age, but that it is nevertheless because people work longer and therefore there are more and more early cessation schemes. People just have to work longer in the coming years. The UWV says that by 2025 the influx into the WIA will be about 10% higher than it is now. Mr. Chairman. Of course, we must prevent people from becoming disabled, even if they continue to work longer. Working for sustainable employability and carrying out appropriate work, including at a later age, is still far from enough. What's this minister gonna do? How does he intend to "create a culture to make sustainable employability discussable"? His letter shows no action whatsoever for the rest. We need to work something out for those who haven't been able to prepare for longer work. Not just now, but also in the years to come. Because that's what was promised when we opted for a rapidly higher AOW age. Then it was said: let us give people who need it, the people with a heavy occupation, an opportunity to retire them earlier. That possibility didn't come. That's why people feel cheated. That feeling is more than justified. For GroenLinks, the higher influx into the disability of older people is yet another signal that we really need to deal with something for people with a heavy occupation. The previous cabinet and unfortunately this minister too say that it would not be possible to designate appeals as heavy. That seems to be mostly political unwillingness. The Economic Institute for Construction has shown that it can be done. They look at disability rates per occupation: an objective measure of the extent to which workers have to leave the industry prematurely. Mr. Chairman. These people need to be made clear. Let's finally live up to that promise. That is why I call on the Minister in this debate to come up with a proposal for a solution for people in the heavy professions and also to improve the sustainable employability of workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u7	Thank you, Mr. Özdil. I see that Mr Van Weyenberg of D66 is at the interrupting microphone. Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I think we're all trying to figure out how to make people fit for their AOW age. But to my small surprise, Mr Özdil came up with the proposal of the Economic Institute for Construction. They say that if you allow more people to become unfit for work in a sector, people in that sector may retire earlier. That's how I understand the proposal. Isn't that a huge risk that we are actually going to reward companies and sectors that do not invest in tackling illness and absenteeism and in sustainable employability for that poor employer behaviour, which means that employees are allowed to enter the AOW earlier? That's not the way to encourage employers to invest in their people, is it? And I wish the chairman well with her coughing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u9	Yeah, excuse me, sorry. I hope Mr Van Weyenberg's little tail of the interruption was clear after all. I give the floor to Mr Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Weyenberg is concerned about rewarding poor employership. For the sake of clarity, the Economic Institute for Construction says: a workable and affordable definition of heavy professions is when the risk of disability is twice as high as average. Then we are also done with the discussion: if you qualify one profession as heavy, then the other is going to complain. We're done with that. It seems to me, above all, that it is now rewarding poor employership by refusing to identify what are physically difficult professions. In itself, I am not always an opponent of distrust towards employers. But when it comes to simply helping people, I still have a feeling of distrust on the part of some parties that I do not otherwise taste. Now let's cut the cynicism. Let's deliver on the promise we all made at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u11	Let us indeed ensure that much more is invested, including in collective agreements, in sustainable employability. Perhaps I am more suspicious here than Mr Özdil. But if we were to say to a company "if you can't get people fit on the finish line, then we're actually going to reward you if you have a lot of them in the disability," then I'm really afraid that's not a call to fight absenteeism and to get people to re-integrate quickly. I fear that, unfortunately, in practice, this will have a reverse effect on Mr Özdil's noble goal in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u12	As I said, there is nothing wrong with a healthy dose of cynicism based on facts. My colleague from D66 also knows very well that we have very good laws and regulations, both in Europe and in the Netherlands, to ensure that employers treat workers properly. The problem is, of course, enforcement, inspection. We have had the necessary debates on this and we will continue to do so. Let us let go of that discussion for a moment and let us talk about the promise we made at the time, together with all of us, to spare the heavy professions from increasing the age of AOW. Let's make that promise. There is enough evidence for a good, workable and affordable definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u13	Thank you. The next speaker from the Chamber, Mr Heerma, will have the floor. He will speak on behalf of the Christian Democrat Group. I'm saying it all on purpose to cover the walk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. You're doing very well. Mr. Chairman. This debate was requested this autumn by Mrs Van Brenk of 50PLUS in response to reports about high influx of 60-plussers into the WIA. At the end of the year we received a letter from the Minister, also in response to the request. In that letter, the Minister outlines context based on figures. You can also see in this debate that there are actually two realities of two kinds of people side by side. With his figures, the Minister outlines in the letter that the age at which people are still active in the Dutch labour market is increasing considerably. Mr Özdil also mentioned this. Not only is there nothing wrong with that, but it is often also a good thing. The age of exit in the Netherlands was really very low in the past and with that the age at which people are told: it is not even time to stop, you are actually too old for the labour market. That wasn't good. Last week there was news that more and more 80-plussers are active in the labour market, about seniors who are still active. From that group, the seniors in the labour market, you hear more and more irritation about the fact that if they lose their jobs, they don't intervene anymore, because they would be written off, or irritated that they're being put away as too old to be able to participate. I can see that irritation. However, and this is also evident from the letter and from the news that Mrs Van Brenk asked for the debate about, that other reality is there too. The group that continues to work at a later age is growing. But the risk of disability is also greater. Then, as the Minister outlined in his letter of 15 December, you have a simple calculation that shows that the influx is also higher. There is the group that says there are opportunities, but I cannot participate and I want to get rid of that stigmatization. For them, the question is: can I make it and do it enough? The Minister states in his letter that an investigation is under way at the UWV. I think that is right, because the question is what can happen to reduce the number of people who fall out. That letter came from roughly a month ago. In that letter, the Minister states that the investigation is still ongoing. Any word on it? If not, when will we get those results? What can you do on the basis of that investigation? In addition, and this affects the sustainable deployment story that several spokesmen have already mentioned, the Minister outlines that in recent years the percentage of companies that really do something about sustainable employability has increased. That is a good thing, but if you see how much it has increased, it is not a reason for a great deal of optimism, because I think it has risen in seven or eight years from 32% to 43%. That's skinny. So, in addition to the question about the UWV, about that research, I also have the question of what role the minister sees for himself in increasing the commitment of companies to sustainable employability. Mrs Van Brenk has already asked for this. Does the Minister agree that this could lead to more people with workable work reaching the finish line? What role does he see for social partners, employers and employees in this context in raising this proportion of employers who are genuinely committed to sustainable employability?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u15	Thank you very much, Mr Heerma. I see an interruption by Mrs Van Brenn of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u16	I would like to ask the CDA colleague the following. In his plea, he rightly states that in the past people went very early with early retirement. Some categories with 55, 57. We can now see that working up to 65 is almost complete: an average of 64 years and a number of months. So working up to 65, and that's what 50PLUS advocates, isn't it a whole step that's been taken? I would therefore like to have a reflection from the CDA on the various categories. I admit that I look at my colleague Martin van Rooijen with some jealousy. At that age I hope to be so active and fit. But with me in the family I have an uncle who has worked in construction and who hasn't made it through 60 years with back and knees. That's true. How's the CDA in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u17	That is a question with many elements. Earlier this afternoon, I was turned on by the chairman because I answered too long. I would like to take Mrs Van Brenn's questions seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u18	This interruption was also quite long. A slightly longer answer is all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u19	I'd like to give a warning that I can't get rid of it with two sentences.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u20	No, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u21	I agree with Mrs Van Brenn that it is a good thing that we have reversed the trend in the Netherlands that at the age of 40 you had to start thinking about the end of your career. However, we do not already have the stigma with each other. I would like to draw your attention to the debates we had with Mr Krol in the previous period. Mr Van Weyenberg and I are also sometimes approached by employers who say: my employees are on average around 50 years of age; that is very old, and perhaps they should get out. There are also seniors in the labour market who no longer intervene because of these stigmas. So, yeah, it's very good that that age goes up where people are active. This is not only important for the labour market, which suffers from tighter conditions. It is not only necessary for the affordability of our facilities. It is also very good for those people themselves that they are no longer written off at such an early age, but we are not there yet. Because discrimination against older people in the labour market who do not intervene is still a major problem. That's on the first part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u22	I'm sure the second part could be a little shorter. I would like to give you the opportunity to answer the two questions, but it can be shorter. I know you can do it, Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The second part of Mrs Van Brenk's question was precisely on the two realities I was trying to outline. I understand very well that senior citizens in the labour market say: I am tired of being put away as too old and as someone who can't come, and that I can't participate. I'll send you that e-mail. That is the one reality. The other reality is there, too. Those are people who, when they lose their jobs, stop interfering because of the stigmas. There are people who fall out because of that increased WIA influx or people who are worried about it and wonder: do I save that finish line? For those two groups in my speech, the question to the Minister is: when do we get that research from the UWV? You asked the same question. That can provide brackets to do more on that side. And I asked: what is the Minister going to do and what does he think that social partners should do to raise that percentage of companies that are committed to sustainable employability? 43% is not fantastic, after all. That is the answer to the second part, Mr President. And I've tried to do it shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u24	I don't think I should respond to that. Mrs. Van Brenk, let me show you a short response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u25	Yes, very briefly. My specific question was this. We have people in construction and we have people here in the Chamber. That's a real difference, isn't it? Can you give me the CDA position on this one more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u26	Look, Mr. Heerma!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u27	This was very short, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u28	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u29	One of my colleagues is of the same age as Mrs Van Brenk's colleague. So yes, there are differences between professions. There are also differences between sectors, but there are also differences between people. However, in certain sectors where it is more difficult, it is also necessary to focus on sustainable employability, training and that sort of thing. A world can be won with that, making more people reach the finish line. Part of it is my question about the UWV, but part of it is the responsibility of employers and employees to make that possible for more people. But there are differences between certain professions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u30	Mr Heerma knows how to put it all very neatly, but the reality is really different. "Scholing" and "sustainable employability," it all sounds very nice, but Mrs Van Brenk's uncle, to put it that way, has nothing to do with that. He's 61. His knees, his back, everything's worn out. It can't work anymore. What's the CDA's answer to that? Should these people apply for a WIA benefit and wait until the AOW age is reached? Will they be given an opportunity to stop working earlier? What's the CDA gonna do for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u31	I appreciate that Mrs Van Brenk makes that distinction, but I have to say it to Mr Van Kent. He says the reality is... But I think, like 50PLUS, there are two realities. There are also seniors in the labour market who find it annoying that they are always portrayed as unable and unable to make it, and that is the only reality. The reality is that the age at which people work in our labour market, partly as a result of early retirement and pre-retirement schemes, is increasing considerably, that this is good for participation and that many seniors find it regrettable that only that reality is emphasised. On the one hand. On the other hand, there is the question of what we are doing for the other group. That's what my questions are about the UWV's ongoing investigation into those 60-plussers with the increased influx. It looks at how you can do more about it. That's what the UWV is doing. It is indeed also in employers who are going to do more to invest in sustainable employability and, as they say in Flanders, to create more workable work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u32	That's not an answer to the question. The CBS reported this morning that 63-year-olds who depend on a benefit pending the retirement date are living in poverty. The number of people unable to work is increasing. The problems in the labour market are particularly serious. If we look at who is working through, we can see that people with low incomes work through a year longer than those with high incomes, with high levels of education. That is precisely the group that started working early, which has a lower life expectancy and which is more likely to become disabled because it does more heavy work. That group is hit hard by that extremely fast increase in the AOW age. This cabinet doesn't do anything about it. In fact, with the support of the CDA, this cabinet is going to tighten the membership requirements for the WIA, so that fewer people are going to receive disability benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u33	And what do you want to know?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u34	Well, the question I asked at first was, what is the CDA going to do to solve this problem? Retroactive schools aren't going to work. Improving working conditions with retroactive effect is not possible. What are you gonna do for these 63-year-olds?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u35	Mr. Heerma, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u36	Mr President, I shall be brief. Bringing up the commitment to sustainable employability of employers and workers is an important response for more people to reach the finish line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u37	But not for those 63-year-olds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u38	Mr Heerma has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u39	In addition, the increased WIA influx of 60-plussers, the reason for this debate, is being investigated by the UWV. The Minister referred to that. That must be a good way to start the debate with each other on how to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u40	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. I see that it does not convince Mr Van Kent, but unfortunately it does. Mr Van Weyenberg is speaking. He will speak on behalf of D66, Democrats D66. No, Democrats 66. Now I said it wrong. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u41	Ah, Mr. Chairman, I like it all. When you look at the labour market, you see a double picture in the elderly. A number of colleagues have already said this. On the one hand, we can see that the average exit age has now risen to 64 years and five months in 2016, while in 2006 it was still 61 years. The colleagues said the same thing. That is a silent revolution, in which a lot of people continue to work. That's good news. I sometimes miss that in some considerations. On the other hand, you can see that the group of people who fall out often gets in trouble. The risk of long-term unemployment is higher. Now that the economy is improving, we can see that unemployment has fallen from 6.9% to just over 4% recently. That is still 4% too high, but that is a turnaround. But we need to do a lot more to really guide people who want to work, and Mr Heerma made that distinction. I am pleased with the extra support money for the UWV that we are going to free up for that and also with the resources for the UWV to educate people to crappy jobs. This can certainly be a promising way for older people to spend the second part of their career with a lot of work fun. A lot of older people want that, too. Fortunately, we are slowly but surely away from the stigma that you have to ask yourself at the age of 50 if you can actually participate. All these myths go away, but unfortunately I also encounter older people who still suffer from terrible prejudices. Mr. Chairman. If more older people work...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u42	Mr. Van Kent from the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u43	This is another hosanna story, just like Mr. Heerma's.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u44	Not at all!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u45	Do you ever meet employees who simply can't work anymore? What does Mr Van Weyenberg tell them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u46	First of all, if you call it a hosanna story when I tell you that too many unemployed still don't get to work, then I don't know what you call a gloomy story. I don't think that's a hosanna story at all. I'm going to say something about the fact that I'm definitely running into people who aren't gonna make it. But I find the example you made of such a big song, someone who was worn out at the age of 61, remarkable. With all due respect, it's not very helpful with your "65 is 65." As much as I regret that working 60-plussers have a three times higher chance of joining the WIA, I would like to say that I am proud that we in this country have a very decent disability scheme for workers who are out of work. I would like to do everything I can to prevent this, but I think that Mr Van Kent sometimes makes a caricature of what we have built up in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u47	That 61-year-old does indeed need an arrangement to be able to stop working earlier. That is what the SP Group is advocating, but D66 is against it. Mr Van Weyenberg talks about disability insurance, the WIA, but a very large group is excluded, because these people are less than 35% disabled. This D66 minister, with the support of the D66 Group, is going to restrict access to that WIA. That access is simply restricted. That is the opposite of what Mr Van Weyenberg is saying here. With that, his story at this point is truly unbelievable for this group of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u48	That's bullshit. We simply maintain the WIA in the Netherlands. I admit immediately that we are taking a number of measures. We are also taking measures against high-income people who came into the WIA and who were entitled to them much faster than those with a slightly lower income. That is a measure I call social and I count on your support. We do all kinds of things. We're gonna help the unemployed better. There's gonna be money for retraining. I have a lot of questions at all. Mr Van Kent has turned against that higher AOW age from day one. Sometimes that was in the accounts of the SP and then not, but that was completely on the side. I don't think that's very helpful. Fortunately, we're all getting older, we can work longer, and that just turns out to be the case. You said that all these people would be unemployed at home: the age of exit is now almost 65.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u49	I suggest you continue your speech, Mr. Van Weyenberg. We also have a Member of Parliament who is going to defend an initiative law tonight. Certainly Mr Van Weyenberg will want to give enough room for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u50	Like colleagues, I cannot wait to hear Mr Jetten talk about the deconstitutionalisation of the mayor. Mr. Chairman. I'm curious if there's any further development of the UWV research into the causes of that higher WIA influx; not just of 60-plussers, because I'm more concerned about the increase in influx. That is one of the reasons why the cabinet is actually looking at the WIA, as I say to Mr Van Kent. Looking at this particular group we have asked a lot of attention...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u51	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u52	Mr Van Weyenberg, you may finish your sentence, and then I will give Mr Van Kent the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u53	I also drew attention to what we can do to reduce the chance of those three times higher influxes for 60-plussers. The good thing about the government agreement is that a lot of words are devoted to part-time pensions. A lot of people say they want to, but it hardly comes from the ground. I really hope that the Minister will pay attention to this in his conversation with the social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u54	Okay, then I want Mr. Van Kent...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u55	That's why I hesitated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u56	Mr Van Weyenberg spoke directly to me and mentioned as one of the reasons for looking at the WIA that the WIA influx is so high. But that "look at the WIA" by the cabinet is nothing more or less than a common cut of 250 million by tightening the estimation decision and thus I calculated it for the fist away to deny 10.000 to 15,000 people part or all of a benefit. That's not "watching the WIA," but limiting the influx, so you can say in a few years' time: look, the influx into the WIA has dropped. Yeah, it's kind of weedy when you send a lot of people either towards welfare or give them no income at all because they have a partner with an income. So that's really...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u57	I do not understand Mr Van Kent's indignation. He may not agree with the measures, but I am also very transparent about what we are doing there. We also take measures there so that when you're in the WW, it doesn't pay to get sick. That was a weird construction. That looming error is gonna come out. We ensure that the WIA is not stricter for low-income people than for higher-income people, such as Mr Van Kent and myself. So in that sense, there are all kinds of things in it that I think are very defensible. At the same time, we are also investing heavily to better guide disabled people to work. Because that is what it has to be about: as few people as possible disabled against their will on the side and as many people as possible on the job.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u58	Mr Van Weyenberg mentions ten other measures, but does not address the measure that I have outlined: the 250 million cut on the backs of people who have become disabled, which will mean that people who are worn out will not be able to claim any or less WIA benefit. This is a particularly unfair measure, which is also in line with the cabinet's desire to reduce the number of disabled people. That's just a magic trick, when people don't get better and can't make it to the end of the line healthy, but come home with welfare benefits or live in poverty. Would you like to go into that and not mention many other measures which this cabinet intends to take?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u59	Mr. Van Weyenberg, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u60	We're just gonna help people make the move to work. And we're gonna change that estimation decision. I understand that Mr Van Kent is not in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u61	You keep taking people's benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u62	Mr Van Kent keeps talking through it, Mr President. That's so hard to answer. If he knows the answer to his own questions, maybe I should keep my mouth shut. We're just gonna see if there are nine functions that people can perform, focusing on the fact that people are getting to work. Mr Van Kent may weigh that differently, but don't go...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u63	I give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn, who is 50PLUS, for her interruption. And I'm asking Mr. Van Weyenberg to respond a little bit shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u64	Mr Van Weyenberg asked the Minister about part-time pensions. I know that the trade union movement also has ideas about this, but we are concerned: who can afford it? I'm gonna stick with the construction worker for that anyway. Can he afford that? Is that financially feasible? How does D66 see that? Or is this just for the long-term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u65	To begin with, a lot of people in heavy professions are lucky enough to make a good living with that as well. Lots of people in construction, lots of plasterers and so on can make a really good living. But Mrs Van Brenk is right: you must have built up a supplementary pension in order to be able to pay for it. But I also see generational pacts, with, for example, 60% working and 80% retirement. There are many initiatives in this area. I would have liked to ask the Minister, but I am now doing so in response to your question. In all his discussions with social partners on pensions and sustainable employability, I also consider this type of initiative to be important. They must be accessible. Mrs Van Brenk knows more about collective agreements than I do; she has done a lot with them in her life. But when it comes to sustainable employability, I think that if you conclude a collective agreement in construction, you will take very different measures than, for example, in the sector in which your colleague Van Rooijen worked. You're gonna need a lot of other things there. This requires a lot of customisation, but also a lot of customization in the collective agreement and in the workplace, to reduce the chance of falling out and to increase the chance that you can work healthy, fit and with pleasure until your retirement age. I have often quoted the example of the sewer work on my doorstep. In my memory, people were lifting very heavy things. Now there is a lot of automated work, so that this work becomes much less burdensome. I expect a great deal of this kind of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u66	Okay. Mrs. Van Brenk. You don't have to, but it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u67	Maybe for a little while. You're quoting generational pacts. Do I understand that there's room at D66 to make something of earlier stopping possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u68	Mr. Van Weyenberg, is there room?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u69	If the Minister is not allowed to think about what anyone else is suggesting when he talks about subject matter, for example with employers and employees, then we do not have to send him on the road. I think that is what I said in the course of the budget debate. I have always said that I want ambition, because the challenges are great. I also expect a great deal from the trade union movement and employers. They will have to do a great deal in the workplace, and there can be much more to ensure that people can work more fitter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u70	But is there...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u71	I also see a lot of sectors where good agreements are now being made, for example with generation pacts. I always give the Minister the opportunity to discuss whether he can meet the wishes of the party he is negotiating with, because once again, otherwise we might as well not send the Minister on the road.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u72	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u73	I embrace my colleague from D66 when he says he likes ambition. I like that too; GroenLinks likes that too. My question to Mr Van Weyenberg is whether he thinks that the minister in his letter shows enough ambition when it comes to sustainable employability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u74	Yeah, a lot of ambition. But I think, for example, that in the budget we have done something really nice with the retraining to help job seekers, especially the elderly, to find jobs that people are looking for. We've been naming the subject for a long time. But I'll share the inconvenience with you. In all honesty, I think that this is something in which we, as politicians, can really look at social partners. This is not yet being done. We cannot accept that work in a sector is so hard that people are worn out at the age of 60. That's something the Minister can say loudly in those talks. I'm assuming he will, too. But we can't solve that here alone. That is what we have to do in this sector. I'm actually looking at the trade union movement. He's gotta bet his ass on this. And then my last sentence; then I immediately incorporated my own input into all the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u75	Look.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u76	That's why I'm so worried about the idea of the Economic Institute for Construction. That actually says: well, if working conditions are bad and people fall out more often, would you care to ensure that we are allowed to say goodbye earlier? That is not why Mr Özdil called attention to it, but that is a real concern I have with regard to that plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u77	I asked my colleague from D66 whether he felt that the Minister's letter showed enough ambition in terms of sustainable employability. I have received a very long answer on all kinds of interesting issues, but I have not heard a yes or no. Maybe I missed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u78	Yes or no, Mr. Van Weyenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u79	Mr President, if Mr Özdil wants to join a quiz, he has to go to Hilversum. But I think the essence is that the Minister has a great ambition, just like Mr Özdil and I, and like everyone else here. Where my discomfort lies is that I do not come there only with the Minister's ambition, because that ambition must also be translated into collective agreements. The Minister has a great deal of ambition, but with all the appreciation and confidence I have in the Minister: only with the ambition of the Minister will we not solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u80	Okay. Were you done with your contribution? Yeah? Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). That's sir...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u81	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u82	Oh, excuse me, Mr. Van Kent. This is your last interruption to Mr Van Weyenberg, because it is your third interruption in a 30-member debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u83	It's not interrupting. Mr Van Weyenberg had promised that he would tell what he would say to that 61-year-old who would no longer be able to work if he met him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u84	What do you say to that 61-year-old, Mr. Van Weyenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u85	That if someone is 61 and becomes disabled at work, we've taken good care of it. Secondly, if that 61-year-old can't work on a dock anymore, then he, his employer and we need to see where he can still work. If someone unexpectedly loses his job, this cabinet secures the IOW; sorry for the abbreviation. So we say a lot of things to the 61-year-old, but above all I say to Mr Van Kent: let us really keep things apart. The group that's not doing well, we need to help. We have decent social security in this country. Mr Van Kent occasionally pretends that we live in a banana republic. Fortunately, we have done very well in that area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u86	So this is what he says to the 61-year-old, Mr. Van Kent. You may respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u87	And, above all, against Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u88	It's quite a sad story, especially that last part, because someone has to wait six years at welfare level with an IOW benefit until he finally gets a pension and AOW. But more importantly, do you also tell this person that you are going to make access to social security, the WIA benefit, more difficult, and that this cabinet will increase the chances that there will be no benefit for him or her if he or she applies for the benefit after the illness period?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u89	What I am telling that person is that we are going to invest extra to help people who have become disabled to get to work where they still can. And again, for people who simply can't work anymore, we have a really good disability scheme in this country. I am proud of that with Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u90	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. I call the next speaker, Mr De Jong. He speaks on behalf of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u91	Mr President, thank you very much. The asocial increase in the age of AOW is causing more and more victims. The consequences are disastrous, because older workers are being caught. Those who are no longer able to work, who are still struggling to keep their heads above water and who are going sick towards retirement, are also caught. That is antisocial and disastrous, because they end up in the WIA right in front of their AOW. Sometimes they end up in the WW after they're fired and eventually even in the welfare system. My question to the Minister is therefore: how big is the mess that this has caused? Does the Minister know this? Older people's unemployment is still high. How many of these people never get back to work, so they're on welfare until they retire? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The AOW age continues to rise. In the meantime, the AOW age is 67 years and 3 months in 2022. The cabinet may even adjust the AOW age upwards as soon as it sees justification in cold mathematical models. This has just been mentioned: life expectancy. And this while the disastrous consequences are already visible. Let me give you an example. The Metal and Technics Pension Fund saw a doubling of the number of disabled persons since the retirement age went up in steps from 65 to 67 years. Older people are also more likely to be declared unfit for work with the Health and Welfare Pension Fund plus 20%. These are dramatic figures. Therefore, the PVV calls on the cabinet to reverse the antisocial AOW age increase immediately and to restore the AOW age to 65. That is, as I mentioned earlier in this Chamber, not just a PVV wish. That is a wish of many Dutch people. In fact, a majority of Dutch people want the AOW age to go back to 65. The majority of employers also prefer to have back to 65 in surveys on the AOW age. There is therefore a strong support for this position. The Minister must therefore get to work on it immediately. After all, everyone deserves a good and carefree old age. This should be a right, especially when you've worked hard and hard for a lifetime. So you can't get away with: we have very good disability schemes. At the moment when the AOW increase in age means that we can no longer go in a normal way towards retirement, we have a very big problem. We can now tackle this problem in part by not pursuing this anti-social increase in age. Put the AOW age back at 65, so we really stand up for the elderly. It's also a matter of choosing. Either you choose to send the money to Africa and to all other people, or you choose to give it to your own older people. We choose the latter. It is time for this minister to set his priorities and thus join the PVV in setting the AOW age again at 65. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u92	Thank you, Mr. De Jong. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). That's Mr. Dennis Wiersma. He will speak on behalf of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy, better known as the VVD. Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u93	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Employers are jumping over people and still a lot of people are jumping over a job. In many debates here, we ask for attention to be paid to this and also to how we can bring it together. But we cannot have these debates properly if we do not talk about the challenges of staying fit. It is good that we are holding this debate on the initiative of Mrs Van Brenn of 50PLUS. We will have to do this more often in the near future, because the challenges are big enough. The influx of 60-plussers into the WIA increased from over 5,000 to over 7,000 between 2014 and 2016. It is certainly a real job for older workers, and especially in some sectors, to continue to do your job well and well for a lifetime. And yes, many changes, especially technological ones, make it easier. They can help. But we also see that this does not always apply to everyone. And yes, we see that the employment rate is rising rapidly, but there are also challenges. One of these challenges is in the report, or actually the research into the WIA that is still under way and the initial results of which have become known. There is another investigation, but I actually have the same question as a number of others have already asked. Do we already see the causes, the exact causes? Are there any clues as to which bottlenecks are specific to this group? Can we do more about that? I would like to point out that a number of things in the investigation are not entirely clear. Would we still have the possibility to specifically zoom in on this group? If that's still part of what's going to happen in the investigation, I'm asking the Minister. So part of the research is already showing something. You can see that it is partly a result of the economic crisis and partly because of the increase in the employment rate of older people. There are now more elderly people at work and therefore more elderly people are insured against the risk of incapacity for work. In addition, they are more likely to become disabled than young workers. That's part of the story, but I think it's important to know the other part of the story for some very important challenges for the coming time. At first, we really need more insight into that. When do we get a look at that, so I ask again. The average age of exit has indeed increased. That was 64 years and 5 months in 2016. In 2006 it was still 61 years. This means that sustainable employability is not always successful. The Minister rightly points out the responsibility of employers and employees. I wonder how he looks at those efforts. Is that enough? Are there enough good examples? We did see a letter the other day. It talks about part-time pensions, generational pacts and so on. Do we have to develop any more of those things? Do you need any more good ideas for that? Is it perhaps an idea to make a new round for this in the sectors? Where does this work and where can this be done? I think we need these good examples very much, so I wonder if the Minister can show them to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u94	Thank you, Mr. Wiersma. You have another interruption from Mr. De Jong of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u95	Mr Wiersma of the VVD Group still has a lot of questions about this group, about people who can hardly go to retirement age. If that is so many people and if there are so many questions, why does Mr Wiersma not say: okay, beware of the place, we are going to stop this AOW increase in age and we are going to find a solution to this? Look, PVV says she wants 65 back. That's the story. If Mr Wiersma of the VVD Group wants this increase in age, I can imagine that he would first choose to find a solution to the problems he is facing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u96	Thanks for the question. There are a number of challenges, where you have to separate a number of things, as a number of speakers have said. Look at the number of 60-plussers between 2012 and 2014, who are insured against disability risk. That was a small 400,000 in 2012. In 2014, it was 474,000. So it's become more. The UWV also indicates that the risk of disability at that age is 1.25%. Those are all numbers. I am very curious, however, to ask the Minister whether we can find out a little more about the trigger points you need to prevent it. It is no coincidence that it is happening faster in some sectors than in others. Are those sectors doing enough? Are there any good examples where we can do better? I'm trying to figure out how we can manage the responsibility to use people as long as possible in work. That's a lot of good for us. We shouldn't want to lose them. That is my quest, that of the Minister and, in my opinion, that of sectors. We must tackle the challenges together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u97	If you've decided that people have to work longer and then you find out that this is unfeasible for a large group, what's wrong with saying: then I'm stopping it now? At first, the idea was to keep people working longer. Part of it worked, because people work almost until they're 65. But what's happening now beyond that age is poignant. People don't get to work over 65. Then what is wrong with saying: we stop it and now look for a solution to make it possible in the future? The PVV doesn't want the age increase to exceed 65. We want the age back to 65. Why isn't it some kind of interim solution, for both you and me, that we stop the age increase for the group for which it's very difficult right now and for everyone? We should, because we still have no solution for the groups that are having such a hard time. What's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u98	Mr Wiersma, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u99	Mr De Jong says: it is not working. But it works all the time. It's getting better. It's very easy to say: it's not working, so I'm going to stand up for older workers; get behind the geraniums sooner. In my view, looking at the wider discussion on the AOW, we agree that we and companies have a duty to see what people in general, but certainly older workers, can contribute to the labour market after years of faithful service. If it really is not possible, if it is wrong and someone becomes disabled, we have a very good safety net for that. But that does not relieve us of the duty to work with each other every day to make use of knowledge and experience, especially now that a lot of companies are jumping at people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u100	A nice speech from the PVV. I feel so sorry for that. Mr Wiersma pointed a lot at social partners, but he is in the coalition. What are you gonna do about it? Don't you think the government has a role to play in this? I do not think it is a good thing that the problem should be dismissed. What should the Cabinet do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u101	Mrs Van Brenk and I are both from one of the social partners. If there are people who have faith in the social partners, it should be us. That's what I'm telling you. That doesn't mean the government has no role at all. We talked about retraining. We have allocated money in the budget to older jobseekers to ensure that they can be retrained to a job of chance. We have had the approach of older people unemployment in recent years. We have a no-riskpolis. The government does a lot of things. We're going to facilitate an individual learning account. We have a lifelong learning credit. I can name a whole line of things the government does. But that does not mean that it is not important for the employer and the employee to check with each other on time to see whether the work can be done properly, or how it can be made less difficult. There are many good examples of companies doing this for older workers. It is not the case that we have to choose the easy solution and say: well, that's not interesting, why don't you just sit behind the geraniums? I really wouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u102	For some people, a geranium in front of the window can be very beautiful. Others like to keep working. But I'm concerned about the point Mr. Wiersma is making. He says, "We've done a lot of things." And a lot of things have already stopped. One of those things is the senior ambassador we talked about. We'll talk about the financial support if you hire older people. A lot of things end up. If you're talking about a reliable government, it would be good to go through with that kind of thing, so that employers can trust that it's sustainable and facilitated. How does the VVD view this topic?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u103	Okay. Mr. Wiersma, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u104	First of all, I apologize for my comment about the geranium, because I do not want to push the union of geranium lovers against me. It's a very beautiful plant. I understand what Mrs Van Brenk means, but I do not entirely agree. A lot of things we're going through. By the way, we're extending the IOAW. The senior ambassador also continues, but in this case with the ANBO. There are also a lot of measures currently under way under the coalition agreement in the near future. I mentioned all the important measures in the field of training. Yes, that's not always the solution for everyone right away, but it's exactly why I want to get a closer look at the point where the target group we're discussing today is stuck.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u105	Mr. De Jong, would you like to add a new point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u106	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u107	Then I'll give you a chance to post a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u108	Oh, that's so nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u109	Please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u110	It's beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u111	Set a good example!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u112	Sure. I am going to do that now if you give me the space to do so, because we are now engaged in a debate among ourselves for almost a minute. I would like to put a question to the VVD Group. Mr Wiersma talks about geraniums, and I find that very stigmatizing, especially for the group of people who are no longer able to work. My question is where Mr Wiersma gets it from to say that the fact that someone wants to work voluntarily after 65 cannot go hand in hand with the example of someone who is no longer able to work until after 65, for example up to 67 years old. Why do you tell the people who can't work anymore that apparently they'd rather sit behind the geraniums?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u113	What I just said, we have a duty to each other and also to companies, after years of faithful service, to make use of the knowledge and experience of older forces. That is precisely what is important at a time when we need these people in the labour market. By "geraniums," I don't mean anything derogatory. I'm just saying we really need these people. And I want us to do everything we can to make sure that those people feel and are motivated to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u114	It would be nice if Mr Wiersma were to put that into practice and say: we now have so many problems that people who want to work voluntarily can do so, but we have to stop raising their age. If Mr Wiersma thinks that this is unspeakable, if that is not possible, he is actually abandoning people who now have a lot of problems. And that's sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u115	The PVV may opt for one solution, but we opt for a lot of different solutions. And they're also in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u116	Thank you, Mr. Wiersma. This brings us to the end of the first term. The Minister has requested a ten-minute suspension so that he can prepare himself. We'll continue at 6:05.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u117	The next item is the first term of office. I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. Mr. Secretary, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u118	Thank you, Madam President. We are talking today about an important issue, disability. It is right that Mrs Van Brenk has requested a debate on this issue. Inability to work is something we all want to avoid as much as possible, both employees and employers, as well as the cabinet. However, the inflow in 2016 in the disability scheme, the WIA, has increased. We have to be careful that we create all kinds of images. Mr Heerma mentioned images. You're right. There are different realities, but occasionally you hear in the public debate that the increase in WIA inflows would be entirely at the expense of older workers. You can also hear that by abolishing the VRS, almost all older workers leave the labour market via the WIA. We really need to correct that image. It's just not a real picture of reality. I would like to do this today by providing the figures with a context.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u119	Mr Van Kent wants to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u120	A very short question. Who said this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u121	I say we should be careful of this kind of footage, that all the elderly are flowing through the VERY increase in the WIA. Mr. De Jong almost hit it. That image is shared. On the contrary, I want to show the figures and put this discussion in the right context to prevent such an image from living.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u122	Mr Van Kent, you may respond briefly, but let us not have a whole discussion about images.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u123	I note that the Minister cannot mention anyone who has said this. It is therefore the Minister himself who is now putting forward this picture and suggests that Members or others would have said so, when no one has said so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u124	I would like to give Mr De Jong the opportunity to respond, so that the Minister can respond to both at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u125	Yes, Mr President, if there is an increased influx into the WIA and that is partly due to older workers who have a lot of trouble reaching retirement age, then it is a bit of a crazy debate trick to pretend that that is something we need to get rid of. The PVV Group wants a solution to be found for these people. Could the Minister please answer that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u126	I agree immediately with Mr De Jong and Mr Van Kent. There must be a solution to the problem of higher influx into the WIA. I note recently in the public debate on this important issue that this is a very big problem which affects a very large proportion of older workers, either by abolishing the VRS or by increasing the age of AOW. That's what I want to nuance in my story today. I hope that the Chamber will give me the opportunity to explain this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u127	I really want to give the Minister the opportunity to continue his speech. The Chamber has asked a number of questions. We are already running out of time, because I have given you a great deal of space to interfere in the 30-member debate. First, I want to give the Minister a chance to respond. I trust he will answer the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u128	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u129	So the Minister has the floor now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I said, I would like to correct this type of image and provide a context by mentioning the figures and conducting the wider discussion with the Chamber. Because in all age groups there is an increase in inflow. Unfortunately, I would add. It's in all categories. Two. The abolition of the VRS has led to an increase in the employment rate of older workers. But the WIA's influx rate of 63- and 64-year-olds has increased. It is now at the level of the influx rate of 60-year-olds and 62-year-olds. This does not alter the reality that the influx rate of 60-plussers is higher than that of younger workers. I think it is important that as many workers as possible reach their retirement age. Therefore, sustainable employability is high on the cabinet agenda. I would now like to answer the questions from the Chamber in three blocks. In the first block, I'll specify the inflow rates in the WIA. The second concerns the influx of 60-plussers and the explanations that have been found for this and, finally, I will address the issue of sustainable employability. So I'm gonna start with the WIA's influx figures. The influx into the WIA has increased, at least in 2016. On the contrary, there was a decrease in 2015. So we have to be careful that we don't mix up for years. In 2016, the inflow increased from 35,798 to 40,116 persons. That's a 12% increase. As has already been said, this increase in intake can be seen across the board, in workers and in people coming out of the WW. This increase can be seen in all sectors, in men and in women, and also in all age groups, and I think it is important to share it with you here too. The increase in 2016 was particularly high in the group of sick WW'ers, an increase of 22.7%, and in the group of permanent employees, 11%. For the sick WW'ers, the increase can be explained for the most part from a higher influx into the WW in 2014. If people have been ill for two years, they are eligible for the WIA. So it's the influx in the year 2014. As a result of which the WIA influx of permanent employees has increased, it is not yet entirely clear. Some of you have asked about the UWV investigation. The UWV study deals precisely with this point, because it is actually still the question of what the explanations and the causes of this rapid increase are. In the description of the UWV there is a suggestion for that, but we are not sure. The investigation is ongoing right now. Mrs. Van Brenk asked about it. Mr Heerma has asked for it. Mr Wiersma has asked. The investigation was completed in the spring and I will inform the Chamber about the results of the investigation. It is therefore primarily a question of identifying the explanations and the causes of this higher influx. It is not about policy; I will come back to that in my third block. Mr. Chairman. So it's not that the increase is just caused by 60-plussers. However, this group is a major focus, as the influx of this group increases relatively more than that of 60-minners. Just a few digits. The inflow rate of insured persons aged 60 and over increased from 0.91% in 2015 to 1.1% in 2016. By comparison, in people under 55 years of age, the influx rate has increased from 0.39% to 0.43%. So you can see that the differences are large. Mr. Chairman. My second block: what are the explanations for that? As I said, the investigation is still ongoing. There are a few hypotheses and a few explanations to give. Firstly, the employment rate of older people has increased considerably in those years, partly as a result of the increase in retirement age and the abolition of the early retirement scheme. This has also significantly increased the number of older people insured against the risk of incapacity for work. For comparison, between 2012 and 2014.............................................................................................................................................................. That is an increase of 80,000, and that is, of course, all to do with the increase in the employment rate. In addition, Mr President, that not only more elderly people are working, that is that increase of 80,000 people, but also that people are working much longer. The exit age in 2006 was 61 years and it has risen to nearly 64.5 years in 2016. And it's a fact that the risk of disability is higher at a higher age. That's what we saw in the past. I'll just say, for the discussion. Thus, not only are older people active in the labour market, they also have a slightly higher risk of disability than the 60-miners. That is also well explained in the well-known research of the UWV. These two developments increase the influx of older workers into the WIA. However, it is not the case that the older workers who used to go with the VRS are now all draining through the WIA. That is far from the case. The UWV notes that workers with health problems could retire early via the VTE. That was indeed the situation before 2003. This can no longer be done, which means that all employees work longer. There is therefore also a kind of compositional effect in the figures and therefore the chance for a 63-year-old and a 64-year-old to flow into the WIA has increased in recent years. But it is an important nuance that this opportunity is now at the level of the 60- to 62-year-olds, namely at that influx rate of about 1.25%. In other words, you don't see a very big difference between 60-year-olds and 64-year-olds. I think this is also an important point to draw attention to. The most important point is that the vast majority of workers in health, relative health, can continue to work up to the AOW age. The chance for 60-plussers to enter the WIA was therefore up to 1.25%. In other words, out of the 100 63-year-olds who work, 4 eventually flow into the WIA. So 96 do not leave the labour market via the WIA, but stay at work. That gives a context for this discussion, but it can be much better. Because, as I said, the influx into the WIA among the elderly group is much higher than among young people. This is also part of the story that Mr Heerma has rightly pointed out: it is also about the opportunity to return to the labour market, about higher unemployment and about perceptions among employers. What can we do about it? Today I want to focus on disability and sustainable employability. In addition, we have included measures such as the extension of the IOW benefit and such as 70 million for the UWV to help people who are long-term unemployed with face-to-face discussions to go to the labour market. I am going to focus on sustainable employability, because that is what the debate is about today. The number of older people active in the labour market has increased considerably. The vast majority of employees also work until retirement age. This is without prejudice to the importance of continuing to invest together between workers and employers in longer-term healthy working conditions. It is primarily up to employers and employees to think carefully about questions such as "how do I ensure that my employees remain sustainable?" And "how do I continue to invest in myself?'. This is a combined responsibility of employers and employees together. They have a common interest and a common responsibility. Good practice also shows how it can be done, such as the wholesaler of technical installation materials, the Technical Union, where it is considered how mechanics, drivers, warehouse people and other workers can continue to work for longer in a healthy and motivated manner. For example, there is a periodic preventive check-up, a stronger security policy, training to properly lift or move goods, and new means and new technologies to minimise the physical burden on the work. Mr Wiersma referred to this in his first term. This is done in collaboration with the company doctor and the physiotherapist. Another important example is the fire department. I've used that in debates with the Chamber before. You know it's very hard for a 63-year-old firefighter to have to go into a burning house with 60 kilos on his back, but we already know that when people are 40. So how do we ensure that firefighters who are 40 are prepared through retraining, retraining and job rotation to remain sustainable? Fortunately, healthy work up to retirement is an important subject in many companies. Research by Berenschot shows that sustainable employability was the most important HR theme of 2017. I think that's good news. We are not there, but it is an important development. I am also saying to Mr Heerma that 90% of employers want to take measures to keep their employees vital and skilled for longer. I think that's very good news. Three quarters of employers offer training for this purpose. Two thirds of the organisations consider the possibility for staff to work less hours. This concerns, for example, a part-time pension and a generational pact. It also focuses on adapting work and working more at home, all measures aimed at achieving this sustainable employability. The CBS Labour Survey also shows that more employers are actively taking measures to encourage workers to work longer. That is where Mr Heerma's figures come from, the 43%. And that's not enough. Measures are often also taken to reduce psychosocial workload, and there is more room for training and development. These are all positive signals, but we are not there yet. The focus on sustainable employability remains necessary, not only in recent years, but throughout the career. Employers and employees should be talking throughout their career, not just for over 60 people, about how you can continue to work in a good way and how you can be used sustainably. In this way, together, we can take timely measures to prevent failure. In November, I myself made a subsidy scheme available for 45-plussers, precisely as a preventive test: how do I ensure that I reach the retirement age in a healthy way? Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Heerma spoke about the amendment to the budget on training, which is indeed extremely important in order to remain sustainable. The cabinet, in consultation with social partners, will look at possible obstacles to longer working. This may indeed concern issues such as part-time pensions and generation pact schemes. That is also what I said to Mr Gijs van Dijk in the budget debate in response to his motion, and it is also in track 1 of my letter on labour market balance, in which it is indeed about longer working well. It is a very important item, a very important track in that letter, in the agenda for the coming years. Finally. As far as the cabinet is concerned, the solution is not to reduce the age of AOW. This cabinet is for a solid and solidarity AOW for present and future generations. Thanks to the AOW, few elderly people live in poverty in the Netherlands. Because we live longer on average, we will also be able and have to work longer to ensure the affordability of the system. A reduction in the AOW age means higher AOW expenditure, which must be paid by future workers. That's gonna cost a lot of money. I have already said in the budgetary debate on this point that a reduction in the AOW age to 65 years reduces the sustainability of public finances by 1.8% of GDP. We are talking about EUR 13.14 billion a year. That's a lot of money. Money that we also need for, as I said, health care, education, infrastructure and defence. It is therefore important that we focus the discussion on sustainable employability and on employers' responsibility for employees and also for the Cabinet to improve that sustainable employability, and thus also prevent large groups from actually pouring out towards disability. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u131	Thank you. I see there are some interruptions. First, Mrs Van Brenn of 50PLUS has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u132	I have a few questions for the Minister, Mr President, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u133	I think, for example, that your question about the government itself being an employer is a bit of a lay-by. I'd like to help you with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u134	But there have been many more questions left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u135	I will first give Mrs Van Brenk the opportunity and then Mr Van Kent to tell us what questions have remained so that the Minister can record them and reply to them. What remained, Mrs. Van Brenk? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u136	I would also like to comment on Mr Koolmees' speech. Back to 65 is indeed a political choice. And you can only spend your money once. For example, we would not have given the multinationals 1.4 billion dollars in dividend taxes, but that aside. You talked about the 60-year-olds entering the WIA, but I've already indicated that there are people who fall out even before because they just don't make it in their profession. What are they gonna count on? Mr Koolmees says: we have good arrangements. But is he familiar with Mr. Vrooman's research and lecture? He indicates that between 18 and 64 years of age, the risk of loss of income has increased by 34% since 1980. Mr Weyenberg said that we are not a banana republic here. But a 34% chance of reducing your income is a lot. I would very much like to know how he looks at that. I'm only gonna ask you one more time. You're also an employer. The government is one of the largest employers. What are you gonna do? And I would just like to say once again: what are we going to do for all those people who don't get that? We have given examples of this: not everything can be automated and not everyone is so easy to teach to mean something else now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u137	Thank you. Just two things. It's Mr. Van Weyenberg. And when we address a minister or secretary of state, we say: the minister or the secretary of state. I now give the floor to the Minister and then to Mr Van Kent, after Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u138	Mrs Van Brenk has raised a number of issues. Indeed, going back to 65 years is a political choice; that is absolutely true. It is also a political choice that costs a lot of money, as I have just said, between EUR 13 billion and EUR 14 billion per year. The cabinet really makes a different choice, namely to use it for investments in health care, education and infrastructure. Mrs. Van Brenk makes another choice. It's possible. I would just like to draw attention to the consequences of such a choice, which is why I mentioned the EUR 13 to 14 billion. The second point. I do not know Mr Vrooman's or Mrs Vrooman's research on the possibility that people are more dependent on disability benefits or wider, on poverty. I don't know it, so I should be guessing. It's been since 1981. I'm very curious. If Mrs. Van Brenk has it, I'd be happy to receive it. Soon I will receive something from you anyway, so maybe we can combine it. Finally, the question about the employer. I mentioned an example about the fire department. Although it is the municipal employers who are responsible for it or who are negotiating it, the issue of sustainable employability is widely seen in the collective agreement country, not only in the government, but also in the construction and in the technical installation. There's more and more attention to it. I have mentioned a whole list of examples of policies that are being given more attention and are increasingly on the collective agreement agenda. I like that. At the same time, I'm not a government employee. My colleagues, Mr Grapperhaus for the police and Mrs Bijleveld for Defence, all have a role as a government employer at sectoral level. They are also negotiating at sectoral level and need to find targeted tailor-made solutions for this sector, if relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u139	I will e-mail Mr Vrooman's research to you, not a single point. I would very much like to ask the Minister something, not so much as an employer. You're very positive about what's going on. We hear much more on the other side, that it remains half empty from the employers' side. I can challenge you one more time. Can you tell us what incentive we can expect from this cabinet to make it work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u140	As I have just outlined in my reply: in my letter Balance on the labour market, track 1 focuses on sustainable employability. This includes the agreements between employers and employees: how do we ensure that people reach the AOW age in a healthy way and how do we ensure that people who cannot get this through other forms of income support? As I said during the budget debate in the direction of Mr Gijs van Dijk, the cabinet could be concerned, for example, with part-time pensions, generation pact schemes or other methods such as job rotation where people are going to perform a different function at some point. As far as the cabinet is concerned, it is a broad agenda that should be drawn up in the near future together with employers and employees in order to address this important problem. There is no doubt that it is a problem and we will have to deal with it. What I wanted to point out in my response to Berenschot's research, and along the lines of what is going on now, is that perhaps at last too late, I personally think that there is a sense that this is an extremely important issue for the labour market of the future, given that we will have to continue to work longer in the future. I would like to support this development and I would like to make agreements with employers and employees to anchor it in collective agreements, in sectors and in companies, specifically in those sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u141	I have asked a number of questions on two subjects which the Minister did not address at all. The first is the Koolmeestruc: the increase in the number of disabled people masking by limiting accession. I had asked what the reason was that the cabinet made that appointment, which is the background to that. The second issue was about the CBS figures this morning, namely that among 63- to 65-year-olds poverty is rising very rapidly and that the cause of this is unemployment, illness and dependency on benefits. I asked the Minister to look into the underlying causes and to take action on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u142	The first concerns the measures contained in the government agreement for the WIA, the incapacity for work. I have pointed out that I thought I would answer your question, but perhaps I should have done so more explicitly that in recent years there has been a widespread increase in influx into the WIA. That has also been reason for the formation to see how we can reduce that influx. By just focusing on one side of the coin, Mr Van Kent portrays it as a measure to cover something up. No, it's about the whole package. How do we ensure that people do become sustainable and able to age healthier, and that they re-educate, re-educate and re-educate in time? We just want to make sure that the influx into the WIA decreases on both sides. But that there is a measure in the coalition agreement, yes, that's right. It's in there, saving $250 million, out of my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u143	Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u144	Second point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u145	You're right. Mr Van Kent had two points. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u146	The second point. I don't know the CBS numbers this morning. I haven't been able to read it yet. If you outline that there is indeed a high dependency on benefits during that period, I do, unfortunately, recognise that picture. I have also said in my first term to Mr Heerma that we have seen in recent years that unemployment among over 60s is higher and that long-term unemployment is persistent, unfortunately. We have taken a number of measures in recent years to ensure that older unemployed people are given more opportunities to intervene: no-risk policies, premium rebates. We have extended the IOW measure in the coalition agreement, precisely to reduce the effects of unemployment or benefit dependency. We have also allocated funds to the UWV, 70 million, for more face-to-face talks with the long-term unemployed. That has to do with this point again, because we also see it in the figures and in reality, as I hear from people I speak, that older unemployed people have a less chance of getting back in the way. I find that unacceptable. That is why we need to pursue policies. So, yes, I recognize the statue. On three, four, five subjects, the coalition agreement takes action to address this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u147	Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u148	While I am speaking, Mrs Van Brenk mentioned the older worker's ambassador. It is true that Mr De Wolf...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u149	I think Mr Van Kent can respond to this first. He had two points. That's what you agreed to. Then Mr. Van Kent may now respond. Finally, I would like to say something about Mrs Van Brenk's points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u150	Mr President, thank you. On that first point, it seems that the cabinet has little confidence that the measures it takes to ensure that people reach the finish line more healthily are working, because at the same time it reduces the influx into the WIA by tightening the accession requirements. If the cabinet had real confidence that what it intends to do would help to reduce the influx into incapacity for work, it would not have been necessary. I'd like a response to that. Secondly, these figures were presented this morning. Shocking figures, especially because they are often also about long-term poverty, over four years. 57% have been on that low income for over four years. Again the question: is the Minister prepared to do something about the income position of these people, not with senior ambassadors and I know what it is all about? And the IOW is not an answer to that either, because that is also an income at welfare level. So is the Minister prepared to take, in terms of income policy, for this group, which, partly because of the increase in the AOW age in poverty, has to wait until they reach the age at which they finally get AOW?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u151	Mr Van Kent asks two more questions. What I find striking about Mr Van Kent's speech is that he focuses on one side of the coin. I'm not running away from it. In fact, measures have been taken in the coalition agreement concerning the influx into disability schemes. That's right. What we also see, on the whole, is that in recent years the influx of people, not only among the elderly but also among young people, has increased more rapidly in the rate of incapacity for work. The government wants to pursue policies to ensure that people are returned to the labour market. I think that's a social policy. In addition to the sustainable employability, the age-conscious human resources policy, which I have just mentioned, I am not going to repeat all of them, Mr................................................................................................................................................... By calling it a 'Koolmeestruc' every time, I also think that Mr Van Kent does not do justice to the breadth of the coalition agreement, in which, even when it comes to the long-term unemployed and older unemployed, all policies are pursued to tackle these problems. That's one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u152	No, Mr. Van Kent. Please continue, Minister, with Mr Van Kent's second point. I don't think you're going to agree entirely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u153	I don't think so either, but that's happened before today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u154	I suggest you stop inviting each other to more interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u155	The second point was about the income position of people dependent on benefits. I have just said that we are extending the IOW benefit, for example. That is certainly not a structural solution. Ultimately, it is about how we ensure that people can be more active in the labour market for a longer period of time. This has to do with long-term unemployment, which has to do with the influx into the WIA, which has to do with education; the broad palette. I thought I had answered that in my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u156	Thank you. Then there was another point that you wanted to make in the direction of Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u157	When I answered Mr Van Kent's question, I realized that Mrs Van Brenk had asked about the senior ambassador. It is true that John the Wolf has stopped as an elder ambassador. By the way, he now continues his good work for the ANBO, because he has done good work in recent years. This does not mean that the focus on older people's unemployment is gone. I will shortly come forward with further plans to ensure that employers continue to pay attention to older people's unemployment, precisely to ensure that the people on the side of the labour market are given a chance to return to the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u158	Thank you, Minister. Then I'll see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. I would like to begin by giving the floor to Mrs Van Brenk of 50PLUS. I would like to say that people have one minute to speak in a second term of a 30-member debate. So I want to ask them to stick strictly to that. I'm gonna quit after one minute. So to those who have motions, I say: really start with the motions, because when the minute is over, I will cut off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u159	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I have a motion, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas applying for a job for years is compulsory and without result discourages people and makes them sick;]] [[Whereas voluntary work promotes social participation and increases the risk of paid employment;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the exemption of 60-plussers from the application requirement without any prospect of paid employment under the condition of structural volunteering,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32716-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u160	I'll take a look at Mr. Heerma. It should know this text very well, as it comes from the CDA's election programme. We hope for broad support for this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u161	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. Then the floor is for Mr. Van Kent of the SP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas research carried out by the CBS shows that among the elderly group up to 63 there is a very high level of poverty;]] [[Whereas of the 63-year-olds one in nine has a low income, more than half of which have been living in poverty for four years or more;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the causes of poverty among older people up to retirement and to send the results to the Chamber for the summer together with proposals to resolve the problem,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32716-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u163	Finally, I would like to stress that measures to help people to work, such as face-to-face contacts at the UWV, an elder ambassador, you name it, can count on our support. At the same time, measures such as restricting people's right to disability benefits are far from social. They're antisocial. Those two sides of the coin are there. That one dark side, on which I had the debate with the Minister, must, as far as I am concerned, get off the table as soon as possible, because that really is Koolmees' trick to cover up the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u164	Thank you, Mr. Van Kent. Then I'll see who needs a second term. Mr. Heerma? No. Mr. Van Weyenberg? Mr. De Jong? Mr. Wiersma? I don't. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for his second term. He's gonna have to talk to me. I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u165	The Minister shall begin his second term, in which he shall deal with the two motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u166	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the Chamber for its second term and the motions. The first motion, tabled by Mrs Van Brenk, concerns the exclusion of the job application requirement for older unemployed people. That is what we have already discussed in the budgetary procedure. The same discussion took place there. Even then, I indicated that I do not think that a generic exemption from the application requirement is a sensible idea, also because a lot of people over 60 who have become unemployed find a job and still get back to work. I don't think it's a good idea to relieve Generics. But there is customization possible, even in the execution. So I'd like to discourage this motion. The second motion, tabled by Mr Van Kent, concerns the conduct of an inquiry into poverty. I understood, also from Mr Van Kent's words, that the CBS poverty monitor was presented this morning. It was received by Secretary of State Tamara of Ark. I understand that the Chamber asked for a letter from the Secretary of State on the CBS poverty monitor at the time of the work. Let us send that letter before we discuss it with the Chamber and investigate it further. That is why I would also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u167	I'll take a look at Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u168	Then I'll hold the motion for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u169	At the request of Mr Van Kent, I propose his motion (32716), No. 28). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u170	Then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-17-tweedekamer-11.u171	We're suspending for dinner break now. At 7.30 p.m., the meeting will continue with Mr Jetten's initiative law. The votes on these motions are Tuesday.
