ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the report by the Research Council on the risks associated with the turn of the year. I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security and the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State. I give the floor to Mr Wassenberg as the first speaker, and I see that Mr Van Raak is already interrupting before Mr Wassenberg speaks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u2	That's exciting, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u3	Yeah, me too. Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u4	No, I have a point of order. The President sent a letter on behalf of all Members of Parliament to the Prime Minister on the leaking of documents. Pieces, plans, are first presented in the media and we have to respond to them, but we have nothing to respond to. On 10 April leaked from the Ministry on this subject and on 4 June leaked from the Ministry on this subject. Every time we were asked for our opinion. We couldn't give them, because those plans weren't in the Chamber yet. I think that after the President's letter, the Ministry has made a very bad decision, because more has been leaked than ever. This morning, the Minister was also addressed by an AO about the police. So I have a proposition. I want that to happen before we do the substantive debate with this minister on the leaking and lying of his ministry and what he is going to do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u5	I see no one's responding to that. Or at least, Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u6	If there is a request to support that, I wholeheartedly support it if the honourable Member asks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u7	This morning at a general consultation on the police there was a similar request from the SP. On the one hand, I understand, but on the other hand, Mr Van Raak seems to know at once where there is leaking and by whom. That's a little too easy, too. Unfortunately, we don't know. Leaking is kind of annoying, and I'd like to leave it at that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u8	So no support. Then Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u9	Mr. Van Raak would also help me if he gave a little more substance to the assumption that there was a leak from the ministry. By the way, I share the annoyance that we have to read things from the newspaper. That is very annoying and I am also curious about the Minister's response to it, but a little more content to this suggestion of leakage would also help me to better assess the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u10	A similar issue was raised this morning, and I think the Minister responded neatly to it. Maybe he wants to repeat that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u11	D66, of course, also finds it very annoying to have to read things in the newspaper first, and of course we find leakages very annoying, but we are proposing that this debate should continue now. So no support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u12	The VVD seems to suggest that they were the leak. It's possible. At the same time, it originally comes from the Ministry, so I support the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u13	I would very much like to support the request, but I think that with a brief statement by the Minister the cold might be out of the sky. The fact is, of course, that it is annoying that MPs should read plans in the media. But even as a lawyer, I can't prove where the leak is, so that's a pain point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u14	I have no objection to this being dealt with as a prealabel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u15	Mr President, may I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u16	You may also respond to it. It does not go away from your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u17	That's nice, Mr. Chairman. I had understood that last year, in 2017, I do it out of my head, 27 times leaked. Now there's been three leaks on one file in three months, so the problem is only getting bigger. So I think it would be useful to have a little order debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u18	Yes. There is, however, no majority in favour of holding an order debate, but the point raised by Mr Van Raak is a justified point. In fact, I would suggest that the Minister respond briefly. Then we can see what we can do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u19	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by saying, as I did this morning during the AO Police Department, that I find it extremely annoying for Parliament and for Members of Parliament that certain information, at least something which is suggested to be information from the cabinet, appears in the media even before we, if it is real information, have been able to send you that information in the form of a letter or something like that. And appearances of information in general are really just annoying, because that affects not only the debate I am being questioned by journalists about non-existent documents but also creates an unpleasant mood, as I am tasting with Mr Van Raak tonight. By the way, it is immediately said "the Ministry." I do not think that is the case for the simple reason that two ministries are already involved, that is one, and two that I have no reason to believe that the officials I have employed have been "actual" contacts with journalists, whatever you may call leaks. There is no clue in my mind, although you may assume from me that the times I am unpleasantly surprised, I have really watched how that happened. Mr Van Raak refers to a message that was in the newspaper at some point on this subject. That was about three weeks ago, I think. At that time, there was no mention of a piece at all. So it also has a "Hendrik Haan from Koog aan de Zaan" content. That doesn't change the fact that I understand the annoyance and I share it. Let's get that straight. We just need to be careful not to accuse people or an entire ministry of leaking and lying without having thoroughly investigated it and have proof of that. That does not alter the fact that this is... Yes, I find this a very annoying process, because this makes the vote here in the debate this evening unnecessarily hostile, not for my part, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u20	Good. Mr Van Raak, a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u21	The papers in the paper don't come from me, they can only come from the Ministry. It already started with the spring note on the extra money for cops that didn't come at all. It's definitely coming from the Ministry. Also leaks from the Ministry the views of informers, the informers of this minister who is now protecting the minister. Those informers say: we do not send it to the Chamber because then the media are less interested. It is, therefore, a deliberate media strategy of the heads of this minister, who are no good now, who have been bad for years and who say: we are sending it to the media and not to the Chamber, because then we will get less attention. As long as the minister doesn't acknowledge that, the leak won't stop. I will therefore also table a motion on this subject in my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u22	Thank you. Then I'd actually like to suggest...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u23	Madam President, I hope you will allow me three more sentences, because these are serious accusations made by Mr Van Raak. He's got to back that up, too. Just like this morning, I indicated in good faith how I'm in it and how sorry I am. If Mr Van Raak then speaks the big words that it must be my ministry or my officials, I think he should back that up too, otherwise it will indeed be a really wrong tone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u24	Mr. Van Raak?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u25	Now the Minister accuses me of lying. Then I think the Minister should be consistent and there should be an investigation. I'd be happy to take part in that investigation, but the Minister is too cowardly to do that investigation in his own ministry because he knows damn well which informers they are. We cannot accept that as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u26	Mr Van Raak, it was a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u27	I did not say that Mr Van Raak is lying. He's got to back up his accusations. Anyone who accuses someone else should.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u28	You said what you had to say about that. I suggest that we proceed with the debate. I give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u29	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Last year, the police counted almost 1,300 fires and explosions. 1,100 people had to be treated at the hospital or at the GP. We're talking about torn fingers, burns, people missing an eye. Some remain deaf for the rest of their lives. Not all the victims have turned off fireworks themselves, by the way. In about half of the cases, people were talking to neighbors on the street when they were hit by a flare. There are also indirect victims of fireworks. Lung patients, for example, and people with difficulty breathing. They are forced to stay inside and literally stick doors and windows off against fine dust from fireworks. The consequences for pets and animals in the wild are also very large. Fireworks cause a lot of misery, for fleeing animals and extremely stressed animals. Mr. Chairman. For the record, I'm talking about legal fireworks. More than three quarters of all wounded have fallen in recent years due to just legal fireworks. We can stop this shit from happening. We also know how. The police advised a few years ago to phase out fireworks and flares. Firefighters, ophthalmologists, pulmonary doctors, patient associations and animal protectors also argued in favour of this. At the end of 2017, the Security Research Council added itself to that list with a large report, 148 pages, with the first and most important advice to the cabinet: ban fireworks and flares. The cabinet had to study for a very long time and then largely ignore the OVV report and all similar advice, including from national police and doctors, and propose some half-hearted measures to allegedly limit the damage caused by fireworks. Mr. Chairman. It is incomprehensible that the government has failed to deliver the most important advice from the OVV. And based on what? Because so to speak, "large parts of the population" want to hold on to the cutting off of firecrackers and flares. "Great parts of the population," but the cabinet does not mention an investigation that would show that. In fact, surveys show that a majority of the Netherlands are in favour of a ban on fireworks, if this is linked to a professional fireworks show organised by the municipality. I would like to know from the Minister on which this decision is based. How can the advice of the OVV be ignored, if this is in line with the advice of the national police, police unions and doctors, in order to come up with a decision of which the fireworks lobby in particular can become enthusiastic? The cabinet is still considering the possibility for municipalities to impose a ban on consumer fireworks themselves, but that is precisely what municipalities are not waiting for, because the problems are moving from one municipality to another. Set it up nationwide. That's what the Association of Dutch Municipalities says. The measures that are proposed are bullshit measures. A free fireworks when you buy your fireworks or your arrows; projectiles, as the chief of police of national politics called them. But half of the victims of fireworks didn't turn anything off themselves. And what should people do with old and new wishing the neighbors the best? Do they all have to put on safety glasses? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet can arrange it itself, the cabinet can arrange it itself, but the cabinet throws the problem over the fence of municipalities. No, there's not gonna be any national policy, you take care of it yourself. And the cabinet is hiding behind Europe. We are going to use it to tighten up the Pyro directive. Go ahead. Each year more than 1,000 wounded by fireworks. We can't accept that. We have to do something about that. I ask the cabinet, the coalition for real measures, not for cosmetic changes to the current rules. Take the advice of the OVV. Forbid fireworks and flares. "Hands off our fireworks." It is on that cry that the cabinet decision is based to allow fireworks and flares. This cry is also featured in a drawing by Ruben Oppenheimer who was in the NRC in December 2016. That framed drawing, chairman, I'd like to offer to the minister. I'll do that through the messenger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u30	Thank you very much, Mr Wassenberg. I now give the floor to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The turn of the year means a celebration for many Dutch people every year, but this now applies to fewer and fewer people. The support level is therefore clearly decreasing. A poll in March of this year showed that as many as 60% of the polled PVV voters now feel like a ban on fireworks. According to the Research Council for Safety (OVV), the celebration of old and new people in many places in the Netherlands has become the most unsafe party of the year. At every turn of the year hundreds of people are injured, agents and aid workers are bombarded with fireworks and there is a serious nuisance. With the police, the turn of the year is considered a high-risk event. That can hardly be described as a party anymore. The OVV has therefore made seven recommendations in its report, of which I would like to mention three. Firstly, prohibit fireworks which, in practice, violate safety by causing injury and nuisance. Two, provide more insight into the relationship between the type of fireworks and the extent and severity of the injury, and take further measures if necessary. And three, strengthen the detection and prosecution of trafficking in illegal fireworks. First of all, we read in the reports that there would be a national ban on the sale of firecrackers and other firecrackers this year. That's off the record. There is now room for local customization. Municipalities may prohibit fireworks of their own accord. The Minister now takes the view that a far-reaching measure such as a ban is only reasonable if other measures do not work. Let me mention a few measures. Firstly, with regard to the legal fireworks, more emphasis will be placed on changing behaviour by means of information, because the cause of danger is largely due to behaviour, for example because the fireworks are thrown at bystanders. If this does not lead to the desired results, the Minister considers that a ban is not excluded. Two, from the turn of the year onwards, only flares equipped with a stabilisation mechanism may be sold to consumers. At the beginning of next year, this measure will be evaluated on the basis of the injury figures. According to the Minister, regulations on the prohibition of fireworks can be prepared during that period. But how is it measured whether an even stronger commitment to behavior change has had a result? I don't read that in the letter. And what is meant by "injury rate evaluation"? Is there a lower limit in the extent and severity of the injuries? It is, in fact, the prelude to a possible ban on legal fireworks. The police, fireworks industry and civilians would like to be clear. For my group, the choice is between two evils: people who want to celebrate the turn of the year by setting off ordinary fireworks on the one hand, and the police, who are getting worse and harder on the other. The core is enforcement: tracking and confiscating heavily illegal fireworks, preventing the firing of fireworks outside the allowed time frame, and combating the damage and nuisance caused by fireworks. That's the only way to keep the support. But the one who has to maintain it is precisely the police, who have already made a clear statement on this matter. If the turn of the year is to be a celebration for all, which my group is strongly in favour of, then the Minister must take the lead. So finally the question: what will he do with the other recommendation of the OVV? Then I'll mention more capacity and budget for tackling illegal fireworks and firm measures against violence fighters and criminal organisations behind illegal fireworks. In conclusion, the PVV does not support a general ban on consumer fireworks, but is keen to look forward to a sound national approach. Only then can safety be guaranteed during the turn of the year and it will be a celebration for all. If I may give an opinion: go work on this plan together with the police and the Association of Interests in Pyrotechnics Netherlands and keep the Chamber informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u32	Thank you, Mrs Helder. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u33	Thank you, Madam President. This morning Paul van Buitenen of the Expert Group Klokluiders presented to colleague Van Raak a review of over 800 pages on the criminal settlement of the fireworks disaster in Enschede. The last word has not yet been spoken, not even in politics. The first, cautious conclusion is that there was no proper, clear and adequate regulation prior to that disaster. Moreover, no lessons had been learned from the experience with Culemborg. This put out water during the disaster, making even consumer fireworks life-threatening. One sentence from this morning's presentation keeps ringing in my head: what happened in Enschede can happen again, at every store where fireworks are stored in a room without a roof. Closed containers can increase the effects of a fire rather than prevent it. I'd like a response from the Minister. We heard that this morning. Earlier, it was the Security Research Council that tried to wake us up with a plea for banning fireworks for private individuals. The council even speaks of New Year's Eve as the most dangerous day of the year. But also the days before, with so many outlets, sometimes in or near residential areas, it now appears to be extremely dangerous. The police are also in favour of a ban on fireworks for private individuals, as are medical specialists and mayors of major cities. Even the fireworks industry can live with a ban. Peilingen van EenVandaag and Maurice de Hond confirm that two thirds of the Dutch are in favour of a ban. On 5 February, the Minister stated that a sense of urgency and support is needed to make progress and substantially reduce the number of victims and disturbances of order. Well, that sense of urgency is there, especially after this morning. And there was already broad support. The cabinet doesn't want a ban. The argument "tradition" seems to be an occasional argument. The lighting of fireworks by private individuals did not start until the 1970s. At another, older tradition, a children's party where there are no deaths and no millions of damage, we hear from the cabinet that traditions must move along with developments in society. Old and new is certainly not a celebration for our children and our grandchildren. At the turn of the year, 33% of the fireworks victims were under 15 years of age. For our pets and the birds, among other things, it is a disaster. And there's a festive alternative. Limit the fireworks to municipal fireworks shows. The inhabitants come together in a cheerful atmosphere. Small and medium-sized enterprises can sell hot drinks and snacks in cozy, illuminated stalls. The party's fraternizing. Young and old dare to go to each other and shake hands. That's a good start to the new year. I'd like a response. 50PLUS calls for a ban on fireworks for individuals. There is a large majority outside this Chamber. 50PLUS hopes that the number of representatives in this Chamber will be greater than the number of politicians. Should such a ban not be carried despite all the signals that are on red, we are in favour of a second important recommendation from the Research Council on Security, and we ask the Minister to discuss a ban on the production of heavy fireworks at EU level. That heavy fireworks now has a force similar to the power of a hand grenade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u34	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u35	Mr. Chairman. Old and new must be a party for everyone, but it's not. According to the Research Council for Safety, the celebration of old and new people in many places in the Netherlands is even the most unsafe party of the year. One of our council members said: that in that one night a year apparently everything is allowed, I actually find it very strange. Emergency workers, such as police officers, warn of the major security risks around old and new. Mayors are calling for a national ban on dangerous fireworks. The ophthalmologist's plea is very compelling. In addition to injuries in the case of lighters and bystanders, every year there are millions of euros of material damage. The Christian Union wants to maintain the annual tradition around the turn of the year. That is precisely why we need to combat dangerous fireworks. Then let it be a party for everyone. Mr. Chairman. It is good that the cabinet is doing more to protect aid workers better. It is impossible for them to be hindered in their public tasks. Throwing fireworks at others and aid workers is unacceptable. The police have previously advocated that this be considered structuralally as an attempt at manslaughter in order to set a clear limit. Does the Minister take this suggestion into consideration? Mr. Chairman. It is also a good thing that the cabinet is fighting illegal fireworks. In the case of illegal fireworks, we see the strength increase and there are significant injuries. Criminal organisations abroad are behind illegal sales and problems are increasing rather than decreasing. The OVV reports that the intensification of the approach to illegal fireworks has so far not led to less illegal fireworks. If this can be maintained with the current capacity and knowledge and with the planned plans, I ask the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. But it's just legal fireworks that cause a lot of injuries and damage. In 19% of accidents, legal fireworks exploded too early. Burns were caused in 86% of cases by legal fireworks and eye injury in 79% of cases. Almost half of fireworks accidents, 42%, involve injuries to bystanders. The cabinet does not yet opt for a national ban on dangerous fireworks but first wants to apply and evaluate other measures. Why does the government ignore the OVV report on this point? I'd like an explanation. Mr. Chairman. However, the cabinet is taking steps in the right direction: a stabilisation mechanism, free fireworks glasses and spark plugs are required when selling flares. An evaluation will be carried out early next year and additional measures will be considered. What are the criteria for this evaluation and when will the size be sufficient for the cabinet? Is this a last chance and is the Minister considering a national ban on dangerous fireworks if there is insufficient improvement? And when is more known about research into the relationship between types of fireworks and injuries, which allows us to ban targeted dangerous types of fireworks? Mr. Chairman. One of the conclusions is also that many legal fireworks do not meet the safety requirements. This has to do with supervision by the ILT and with the CE mark. The OVV reports that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State and the fireworks industry have little idea of shortcomings in the production and testing process. How does the cabinet intend to deal with unsafe but legal fireworks through supervision and certification? Finally, Mr President. Many fireworks-free zones are already designated in many municipalities. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, the possibilities for this are being extended and the creation of a fireworks-free church should also be possible. At present, municipalities can establish a fireworks-free zone on the basis of autonomous regulatory powers. The problem is that a comprehensive justification is needed, inter alia, on the basis of whether it is in the interest of public order. My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to allow an explicit legal power for a local ban on fireworks for municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u36	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are talking about the cabinet's letter on the approach to the turn of the year. The CDA Group has taken note of all the proposals and believes that there is a sensible and balanced package of measures. The letter contains many important issues, but this evening, in particular, the national ban on fireworks will be under discussion. Let me say first of all that the CDA is not, out of conviction, in favour of fireworks. As a group, we see the damage caused by this fireworks to young people's lives, to injuries to eyes, hands and limbs, and to bystanders who themselves do not firework at all, not to mention the abuse of fireworks against aid workers and the damage they do in public space. We notice that the attitude of the Netherlands to fireworks is changing. Fireworks are part of our tradition, but these traditions are subject to change and changing social support. But, Mr President, as a CDA group, we also see that the majority of the Dutch in a responsible way are firing fireworks, including fireworks. Yes, there are places where it gets out of hand, but in many places in the Netherlands it goes well and proper, within the times set for it. What really causes nuisance and damage is the heavy, illegal fireworks. Let's be honest: despite the intensification of controls and despite the police's internet approach, buying this fireworks is a piece of cake. Last year, together with the VVD, I did a lot of work on tackling that illegal fireworks, by pushing for enforcement and by making work visits. I spent the whole New Year's Eve with the police myself to personally verify how things turned out. Overall it was a relatively quiet year, but the heavy, illegal fireworks was not to be missed. I've also started looking on the internet. It would have been no trouble for me to bring this illegal fireworks into my home, especially if I had started in good time. This also applies, of course, to fireworks which are still allowed in the Netherlands and which continue to be sold in our neighbouring countries. Mr. Chairman. No one has been able to answer me the question of how to maintain a general ban on fireworks, with open borders, with the pleasures of buying on the Internet, with a significant proportion of the population that will take the trouble to buy fireworks in this way. As a CDA, we do not support legislation that is not enforceable. You do not develop the basis for a ban by turning a button in The Hague. By taking the measures described in this letter by the Cabinet, you create the basis for action: by continuing, including to become smarter, by combating what is already illegal, by continuing to provide information and by engaging in consultation with our neighbouring countries. The platform is created at the local level by talking to each other and determining where and where not to shoot. That is why I wholeheartedly support the amendment of the law to make local bans possible, even in an entire municipality. I would add that if all these measures do not lead to an improvement, to a change, then we, as CDA, are prepared to consider another step. However, as the cabinet says in the letter, a far-reaching measure such as a national ban is only reasonable if other measures do not work. But we're not that far now. Mr. Chairman. I have another question for the Minister on fireworks. What about the proposals to use parties other than the police to monitor and transport seized fireworks? This proposal was launched just before the turn of the year last year. Is this plan expected this year? And can the Minister report on the plans to recover the costs of transporting and destroying fireworks from suspects and perpetrators? Finally, I would like to know whether the Minister is prepared to amend this year's directive on the prosecution of heavy fireworks. A community service doesn't fit here, but pre-trial detention, super-fast justice and jail time does, because the best place for a fireworks criminal on New Year's Eve is and will remain in jail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u38	Mr Van Dam says that the CDA is not happy with all wounded during old and new. That is very nice, because we share that; so does the Party of Animals. He then goes on to discuss illegal work very extensively. But is Mr Van Dam aware that the big problem is the legal fireworks? I have here a report from SecurityNL, which states that 78% of wounded are caused by legal fireworks and, in quotes, "only" 22% by illegal fireworks. The annex to the report of the Safety Research Council contains figures on eye injury. From three quarters we know the source. Not from a quarter. Of the 75% of the eye injury we do know the source of, only 7% is illegal fireworks. So 93% is caused by legal fireworks. Does Mr Van Dam agree with me that legal fireworks, which you can just buy in the Netherlands, is the big problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u39	I have read the report of the OVV very well and I know that flares are particularly dangerous, because I think they are indeed number one, especially for people around them. That is why I think it is a very good idea, as it says in this letter, that rockets are only sold if they can be shot straight with some kind of launcher. I have paid a lot of attention to illegal fireworks, and especially enforcement in that area, because of the following. If we make it legal fireworks with a national ban illegal now, enforcement will create exactly the same problem, because we are already unable to do so in the case of fireworks declared illegal as such. That's the point I wanted to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u40	I still think the focus is too much on legal fireworks. Besides, if you're going to ban it, you can also stop the sale. Now everything can be sold and you just have to see how it's turned off. If you want to avoid those problems, you will not only have to prevent it from being turned off, but also that it is being sold. That's a lot easier to maintain. You should not only look at the illegal, but also at the legal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u41	Perhaps there is a difference here about what legislation can or cannot do and to what extent legislation should also drive a certain acceptance among the population. I'll know all the polls out there and make my personal assessment of that. If we are going to ban all of this, a lot of people are going to make their own choices, either by mail order or across the border. I don't choose that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u42	I'm trying to understand this. The CDA has a lot of confidence in fighting illegal fireworks. So we have to bet hard on that, if I understand the CDA correctly. Then why not expand the category of what is illegal fireworks and bet hard on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u43	I am glad that Mrs Buitenweg is asking, because she did not understand me correctly. I don't have such a huge confidence in the current approach to illegal fireworks. In fact, I have called on the cabinet to do more about this during the period under consideration. My point is that this is already a huge job, which only succeeds with limited success. Progress is being made. I'm a big supporter of the police project "Oorwurm." We're actually just at the beginning of doing that successfully. This is an additional argument for me not to get very excited about extending the ban just as widely. It's already a huge job to maintain this heavy-duty illegal fireworks, which is really dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u44	Together, we have found that most of the injuries are caused by the legal fireworks, which is where the biggest problem lies. The CDA says that fortunately measures are taken for this, some tubes for example so that the arrows no longer go in all directions. Is it the CDA's intention to maintain that? Is the CDA going to spend capacity checking whether those precautions are being used?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u45	Once again, I am glad that Mrs Buitenweg specifically asks me to do so, because she has not fully understood me on this point either. Legal fireworks will undoubtedly cause more injury, simply because it is more available. When I'm talking about throwing fireworks at policemen and causing explosions, my fear is much more tied to those heavy-duty illegal fireworks. If I get an e-mail from people who say an avalanche is being shot at people, those are the things we need to worry about. That's the stuff that's already heavily punishable at the moment and it's already taking a lot of effort to maintain it. More is not always better than good in this respect. We must be careful not to shout ourselves into what we are all criminalising.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u46	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. Finally, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u47	Hundreds of people have eye damage, and that's not necessarily because of those heavy-duty illegal fireworks. It's because of fireworks, which, for example, shoots in the wrong direction. I experienced that myself once and fortunately had fireworks on, but many do not. One of the measures taken by the cabinet is those pipes, so that the flares that are fired are more stable. I do not understand why you have any confidence that this measure will lead to a reduction in the number of injured. Do you think those pipes are going to be widely used? Is that what the police are gonna use? Will that be checked? Do you really think that's gonna help?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u48	I think fireworks are an excellent subject, and it is true that getting society with them is the only way to really maintain them. Parents who sit down with their children on New Year's Eve, women with their husbands and men with their wives, and say: we know how dangerous it is. How are you gonna handle that tonight? In that light, I think the proposal on flares is a next step. In my contribution I have already indicated it and so the cabinet wrote it in the letter: We are going to try this. Let's see if this works. I am very much in favour of this being evaluated and then looking at what it has achieved. But with the best will in the world, I really do not believe that, if we criminalize this nationwide, it can be enforced. I just don't believe it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u49	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u50	Mr. Chairman. I have always been strongly opposed in my group to a ban on fireworks in any form whatsoever. That was not always the view of the whole group... I found it patronizing and it was a tradition and why do we have to break it now? I see you smiling, Mr. Chairman, because you probably recognize the discussion. But I have to admit, I've gotten so quietly sliding. At some point you can no longer deny what it's doing to every old and new, not only in material damage, not only in financial damage, not only in physical damage, but also in violence against and danger to our aid workers, our police officers, our paramedics, our firefighters. If you see that all the other measures have not worked sufficiently, not even the handling of illegal fireworks, not even the enforcement itself, then there comes a time when you have to wonder if your old position, which felt so safe, is still so safe. I and my group have come so slowly to the point that we think that further steps are needed. That's why we found the OVV's advice balanced: first look at that fireworks, look at the flares and see if you can make a first step in making old and new safe again, making a pleasant party in the weather for anyone who wants to enjoy old and new. The cabinet doesn't choose this. I regret that, but my appeal to the cabinet is to be honest about that. Honestly, I think it's quite a laugh when you say that you take the advice of the OVV completely and then you come with a safety glasses and a tube in which you can put your flares. That would make you act like you're taking over the recommendations, when, of course, it's a wash nose. Safety glasses do not prevent finger shots or broken feet or damage to houses or even holes shot in police car windows. Shields of the ME are not resistant to the fireworks that are now in circulation. Does the Minister recognise himself in statements by Minister De Jonge, who said at the end of the Council of Ministers: with the safety glasses and with the flarer, do we meet the questions that lie ahead? Isn't that a joke? Mr. Chairman. If you then opt for second best and give municipalities the responsibility to choose whether or not to ban them, will you also help those municipalities to make such a ban possible? Are there gonna be any extra cops? Are you gonna decide what you forbid or not? Are you going to help them enforce it, because that will be very much needed, especially if there are large differences between municipalities? Municipal boundaries are limited. The mayor's call was not for nothing to come up with a national policy and not to do it separately. If you choose it then, my question is how you will facilitate the municipalities in it. Finally. Mr Van Dam, too, is calling for a tough approach to all kinds of illegal fireworks, but that's just where he sits. That is what we have been calling for years, and it has not helped so far. And that is also in a lack of enforcement and capacity. I would also like to repeat my question to the Minister: when is it going to be serious and do we have enough capacity, people and resources to make it a serious solution? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Arno Rutte on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u52	Mr. Chairman. The debate on fireworks has become more and more a social debate. That's what it turns out to be today. Where fireworks were still an undisputed part of the New Year's tradition in the Netherlands twenty years ago, more and more discussions have developed: discussion about the injuries that may arise from fireworks, from blindness to mutilation or even death, and discussion about the problems in the field of security and public order that arise partly through the use of free fireworks. It is therefore logical that the Safety Research Council carried out research into safety at the turn of the year and looked specifically at the role of fireworks. It is also logical that we should have the debate on this today. Of course we all worry when we read the reports of accidents, mutilations, sometimes even deaths at the turn of the year. Of course we understand that older people or people with pets are scared to death when they unexpectedly get a firecracker thrown in front of them. The simplest solution would then be to ban fireworks, and in particular fireworks. Yet we are not going along with that. Firstly, we believe that not everyone should be the victims of a small group that ruins it for the rest. Very many people enjoy a New Year's Eve with friends or with their children. It's a popular tradition, with a glass of champagne, an oil ball and some fireworks to enjoy: the excitement when a big flare goes into a bottle and is lit, the arrow shoots up, and the oehs and the ahs as the arrow bursts into many beautiful colors; the tension when you light a firecracker, waiting for the bang, which always sounds just unexpected and different than you expected; the joy as it turns out that the package with fire pots brightens up the night with fire spitting fountains in all kinds of colors and shapes. The people who enjoy legal fireworks with their families and their neighbors in this way do not cause any trouble. They don't scare anyone, and if they handle fireworks wisely, such as wearing glasses and lighting the fireworks properly, they can do it without danger. The second reason why we do not want to ban fireworks is that it does not solve the problems. Most injuries, the most severe injuries, are caused by illegal fireworks. Bombs are ordered on the internet or taken from abroad. You can't solve that with a fireworks ban. In fact, the need to get it from abroad will only increase; Mr Van Dam said it. So we need to keep working on the illegal fireworks. That's where the solution is. At the same time, we must, of course, ensure that the nuisance is reduced by maintaining tight firework when and where fireworks can be turned off, by protecting the elderly, by setting firework-free zones, for example around nursing homes, and by putting those areas where the fireworks really cause safety problems. Municipalities have different existing means for this, which they should, above all, use and also dare to use. Let us also be positive about the results achieved in recent years. The number of incidents has decreased significantly again over the past year. The number of fireworks incidents has fallen over a year from 3,573 to 2,674. The number of destructions decreased, from 2,328 to 1,622. The number of fire reports dropped by 13%. The number of people with fireworks injuries to the emergency services decreased by 8% in the last year and by more than half for 10 years. The figures show a strongly declining trend. It's been for years. Current policies are effective. However, it is worrying that the amount of violence does not fall during the turn of the year. This includes violence against aid workers. This violence is unacceptable as far as the VVD is concerned. Therefore, in the past, the VVD called on the PVV to impose a public service ban on people convicted of violence against aid workers. Mr. Chairman. Let us not let our end-of-year tradition be demolished by the group that ruins it for the rest, just as we do not ban alcohol because a small group of drunks roam the streets and destroys it, and as we do not forbid cars because some road pirates do not know how to drive safely. Let us make full use of the resources already available to deal with the nuisance with local customisation and to detect and eliminate the illegal fireworks as much as possible. In this way we can look forward to a beautiful new year in the coming years. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u53	Mr. Rutte has a wonderful story about the oehs and ahs when you see fireworks, the flares. He almost gets moved by that. Maybe he should also listen to the groaning and groaning of the patients who have to miss an eye or who have a torn hand. Perhaps he should also look at what is happening on the policy and on the plastic surgeon, or there is such enthusiasm. He actually says that the good should not suffer from the evil. But think also of lung patients, people who suffer from the fine dust that penetrates everywhere. Is the VVD also a match for lung patients? Can people with lung problems expect anything from the VVD? Because it's not just the fingers torn off, it's not just the eyes shot out, it's not just the pets fleeing. It's also fine dust, an assassin who can make thousands of people really miserable. Those are the invisible patients. Is that what the VVD is thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u54	Mr Wassenberg comes up with a number of things at the same time. Torn fingers and eyes: it's really dramatic when that happens. But let's be honest and look at the numbers. I told you, they've been more than halved in ten years. More than halved; so it's really going very well. Every eye injury and every hand injury is one too many. But then you end up in a world where you say: if you don't want to have a car injury anymore, you have to ban driving. That's not what we're from. But you can drive safely. This also allows you to handle consumer fireworks in a safe way. And that is what we are in favour of. Banning everything may be more appropriate to the world of Mr Wassenberg but less in my world. The same applies to lung patients. Of course, fireworks are not healthy for lung patients. Furthermore, the fireworks promoted by Mr Wassenberg, organized by the municipality, are equally unhealthy for lung patients. There's gunpowder in there, and there's smoke in there. Lung patients are as unhappy with that as they are with consumer fireworks. But apart from that, in society, it is ultimately a bit of a wiggle and weigh. If we were to allow fireworks to be fired all year round throughout this country, this would be irresponsible, especially in the context of what, for example, are suffering from lung disease. But when it comes to a limited period in which it is allowed, in the context of a beautiful tradition that many people can enjoy when dealing with it in a decent way, we make the weighting that it should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u55	Mr Rutte can say that the 1,100 cases that have to go to the doctor or even to the hospital, because that is what we are talking about, there are very few. But there are 1,100, of course, that's way too much. Especially when you see it's in a very short time. Mr Rutte says that the number has fallen considerably, but why has that number decreased? Because the cutting times are quite limited. That is maintained. Shouldn't you bring those cutting times back to zero, because then you really get a significant reduction in the number of victims? That is my first question: should you not limit those times even further, preferably to zero? Still, about those lung patients. In fireworks shows you can see for yourself where you keep them. But putting off consumer fireworks is so diffuse. Everywhere in town that happens, except for a few zones. That's what's really bothering people. The moment you organize a show as a municipality, you can control it all yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u56	I took the numbers anyway. The number of reports of fireworks injuries to the emergency services was once the 1,100 Mr Wassenberg outlined. That was in 2007. Right now, ten years later, we're down to less than 500. So it's just halved. That is still too much; I would prefer that there was no injury at all. But these are the numbers that the emergency services themselves have announced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u57	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u58	One correction. I was not just talking about the emergency services, I was also talking about the 700 cases that should be dealt with by the general practitioner. 474 plus over 700 is over 1,100. I would like to give Mr Rutte that mathematics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u59	That can undoubtedly be true, but that does not mean that the number of notifications to the emergency services has been halved. And there is no reason to assume that it was not halved at the same time by the general practitioners. Eventually, you're gonna make a weighting. Mr Wassenberg might be right if it were the case in the world that when we legally ban consumer fireworks, people were not going to get the fireworks illegally. But he might be right that if we ban the fireworks, the injury is completely gone. But then I really get to the same point I mentioned earlier: if you ban cars, then the injury caused by cars is also gone. That's serious, isn't it? In the end, we are trying to make transport as safe as possible, but we are trying to balance the various interests. I also think this is important about fireworks. If we were to fire fireworks every day, that would be ridiculous, but if it could be as safe as possible for a short time around New Year's Eve, in the context of a tradition, I would be in favour of it. I sincerely hope that next year we will have even better safety figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u60	The VVD mentions a number of figures from which you might conclude that it is moving in the right direction. Has the VVD also seen that the number of victims up to 15 years old is actually increasing a very vulnerable group of people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u61	The general trend is declining. It can be certain that the number of victims among certain groups is increasing. I too am not enthusiastic about that; I am honest about that. I think it's important that people handle fireworks responsibly. That is why I also support the measures proposed by the cabinet, from fireworks to launchers. Those are measures that matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u62	Thank you. Then I'll go to Mrs. Den Boer on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u63	Mr. Chairman. Every year we have a debate around the turn of the year. Again and again it is about tradition, party, the many victims and the violence against police and ambulance workers. In the meantime, we are six months ahead. Today we are debating the same goal: how do we make Old and New safer and how do we preserve this traditional celebration? The report of the OVV had an important part in this discussion. D66 welcomes the government's taking steps now. Six of the seven recommendations in the report are accepted. In doing so, the cabinet is taking serious measures to make the year's turn of events safer. However, my group wishes to make an important comment. If there is no result, the cabinet does not exclude a ban on flares and fireworks. D66 also chooses the path of graduality. The cabinet rightly draws first of all from other measures that are now possible or already in place. Of course, D66 also has questions and comments. First of all, the expansion of local opportunities. The position of the municipalities is unclear. Problems during the turn of the year differ between cities and rural areas. D66 therefore also stands in this discussion for municipal freedom to make policies of its own, as opposed to a national ban. In my group's view, it should be possible to make a town entirely fireworks-free. Does the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State agree with D66? I put this question to both the Minister and the Secretary of State. Together with the Christian Union Group, I have prepared a motion on this point. Secondly, a comment on the European approach. A major problem remains the illegal fireworks that enter the Netherlands through other Member States. That has to be different, but the cabinet remains a little vague on this point. There would be no basis for strengthening European legislation. It takes a lot of time, the cabinet says. But what has the Dutch Government already done to convince other Member States of a coherent approach? What possibilities does the cabinet see for itself? I would like to hear concrete steps, because the European approach needs to be improved. From this point on, I express my support and thanks to all the aid workers and agents who literally enter the line of fire during the turn of the year. Last year, there was also the fact that the police were walking around on her gums. Agents worked overtime during New Year's Eve after a debilitating reorganisation. It's a good thing the cabinet's spending extra money on extra agents. A number were also mentioned today during the AO, but I am increasingly looking at the Minister of Justice and Security. Does he consider the capacity and enforcement for the coming year to be sufficient? Then there is the Inspection Environment and Transport, which, with the new measures, receives a large number of additional tasks, while the capacity is already scarce. Can the Secretary of State explain whether the ILT can actually carry out the new tasks? D66 also finds it unacceptable for aid workers to be hindered and for violence to be used against them, but I know that the punishment for assaulting aid workers has already been considerably increased. This measure should not be a tissue for bleeding. Can the Minister explain the existing penalty increase? To what extent is it already being applied? What's the effect? Does a sentence really scare people off? Finally. We are discussing a huge package of measures today. That's great, but we're nowhere if we don't know the effect of that. I would like to hear from the Minister and the Secretary of State how they will explicitly measure the effects and whether they set certain targets. I'd like a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u64	A brief interruption by Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u65	Mrs Den Boer thanks the police and the emergency services. I fully agree with that, but is Mrs Den Boer aware of the fact that the police unions feel completely offended by the fact that the government completely ignores the most important recommendation of the OVV, namely a ban on flares and fireworks?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u66	Thank you for this question. I note that the cabinet accepts more than six of the recommendations of the OVV report. I think this is a great step and a realistic step, given that all these measures need to be looked at in greater depth in their jointness. For example, I think it is very good that we are now going to look at the possibility of a local ban on fireworks, i.e. a fireworks-free zone that applies to the entire municipality. I think that is a very important step which will certainly have an impact on local enforcement. At least, I hope to learn that from the evaluation later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u67	I guess I didn't put my question right. Mrs Den Boer gave a whole answer about what was good about the opinion, but I asked if she knew that the police unions felt completely offended by the fact that the first important recommendation of the OVV was completely ignored. I'm not talking about the six that have been taken over. I am talking about the most important one, namely a ban on flares and fireworks. Is Mrs Den Boer aware that the police unions feel offended by ignoring that recommendation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u68	Mr. Wassenberg, I'm not going entirely with your language. I haven't seen the word "offended" in social media or in the coverage. Of course, I've seen the police worry about that. The police will be strengthened with additional capacity and will be much more present at the next turn of the year than at the last turn of the year. The coalition agreement states that resources and people will be made available for this additional capacity, both operational on the streets and detection capacity. I think that's a very good first step. I hope the police will be able to agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u69	Let's talk about community service in cases of violence against cops and aid workers. I hear Mrs Den Boer asking questions to the Minister. In the past, under Rutte I, on behalf of my group, a public service ban was included in the law for those who love it, Article 22 (3), in order not to impose community service on violent and sexual crimes. That has been evaluated and it appears that the judges do not comply with it. Does that make Mr Den Boer's position on this point different?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u70	I hear Mrs Helder's question. Firstly, we have stressed that we find violence against aid workers and against the police unacceptable. That's very important. I think we share that, too. We share that concern and we absolutely want something to be done there. However, we would like to see, if there is an increase in penalties, that also produces effects. We are very curious about that. I also asked questions about this to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u71	One last question. I was thinking for a moment, because I heard D66 say: let's start with a number of measures and see if that helps and it's good that a large number of recommendations from the OVV have been taken over. If this does not lead to a reduction in the number of victims or does not lead to a reduction in damage, is D66 in favour of the adoption of the one measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u72	We can see, of course, that more than those six recommendations are actually taken over by the cabinet. There is also the stabilization of the flares, which you yourself mentioned in an earlier interruption. What is very important is that, if you have listened carefully, you have heard that D66 goes along with the government's argument that if these measures are not going to work, then the door is open, or perhaps a little more than a crack, for broadening the measures, and that could mean a ban on fireworks and flares.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u73	So I wasn't asking the cabinet, I was just asking you. I thought maybe just a simple yes or no could do it. 'Cause can we do it? Yeah, there can be anything. You can make a proposal and I can always think in two years' time whether or not I'm gonna say. In fact, it is just a question of whether if it turns out in two years' time that the stabilisation, the other six measures and the whole social media information campaigns do not have the desired effect, then D66 is in favour of a ban, as proposed by the OVV. Or do you say, even then, we should look at it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u74	I have stressed in my speech, Mrs Buitenweg, and President, because I keep forgetting to mention you, Mr Buitenweg, that we attach great importance to the monitoring and evaluation of the measures that are now being taken. If it shows that the measures taken do not produce the desired effect, for example, reduction of injury, reduction of damage, and that sort of thing, we are going to look at it again. We share with the cabinet the path of graduality that is possible. We will then be very interested and interested in the possibility of introducing a ban on fireworks and rockets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u75	Thank you, Mrs Den Boer. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to say, I think New Year's Eve is a fantastic party. It's cold outside, warm inside. I can always consider my sins of the past year and make many good intentions for the new year. New Year is a celebration of transition where traditionally the old year is said goodbye and the new year is inaugurated. From the seventeenth century this was done by prominent citizens who symbolically fired gunshots in front of the house of the notables. That went well, I'm just saying to Mrs Buitenweg. From the 1930s onwards, the lighting of fireworks became an individual matter. It wasn't until then. From the 1950s onwards there was also more decorative fireworks, first from the Chinese communities. I notice New Year's Eve is a great party for family and friends, but also a moment when you see your neighbors, also people you might try to avoid at another time. It has something forming, it has something in common. But is there also a very black edge to that party and that is the fact that there are deaths, that there are wounded, that there are young people being mutilated for their lives and that the rest of their lives have to carry with them. What I also find irresponsible at the moment is that we are giving our people an impossible task: our policemen who have to maintain order, our firefighters who have to extinguish and even our paramedics who have to save people's lives. In far too many places in the country, it goes very wrong. I can also see that that is very different. In some neighborhoods things are going well and in some neighborhoods things are going badly, structurally. In some municipalities it is simply impossible to do anymore and in other municipalities it is simply a celebration. In some municipalities beautiful municipal fireworks shows are held, and that could also be done in a neighborhood or at street level. The four major cities have asked the Security Research Council for an investigation and I welcome that investigation. There are a lot of good things in there. I note that the government, the minister, is also taking over a lot of that, but also a number of things are not or are not good enough. When it comes to dealing with illegal fireworks, the detection capacity really is far from sufficient. Take The Hague. The police are there at full strength and have the hands full to maintain the order. They really don't have time to go after those fireworks criminals. That's an illusion. You can promise, but you can't do that. It also says here that you should treat New Year's Eve as an event. Yes, that is very good, because then it can be well thought out, but it also requires a lot of capacity. And as long as under this minister the capacity will actually decrease in the coming years rather than increase, I see none of that happening. Something that police people are very disappointed in is that the ban on dangerous fireworks is not being taken over. And then I had to think about the leak of April 10th. At that time RTL, I believe, was leaked that a ban would be possible for municipalities. Then I thought maybe that's not such a crazy idea. But on June 4, another leak said that the VVD was not allowed to do so. Well, the Minister's gonna have to answer what's going on. I'm not leaking myself; I can't help it either. That's all the Ministry. I see major problems with a ban, which I would like the Minister's opinion on anyway, if we were to make a total ban by now. Because you have the border area, so you cycle across the border or go by car to get everything. Then there's the Internet. So you can order it. You're gonna maintain that? And yes, fighting illegal fireworks... That is such an incredibly large criminal organization worldwide. Compared to that, our police are really only in their infancy. So we have to be a little careful when we think that if we issue a ban here, it will be resolved. I think there is a lot to be invested in organisation, capacity and offering alternatives, including for a fireworks show at street or district level. So I'd like to ask the Minister to... I'm gonna finish, because I can already see him in contempt, Mr. Chairman. I think it is right for the Minister to say that municipalities should be able to provide customised services here. I actually think this is something that needs to be regulated in municipalities. Municipal councils, mayors should be able to do this, because it's so terribly different in every place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u78	But I'd like to ask the Minister why he doesn't allow a ban in municipalities. I think the experiment of the next two years will have a chance of success.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u79	If you stop looking at me, I know you won't listen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u80	I thought I had an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u81	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u82	Excuse me, Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u83	I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u84	Thank you, Madam President. I think the colleague didn't realize I was giving him a standing ovation! Mr. Chairman. We had a general meeting this morning about the police. A number of people have already referred to this. The Minister stressed how much he did not respect the people on the streets, the men and women who guard our security, and how much he trusted our police chief Erik Akerboom. Now the police are very much served by a ban on fireworks, as a number of colleagues have said. Even before the OVV report, Mr Akerboom said: "Against the destructive power of certain fireworks, we simply cannot protect our people and animals anymore, any more than other aid workers and citizens. It's really 5:12. That is why we are calling for a ban on fireworks and rockets." Of course, the OVV report says something similar. That's why I thought there'd be such a ban. That's what it looked like when you look at the different letters. At the end of December, the Minister wrote in a letter: firm measures are needed. In February he underlined that the turn of the year is and will remain too unsafe. There was a sense of urgency and "one big package." Indeed, on my birthday, 27 March, I read that Minister Grapperhaus and Secretary of State Van Veldhoven had made proposals to follow up the OVV's proposals to ban fireworks and flares. Instead of powder fumes, it was just the smell of change in the air. But then what happened? Maybe the Minister could give us a hint of the veil? How does the mouse's decision that lies ahead of all the strong elephant words in the letters and to the police's question to help them make old and new a safer party, a celebration for everyone? I cannot escape the impression that emotion often prevails in the cabinet. We see it in Minister Dekker's proposals on conditional release, we see it in Secretary of State Harbers' proposals on bed, bath and bread, and here too. It's not the facts, but it's feeling that prevails. Mr. Chairman. The latest letter from the Minister shows a glimmer of hope, because it says that if the information campaigns and all these other measures are not effective, more robust measures will not be excluded. It's kind of like standing by the high diving board and saying you're really gonna jump next time. I would like to know when the Minister considers that the measures are not successful. Is that if there are fewer victims in the emergency room, fewer eyes are damaged, fewer car fires, fewer destruction, less public violence? In short, when is sufficient damage done to the Minister to take the promised firmer measures? In this respect, I agree with a number of other comments that have been made, that it is necessary to know what the level is now before we can know whether an evaluation has been successful. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the turn of the year must be a celebration for everyone, with beautiful decorative fireworks and fireworks shows organized by the municipality. A night the emergency services don't have to be afraid of either, because we'll make sure it's safe together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u85	I hear you all saying things about the trial and about the letter and the mice and elephants. I assume you're in favour of a total ban. I was hoping you'd explain how you maintain that. I can't hear you say anything about that. I would like to ask you how you see it, because I might be able to learn something from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u86	In fact, the group simply wants to join the OVV report as it stands. I am therefore in favour of banning the flares and the fireworks. So we're not going to ban everything completely. I also find the SP's proposal very charming to ensure that it is done at municipal level. Because I can imagine that this is also something you'd like to discuss with the municipal authorities. So I would very much like to await the Minister's reply to that. But that is actually where the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is now standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u87	But then I don't know where you stand at all. 'Cause either you say I'm in favour of a total ban. Or you are following Mr Van Raak, for whomever I thought: where does he go in his whole story, where does he end? But he didn't end up in a national ban either. So point one. I would very much like to know where you stand as GroenLinks. And point two. If you think there should be a national ban, how? How do you maintain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u88	GroenLinks has not been in favour of the huge fireworks powder vapours as they are being emitted for a long time. I'm sure you're aware of that. Every year, under the guidance of Arno Bonte in Rotterdam, there is a fireworks reporting point where people can report nuisances. Those reports are increasing year after year. You can see that more and more people are complaining about that. Now GroenLinks has representatives at national and local level. As a party, we are in favour of things not getting as out of hand as they are now and of organised fireworks shows being offered by the municipalities. For me, that decision can be taken at national or local level. Mr Van Raak asked: can it actually be done at municipal level? I think that's a very interesting question. You can rest assured that the representatives of GroenLinks will support the same thing at both local and national level, namely having municipal fireworks shows and severely limiting consumer fireworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u89	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u90	I don't get it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u91	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u92	Well, that's a... I mean, it might be late for Mr Van Dam, too. I think I've been pretty clear. I'd love to explain it again in a moment, but I think he might also need a more open look, so he can understand what someone's going to say. Mr Van Dam, I have just explained to you what I am for. I'd like to explain that to you in jip-and-janneketal. I'm afraid that's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u93	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u94	Madam President. Everyone agrees: there must be an end to the disturbances during the turn of the year. That's a quote from about ten years ago. At that time we had a report from the Commission on the change of year and it was said: it is really time to do that; we really need to take action! And that wasn't the first time, because there were police reports a few years before under the title "How quiet?'. 'Cause you know what else is a tradition? In order to make the misery that always happens very much more relative: the serious injuries, the enormous damage, the massive alcohol abuse and the violence against aid workers. In this respect, there is also simply an out of control tradition. We shouldn't put that into perspective. We have to face that honestly. Mr. Chairman. What is a real development in those ten years is that we are seeing more and more support for limiting consumer fireworks. That makes sense to me, by the way, when you consider that banging and so on had its origins in driving away evil spirits. Well, if you believe less in evil spirits, then it also makes sense that you don't experience the need for banging so much anymore. That seems to me to be a continuing trend. Mr. Chairman. In the light of that long history, I find what's ahead a little too slow and too thin. If this was the first time we've talked about it, I could imagine. But we've been talking about it for so long. And then I come across a sentence in today's letter: 'We note that the social debate is in full swing, but that this does not yet give rise to a uniform question for the government'. No, yes, if we have to wait there! Nor did you say in the weed experiments that there is a uniform question to the government from the population, but there is a very clear movement. And look at all those reports out there. How many reports are there now that say: take steps? It is not enough for us to have some information and some half-measures. Despite the slogan "You're a bull when you're with fireworks stunt" and other information it's still rush hour on the Emergency Service. A mandatory stabilization mechanism for flares, fine, but the figures show that you can avoid at most one third of the flare injury. For years the fireworks that are sold legally have not met the product requirements. The cabinet says that a risk-driven approach is increasingly being adopted. Yeah, we heard that five years ago. And then there's a lot of unsafe fireworks. Mr. Chairman. If we allow all these facts to work on us, we would welcome the follow-up to the recommendations of the Research Council, including in order to ban the fireworks and the flares. Actually, that's a very valuable good step to take. Therefore, I do not find the arguments put forward to be convincing. Mr. Chairman. As far as we're concerned, a relapse option is room for a municipal ban on fireworks. On the contrary, this raises many enforcement problems. I believe that a national approach, including from the point of view of enforcement, is much stronger. And to what extent would an increase in the age limit, for example from 16 to 18 years, as is the case with heavier fireworks, be a relapse option if flares are not banned? To what extent has the cabinet thought about this? Does it see anything in that? We have also talked about a fireworks tax, an environmental tax. Is thinking about that... Or let me put it more positively: is thinking about it still on the move? I also heard the Secretary of State today talk about promoting the environmental damage caused by fireworks, i.e. the imposition of a tax on fireworks. Finally. What the cabinet does want is to spend those glasses. Are you sure that's gonna take another year? Come on! Surely that can be arranged a little faster, namely at the next turn of the year? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u95	That is a glowing speech by Mr Van der Staaij. I like that. In it, he took back to ten years ago. He then made a whole speech in which he said: nothing has really changed in ten years; it is still a great misery. He ends up with: so we should actually come up with a firework ban. I'll summarize it very quickly. But now let's take a look back at ten years ago. Then the number of reports of fireworks injuries to the emergency room was 1,100. That's well under 500 now. Over a year, the number of fireworks incidents has fallen by almost 1,000, the number of innovations has decreased significantly, by some 800, and the number of fire reports has fallen by 13%. If you conclude that, then you can't hold on to the fact that nothing has changed in ten years. Surely, then, there is a marked decline in misery, while preserving fireworks?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u96	It is sometimes a different picture in terms of places and years; I agree with Mr Rutte. I also agree with him that there are a number of improvements. But I still think there's too much trouble. Then I simply refer to the reports of the Security Research Council that we have. They do not take on board the highly relativistic tone that Mr Rutte is using here today. It's not for nothing that they argue it. I'm not making it up. They have taken a good look at what is happening and say: that would really be a measure. I think that is also very much in line with the fact that I hear this in my environment and I see it in surveys too, which more and more people are saying that especially that fireworks, which sometimes is illegal fireworks and seems to be getting louder and more explosive, are causing enormous nuisance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u97	About the misery of illegal fireworks, we can set up a very big tree. That is already forbidden, so we cannot ban it any further. That's not gonna make any sense. Nor do I deny that the social trend is changing. I just told you that myself. The debate is therefore taking place. However, I am concerned that Mr Van der Staaij gives the picture that the facts have not changed for ten years and that the picture has remained the same in ten years. I outlined a lot of figures showing that things have changed radically too, whatever you think about it, whether you still think it's too much or too little. Does Mr Van der Staaij recognise that this is indeed the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u98	There have also been improvements, but I do not think it has changed radically. For me, it is a constant fact that there is simply far too much nuisance, damage and violence against aid workers at the turn of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u99	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u100	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u101	That was the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u102	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u103	Thank you, Mr President. A lot of questions have been asked about our letter. The Secretary of State and I will answer those questions along the lines of our portfolios. I shall begin by addressing the issue of trafficking in illegal fireworks, enforcement and protection of aid workers. The Secretary of State will then address the questions that have been asked about consumer fireworks and the regulation of fireworks. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the report of the Research Council for Security of 1 December last year on the security risks at the turn of the year and the cabinet position on the recommendations made by the OVV in that report to the State Secretary for Infrastructure and Water State and me. The last turn of the year also made it clear that the findings and conclusions of the OVV, the Research Council, should lead to measures to reduce injury and disturbances of public order during the turn of the year. We reported to your room in March about the last change of year. It is good to note that there is once again a reduction in injuries and disturbances of public order. The downward trend in recent years has continued during the last turn of the year, but that is not enough. More needs to be done. Before I go into that further, I would like to stress that the reason for the report of the Research Council is not the celebration that the turn of the year should be complete and that Members of Van Raak and Van der Staaij also referred to so beautifully, including the tradition of fireworks, with which we want to deal well. Because, unfortunately, every year we have to observe that a small group of people has different intentions for this party. In doing so, they pose a danger to fellow citizens and to aid workers. That is unacceptable, during the turn of the year and also during all other events. This applies in particular to violence against or obstructing police and other aid workers. I find it impossible for those people, aid workers, instead of cooperating and getting all the space, to be hindered or, worse, to be subjected to violence. I will come back to that, but I do illustrate that less festive side of the year. Again, where the vast majority of people behave normally and within the framework of the party, this nuisance is only caused by a small group. Where the Secretary of State and I were able to inform your Chamber as early as December that we supported the conclusions of the Research Council report, we have since considered how we could implement the recommendations. We believe that this package of measures represents a major step forward which has taken account of the complex interests involved, as far as possible on all sides but in balance. Mr. Chairman. The problem of the change in the year also varies from one municipality to another. This requires local customization and no national ban. Tonight's NRC Handelsblad will host interviews with two mayors of municipalities. You can see how different these mayors have to do with problems. It requires local customization, not national ban. It is also the triangle that decides locally what measures are needed and what measures the triangle wants to apply. I would like to say to Mrs Dikkie, among others, that she was at least the first to do so, that we want to examine, together with the VNG, how a local ban could be set up. At the moment, according to a statement by the Council of State, it is theoretically already possible to extend a fireworks-free zone to the entire area of a municipality, but a legal anchoring would also be possible in itself. I come to the questions that have been asked. Local authorities have been asked to have the legal power to impose a ban on fireworks on the basis of public policy. I have already said something about this on the basis of the ruling of the Council of State. The explicit inclusion of such legal competence makes it easier for municipalities to decide under the currently applicable possibility of designating fireworks-free zones, which could therefore cover the entire municipal area, as the decision could be more easily justified. Questions have been asked about the danger posed by fireworks to the police. Several spokesmen attach the consequence of the danger posed by fireworks to police and emergency workers that fireworks should be banned. However understandable, such a ban is aimed at a very small group of people. It therefore affects the very large group that traditionally celebrates the turn of the year in a responsible manner. We must not forget that the turn of the year is mainly a celebration celebrated by people at home and on the streets. Mrs Buitenweg asked what our criteria would be for us to determine whether or not measures are effective and when, as we say in the letter, we will come up with further measures. Now, SafetyNL investigates the injuries caused by fireworks every year. It provides measurable information. In recent years, a declining line has clearly been visible. I said in my introductory text that this is good in itself but that we are not yet there. The OVV talks about a "significant reduction" without precisely determining it. The Cabinet doesn't do that now. In any case, the Secretary of State and I believe that the downward trend in the reduction of injury incidents should be continued. In any case, this is a criterion of effectiveness. Then there's the investigation and prosecution. This is, of course, particularly about the illegal trade in fireworks. The challenges in this area are great. Trade has never been so easy, with orders over the internet and delivery via mail packages. It is unnecessary to repeat the dangers to postal parcel workers and the public. The cabinet is therefore strongly committed both to countering purchase via the internet and to tracking mail packages that send fireworks. Mr Van Dam has rightly referred to it: last year the Police Earworm project showed how effective action can be taken on the Internet. Continuation of such actions therefore pays off. With technological innovation, fireworks can be better detected in postal packages. I will soon be informed on location about the use of a so-called sniffer, in order to establish the presence of gunpowder in postal packages. The unprecedented flow of mail packages that we are faced with also forces innovation in other areas, namely information exchange and analysis, to be targeted and cooperation between investigation services. The cabinet is also explicitly committed to this. Last Friday, in my investment plans for the future, I announced that 64 million will be invested in ICT, including advanced detection ICT. Mr Van Dam asked whether the Minister could ensure that possession of illegal fireworks would not be done with community service. First of all, the prosecution is acting harshly against fireworks offences and crimes, including possession of illegal fireworks. Of course, as always, all the circumstances of the case are taken into account. In the end, proportionality also plays a role in this. I would like to stress that last year's prosecution policy has been strongly pursued by the Public Prosecutor. Mrs Helder asked about the improvement of the detection of the trade in illegal fireworks in response to what was stated in the letter. Improving detection is not the same as increasing detection capacity. It is also possible to improve detection without extending the use of police forces. I have already pointed out to you, Madam President, how to make better use of available information in all investigation services, investing in digital detection and means such as the sniffer. Furthermore, we must realise that the detection of illegal fireworks takes place all year round, not just in the month of celebration, although the intensity increases during the last six weeks of the year. By the way, the detection of criminal organisations also includes the aspect of illegal fireworks. Mrs Helder and Mrs Dik-Faber asked what we meant in the letter by the organisational measures in the search. Intensifying the search doesn't just require additional capacity. It can also be achieved by better deploying existing capacity. This has mainly to do with the creation of more partnerships between environmental specialists and forensic specialists when it comes to fireworks that have been confiscated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u104	I can't really find a clear structure in the Minister's response. I have asked a number of questions that have not yet been answered. He doesn't answer in the order of the spokesmen and apparently he doesn't answer on the subject, so I'll give it a try. I shall return to the questions in a moment. The Minister talked about a falling line in the fireworks incidents and refers to an investigation of security.nl. I've looked at that research, too, and then look at the past few years. I can see that this reduction in the number of incidents and the number of injuries is due to a reduction in the time spent cutting off. Wouldn't it be a good idea, then, to bring those cutting times all the way to zero? That's my first question. You cannot say that this policy is very good, because it really has to do with the cutting-off times. Then I come to my second question. The minister says that it differs from one municipality to another, that it all requires customization and that there should be no national ban. That is completely contrary to what the OVV says. Will the Minister be able to respond to that at some point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u105	The Secretary of State addresses the issue of the ban on consumer fireworks. The other point you're referring to: "Will bringing the cutting times to zero also bring the injury to zero?" This brings us to the point that is in fact completely forbidden from firing fireworks. I have said that there is a consideration that a small group of people who behave irresponsiblely makes the party impossible for a very large group of people who deal with it within limits of normality. I am sensitive to that argument and will look with my own critical eye at how the measures we take will work out at the beginning of next year and that year after.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u106	The idea that a small group ruins it for a larger group is very common, indeed also in the use of soft drugs, which someone has already pointed out. We often react differently to that, but okay. I would like to come back to the Minister's point about the downward line. He says we're gonna test every time if there's a downward line. He wants to do that early next year and at the beginning of the following year. Do I understand that every year there is a date when the Minister or the Cabinet will check whether there has been a downward trend? And is there going to be a proposal for a ban if it is not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u107	The letter states: "At the beginning of next year, this measure will be evaluated on the basis of injury figures and whether additional measures relating to flares are needed." I think that sentence leaves nothing to be desired for clarity. I may not take the point put forward by Mr Van der Staaij as a full question at the outset. I mean not so much the evil spirits as the point of inertia. The Secretary of State and I have put in place a package of measures which is also very much in line with the report of the Research Council. In our view, this should enable us to change the issue of the change in the year. It must, of course, take a turn for the better. That's what the letter says. We will certainly look at it at the beginning of next year. We're not gonna do that every three months; there's no point in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u108	I'm not asking you to. I'm still trying to get a little more clarity. The Minister says my letter is very clear. I read in it: "If this does not lead to the desired result, we will not exclude a ban." But now the Minister says: if the damage and the number of wounded do not show a downward trend, then we are prepared to proceed with a ban. Is that the line? If there is no reduction, will this cabinet propose a ban?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u109	I can read the quote again, but the letter is really pretty clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u110	I just read a quote for...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u111	Mrs. Buitenweg, don't...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u112	No, you didn't read a quote, you paraphrased.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u113	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u114	Maybe we can read it to you at the same time, see if it's congruating, but I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u115	That's gonna be tough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u116	Do you want me to read you a quote?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u117	Yes. First, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u118	On p. 4 states: "At the beginning of next year, this measure will be evaluated on the basis of injury figures and whether additional measures relating to flares are needed. This is without prejudice to the fact that there is also a responsibility for society to handle fireworks safely. Rules on the prohibition of fireworks may be prepared during that period." That's the quote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u119	Well, you, Mrs. Buitenweg. What quote do you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u120	Then I'll bring Pag. 3. The Minister says that additional measures can be proposed. I want to know whether these additional measures can simply be a ban on fireworks. To pag. 3 states that one wants a change of behavior. Then it says: "If this does not lead to the desired result, we will not exclude a ban." That's what it says. If you are prepared to reword this sentence: "If this does not lead to the desired result, we will impose a ban."?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u121	I find no reason to change the wording of a letter that we have composed together. I think it says very clearly how we are in it. It's a sentence...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u122	May I post a second interruption, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u123	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u124	It's not the same. You say that we do not exclude other measures. Those other measures could be anything. Fireworks can be made extra expensive. You can add a few extra reinforcements, you can add a double pair of glasses. All this falls into the category of 'extra measures'. My question to you is to put this passage on page. 3. Suppose there are more victims or at least the trend doesn't go down, let's say there are no fewer victims and less damage. Is the conclusion of this cabinet that it is then necessary to impose a ban as proposed by the OVV? Is that a yes or a no? It's pretty simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u125	If the measures we propose in this letter do not lead to the desired result, we will not exclude a ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u126	This is gonna be a bit of a repeat. Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u127	I will continue on the same point, because this is really crucial for my group as well. The OVV has submitted a weighted opinion, and the cabinet has reasons to say: we take many recommendations, but one recommendation is not. The assumption is that the measures proposed by the cabinet will increase security. My question is this: if this safety does not increase, and if, for example, that line is only a little bit down, is the OVV report back on the table in full width?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u128	That report by the Research Council for the people in the public gallery is quite explicit, rather than the abbreviation's' is on the table. So it's still on the table with us both at the beginning of next year when we start evaluating.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u129	The government expects the measures proposed to be in line with the downward trend. But what if that line doesn't fall substantially, but just a little bit? I am looking for the government's expectations of the measures it is proposing. I can imagine so well, also looking at the OVV report, that we are running into the situation that it is not enough. Are we really prepared to say to each other the advice of the OVV: okay, then we are going to take that last step, which is to remove the most dangerous fireworks from the market?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u130	We're not ruling that out, very clearly. I want to make that clear. You know, I say this through you, Mr President, to Mrs Dik-Faber, because I think that we should still be able to make that critical weighting in hand with that report at the beginning of next year. That's my responsibility. I think that the two of us will not be happy afterwards if we commit ourselves to a purely numerical formula, "x + c," and that should be the outcome. I have told you before that we think that I must read this text to you as well, as I said earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u131	Mr. Wassenberg, you've just been! Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u132	Yes, Mr President, but I still haven't received an answer to one question, namely how the Minister got here. We have that report from the Security Research Council; that's 160 pages. We have a whole series of other reports, which are older and which actually just fit in. The report of the Research Council is a very thorough report. Next, the Minister writes in Recommendation 1: "On the other hand, we also see that large parts of the population want to stick to firing arrows and fireworks." I do not see that, because the surveys and surveys I see show precisely that a large part of the population is against fireworks and says: we prefer shows. In recent years, this has been an increasing number. What's it based on? I have the feeling that this is the only argument the cabinet has put forward: there are large parts that like it, so let's do it. What's the investigation? What investigation? Can the Minister make that clear to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u133	You yourself say: there are all kinds of investigations. Today, I believe, the NRC also quotes a survey of political parties, which I have not been able to verify, quite frankly, because I do not know that research. But the point is still that which I have formulated a few times as a starting point. The turn of the year is a celebration in the Netherlands. This is how it is experienced by the vast majority of the population. This vast majority of the population has associations with oil balls, a New Year's conference, games and fireworks. The Council of State's ruling I mentioned earlier even raises the point of setting off consumer fireworks as intangible heritage. At least that's something that happens to the vast majority of people. I think I have heard very clearly today in the speech of Mr Van Dam, Mr Van Raak and Mr Van der Staaij, for example, and indeed in that of Mrs Kuik, who is no longer here, that they see a development in how we look at these things and we must do so critically. That's what the Cabinet did. We have accepted six of the seven recommendations of the Research Council. And no, we're not gonna limit cutting times to zero minutes or impose a total ban. The Secretary of State will deal with this in detail shortly. Because then you get that because a small group with irresponsible and often even reckless behavior is blocking things, we would make it impossible for the vast group. Excuse me, Madam President, I repeat myself, but it is an important motto in this whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u134	The Minister repeats himself, but still doesn't answer the questions I ask. He's talking about games and oil balls. I can also say wet fingering. Because all I'm asking is what research the verdict is based on is that large parts of the population want it. The minister says "I think," "I suspect," "I find," "we see." We now have the reports of the Security Research Council. We've got those other reports. The minister mentioned a few more of which he immediately said: I don't know them. We have seven recommendations from the Security Research Council. Six are being taken over. The most important one is ignored. What research is it based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u135	This question has been asked by several Members of Parliament. So I assume the Minister will take that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u136	There has also been an investigation among municipalities. It is a point that has not yet been discussed in such a way that the UNG clearly also makes noise about these different experiences in municipalities. There are a large number of municipalities where this problem does not arise. These are municipalities in areas where, for example, carbidshooting is controlled. But these are also municipalities in the rest of the Netherlands where very ordinary fireworks are turned off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u137	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u138	I would like to say something, Madam President, through you to Mr Van Dam and Mrs Dik-Faber in particular about illegal fireworks. The RIVM report indicates that Dutch regulations on the strength of flares are already restrictive compared to neighbouring countries. That's something we need to take into account. A ban will therefore always pose the risk of the fireworks being removed from Germany and Belgium. We have also seen this increase in recent years when the fireworks classes in the Netherlands became stricter than those other countries in terms of the ban. I had stayed with Mrs Den Boer, who asked what we are going to do to make real progress in criminal cooperation with other countries in Europe. You know from the discussions with my predecessors that criminal cooperation is difficult. Causes are the other national legal systems, lack of priority and protection of domestic industry, but also very different levels of restrictions. They are really much less strict in Belgium and Germany. For the rest, it remains a tough issue. OM and police use the information well to make it clear to those other countries at least where the interest lies. For example, the Office has been in Slovakia over the past period and bilateral consultations have taken place with Polish authorities. These are countries where a lot of fireworks are produced. Then there's the...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u139	Finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u140	I went to the intensification of the detection of the illegal trade in fireworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u141	Mrs. Den Boer wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u142	D66 considers cooperation in Europe to be of great importance. The Minister talks about criminal cooperation with other countries, bilaterally. He says that this is complicated, but I can imagine that it is perfectly possible, for example, to go out with other countries through enhanced cooperation. What, for example, has the Minister done in the Benelux to work together? On social media we sometimes see beautiful pictures of visits by the minister to Antwerp. Perhaps it was another place to emphasize the cooperation there. I would like to ask the Minister what countries he has actually spoken with about strengthening cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u143	To begin with, I note that unfortunately it was only a warehouse outside of Antwerp where I was toured to see how people deal with the undermining crime. Nevertheless, I was in Antwerp. I can assure the Chamber that I am also engaged in international bilateral and multilateral talks on this subject. The Secretary of State will comment on the ILT in the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u144	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u145	An important point: the cost of transport and destruction. Earlier, I announced that I would like to go to the situation where those costs can be fully recovered from the offender. That is a complex legal issue. There's a case at the Supreme Court right now. We've been waiting for the verdict on that case for some time. It was supposed to have come last Tuesday, but it hasn't been published yet. That case may have been apprehended. Should the Supreme Court decide that the recovery of costs does not require a new legal basis, I can immediately make meters with the State's Attorney's Office. We will really do that, because we also notice that if the offender is caught in his wallet, then not only him, but also his surroundings will receive a very strong signal. I've asked the D.A. to advise me on this. If the Supreme Court does not see any legal basis, I can announce to the Chamber that I will examine whether this is a legislative issue. In both cases, I shall return to your Chamber; that is what I am saying. The deployment of investigation services is controlled by the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Chamber has already been briefed by my predecessor on the way in which the Strategic Environment Chamber has included fireworks in its implementation agenda. The Environment Chamber under the chairmanship of the functional public prosecutor shall allocate the capacity for the investigation. The Strategic Environment Chamber makes an assessment of the necessary capacity of the deployment of investigation services and prosecution by the Public Prosecutor's Office. Mrs Den Boer has asked if I am prepared to deploy more police for enforcement. It is really a power of the local triangle to determine how big the stakes are during the turn of the year or other events. I shouldn't get involved in that. Moreover, the capacity available to detect and enforce bodies is limited, and I would certainly like to admit this to Mrs Den Boer, even though the cabinet is investing heavily in the police. Capacity must therefore be used efficiently and effectively. Mr Van Dam has asked for other parties to be involved in monitoring seized fireworks. Here Mr Van Dam is touching on a difficult problem, which is not easy to solve. I've had to admit that to your room before. Moreover, I cannot yet give an answer on Mr Van Dam's question. We are currently consulting with the relevant authorities to see how we can find a solution. I hope to be able to give a ruling to the Chamber in the autumn. I hereby undertake to inform the House in any event in the autumn, so that I may also be heard if I do not have an answer. I want to end with the point of obstructing aid workers. I did, indeed, pay my respects to the police this morning. As the Chamber is aware, I have recently made a lot of work visits to watch and to hear from the police themselves how certain problems play, including this year-end problem and the problems of other events. The police deserve my full support. From this responsibility, I am now preparing to amend the Penal Code in order to make the obstruction of aid workers criminal in such a way that criminal action can be taken even better than is the case at present. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u146	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State... Mrs. Helder first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u147	About the last point. It can also be done with the VAO Police. I also heard the Minister say this morning that he is going to involve this in a separate bill to amend the Code of Criminal Law for the obstruction of aid workers. This morning, as far as my group is concerned, it was mainly about violence against aid workers. There's still room between obstruction and violence. Is the Minister going to go into that in greater detail?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u148	Sure. Both will be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u149	Good. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is an important report and therefore an important debate. The Chamber has already held an exchange of views with the Minister on a number of points. I will answer a number of questions concerning the opinion of the OVV to ban flares and why we have submitted another proposal to the Chamber. I shall then turn to a number of points on the evaluation. I would also like to say a few words about the quality of legal fireworks and then go into some of the looser points that have been mentioned, such as the environmental tax, glasses and some of them. I shall begin with the opinion of the Safety Research Council on the prohibition of flares. The aim of the OVV to propose this measure was to prevent injury. In particular, the OVV calls for attention to be paid to bystander injuries. This means that the ban for the OVV is not an end in itself, but a means of preventing that injury. So we're working on the same goal. The use of this medicine makes the use of flares impossible for everyone. The question is whether that is the only means by which we can achieve the goal of reducing injury. So I asked RIVM if they had any other recommendations. One in three injuries by flares is because the flare does not go straight into the air. The RIVM report indicates that many of these injuries can be effectively prevented by measures such as the wearing of fireworks, the use of safe flares and the use of launch tubes for flares. RIVM also indicates that a ban on flares carries the risk that they will be removed from Germany and Belgium and that there is a real risk, given enforcement. With the package of measures we lay down, we will avoid that risk. Moreover, it is also a package that not only tackles this injury due to accidents with flares, but also with cakeboxes, combiboxes, ornamental pots and so on. It thus contributes in width to a safer year's turn. That is, of course, the combination of the stabilisation mechanism, the spectacles and the wicks. With this we hope to achieve a result on a broader group of fireworks that is used regularly than only flares, which the OVV rightly notes is of course also causing a lot of injury, injury that we all want to reduce. So how are we going to assess some of you: Mrs Helder, Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Buitenweg, whether these measures are sufficiently effective? The Minister has already said something about this, but I found the combination of what Mr Van Dam said and what we ourselves wrote in the letter an important one. The minister said you can't make it a mathematical formula, but the minister and I both think it's important that we continue the decreasing trend in injury that we see. Of course, you have to go through with it in the same order of magnitude. Then there will be a weighing moment, after such an evaluation, involving, of course, that the social debate, as Mr Van Dam said, is shifting. So we'll do the evaluations. The letter clearly states that we do not rule out a ban. In fact, it says something that legislation can be prepared in the meantime. We have also taken certain measures before, excluding certain types of fireworks: baby arrows and Roman candles. So it's not some kind of taboo to do that either. You just keep looking at whether it is the most effective measure and whether it could be the only one to achieve this effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u151	The Secretary of State also refers to the passages in the letter concerning additional measures, including Recommendation 1 from the report of the Security Research Council. It indicates that regulation can be prepared. Is the Secretary of State also prepared to start with this, so that we can take equal measures at the moment when the evaluation shows that no reduction has been made?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u152	On the one hand, I want to prevent us from using capacity, legislative capacity, before we know if it is necessary. On the other hand, I understand Mrs Dik-Faber's question, because, of course, we have a cycle here that goes from year to year, you have such a ban, if you choose to do so, and you have to allow regulation to take quite some time. So I can imagine Mrs Dik-Faber's question. Perhaps in parallel with how we are doing this now in another file, namely deposit money, I do not see why we should not, so I would be prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u153	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u154	Mrs Dik-Faber asked for criteria and asked when the investigation would become known. Directly after the turn of the year, research will be carried out into the consequences of injury caused by which type of fireworks. This research will be shared with the House of Representatives, just like in recent years. On the basis of this study, the types of fireworks that cause which injuries and how the measures help to reduce them will be examined. Mrs. Helder specifically asked how you measure behavior change. Each information campaign shall subsequently be measured using a representative group which shall indicate to what extent they have responded to the campaign and to what extent the message has been received. This has been a positive response over the past year. A response has been given in relation to the fireworks campaigns, so we continue to focus on this. Mrs. Kuik asked how is maintained on the launch tubes. The ILT test if the flares are stable and test if the tubes are correct. If the arrows or tubes do not meet, the ILT rejects them. The importer must then have it destroyed at his own expense or adjusted in such a way as to satisfy them. Mr Van der Staaij referred to the age limit. I can imagine that if, after the evaluation, we find that this is still insufficient, we will consider the issue of age more closely at that time. Then I come to the quality of legal fireworks. I think it is very important that the report by the OVV also highlighted the importance of improving the quality of legal fireworks. When I look at the causes of fireworks accidents, I see that in 30% of cases it is because of the product. Also my little boy gets to light some fireworks with New Year's, legal fireworks. He does that neatly with glasses on and neatly with a fuse. And I'm assuming we buy it neatly at a fireworks store and that its quality will be good. I think a lot of people who turn off themselves or let their kids light it off, go to the fireworks store with that confidence. Then there really is evidence to see what we can do about it. A number of questions have been asked, including the CE mark. That is a responsibility of importers. They shall ensure that the fireworks they place on the market comply with the essential safety requirements. In addition, on top of that, fireworks must comply with the safety requirements of the Fireworks Decision, because here in the Netherlands we have a headline on European policy, one might say. In addition to the CE marking, we have imposed stricter requirements, for example on the amount of gunpowder in fireworks. The Netherlands is therefore already stricter than the countries around him. The ILT supervises this and acts in enforcement if the fireworks do not comply with the essential safety requirements or the Dutch rules. If that's the case, offenders are ordered to pay a penalty. They also have to pay the destruction costs of the rejected fireworks, so they have lost their income or have to incur repair costs in order for the fireworks to meet the requirements. Mr. Chairman. In view of the seriousness of this report and the size of this group, I have really come to see which things we can explore further to see if the quality of fireworks can be monitored more closely. That's why we're gonna do a few more cases. The legal possibilities will be explored whether administrative and criminal action can be combined and whether an administrative fine can be introduced. So we are going to explore the legal possibilities of introducing the administrative penalty instrument. A third point is that we see that importers are now deliberately packing fireworks in small batches. The ILT must test fireworks by batch. So if you have only a small piece tested, even a small piece will be destroyed once it has been tested. Now we want to investigate whether we can oblige importers to prove that the other batches from the same batch do comply. This has yet to be legally explored, but it could help us get out of the handiness of small batches. Furthermore, at European level, we are going to focus even more on the improvement and operation of the CE system, for example by exchanging information on the functioning of inspection bodies between the EU Member States and using it to strengthen the Pyro Directive. We will also explore the possibilities to extend the powers of the ILT, so that the ILT can also inspect abroad. This possibility also exists for road transport in the Benelux context. Sanction will then take place in consultation with the country where control is carried out. Knowledge sharing with environmental services. The ILT may share information about importers placing structural fireworks on the market that do not comply with the safety requirements with the environmental services so that those services, which renew the authorisation, may involve this information in their decision-making to grant importers an environmental authorisation for the storage of fireworks. If you are not allowed to store it, it also makes little sense to bring it to the Netherlands. A further question was asked about the capacity of the ILT. Today, this morning, I discussed with the Minister in the debate on the annual reports with the Chamber and promised her that we would ask the ILT if she would be able to carry out all these tasks, including the explorations I have just outlined, with its current capacity. We have already agreed to return to the Chamber on this. Then Mrs Den Boer asked a little more about the actions at EU level, related to the ILT. The ILT is an active member of the Administrative Cooperation Working Group (ADCO) for pyrotechnic articles. The cooperation in ADCO is aimed at monitoring the product safety of consumer fireworks and at combating illegality with heavy explosive fireworks. Recently, the German supervisor has sought cooperation to increase the maintenance of fireworks stored in Germany and intended for the Dutch market. This will make it possible to maintain more effectively and thus also to assess the quality of these fireworks and to take appropriate measures. Recently, the Danish supervisor has also investigated the quality of fireworks. Belgium has also responded positively to this approach and may also receive a follow-up. And people drive a little less easily all the way to France for a package of illegal fireworks. That is why it is so important that we at least have this cooperation with the countries around us. When it comes through a mail package, the Minister has already replied. Then Mr Krol asked why no roofs are used to store fireworks. According to the Fireworks Decision, all stores of fireworks must be equipped with sprinkler systems. In addition, pressure relief must take place through the door and not through the roof. Mr Van Raak has also asked Parliament questions about this. The Minister has already answered them along these lines. Then Mr Van der Staaij asked why the glasses cannot be banned already this year. This is because the Fireworks Decision must be amended accordingly. Or no. Why the obligation cannot already be introduced, that was Mr Van der Staaij's question. Let's not start with banning fireworks. Then the evaluation isn't gonna work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u155	Angry spirits.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u156	Yeah, it might have been an evil ghost who wrote this down. I will not change the nature of the debate by asking Mr Van der Staaij if he no longer believes in evil spirits and therefore accepts the recommendation of the OVV. Then we'll have a different debate. No, it's about making the glasses mandatory. To this end, the Fireworks Decree must be amended. That means Council of State, EU consultation, and we just don't make it anymore. I can't do that anymore in procedural terms. It's gonna be ready next year. In the meantime, we have made agreements with the industry to make the glasses available on a voluntary basis. So at least it is already largely followed up. The stabilisation mechanism shall be included in the Consumer Firearms Designation Scheme. This is a lower form of regulation. We can do it faster. Well, you can do that this year. As far as fireworks and fuses are concerned, therefore, the sector is already volunteering as much as possible. Then Mr Van der Staaij asked why I did not introduce a levy on fireworks. A levy on fireworks does not make the effect any different and makes it relatively more attractive to buy illegal fireworks. Therefore, no such charge was chosen. Then there is a final question about the municipalities. The Minister has already said a lot about this. Mrs Den Boer also asked for a response. In the letter sent to us by the VNG, they also say that the effectiveness of local policy can be increased by giving more policy space for municipalities to determine, in coordination with police and emergency services and in cooperation within the region, where fireworks should and should not be turned off. So it gives the municipalities the opportunity to tackle it effectively where it is a problem, by all means necessary, but not to ban it in municipalities where it is very quiet and there is actually no problem. This is also in line with the diversity of situations in the Netherlands. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions put by Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u157	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u158	Mr. Chairman. It won't surprise anyone. The Animal Party wants fewer victims from fireworks, less misery for lung patients, less stress and less panic in animals. We want the OVV report to be fully taken over, with a ban on fireworks and flares. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, at the turn of the year, hundreds of victims in the Netherlands were killed each year by the stabbing of consumer fireworks, resulting in serious personal injury;]] [[noting that one third to half of the fireworks victims are bystanders or passers-by who do not themselves stand up and that more than three-quarters of the fireworks injury is caused by legal fireworks;]] [[noting that lung patients suffer greatly and become ill from fireworks vapours and the high concentrations of ultraphine dust due to consumer fireworks around old and new;]] [[noting that at the end of 2017 the Safety Research Council recommended banning fireworks that, in practice, the greatest safety breach is caused by injury (fire arrows) and nuisance (fireworks);]] [[noting that national police, firefighters, doctors and mayors are also in favour of such a ban;]] [[Whereas professional fireworks shows can be a safer alternative to the firing of fireworks by citizens on the streets;]] [[calls on the Government to take full advantage of the advice of the OVV and to prepare a ban on the sale and removal of fireworks and flares,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Buitenweg and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-527]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u159	And then there's a minimo, Mr. Chairman. 'Cause as long as that firework ban's out there...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u160	No, quickly get to the motion, because you are running out of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u161	Oh, excuse me. Very briefly, as long as there is no ban on fireworks, we want municipalities to have every opportunity to impose a ban. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to give municipalities the power to impose a municipal fireworks ban as long as there is no national ban on firefighters and firefighters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-528]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u162	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u163	Thank you. Mrs. Helder. No? Then I'll go to Mr. Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u164	Thank you, Madam President. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is broad support in the police, mayors, medical specialists and the Dutch population for a ban on fireworks for individuals;]] [[Considering that fireworks produced annually by private individuals cause a large number of victims and a great deal of material damage;]] [[Whereas there is a festive alternative in the form of municipal fireworks shows;]] [[calls on the Government to work towards a ban on fireworks for individuals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-529]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u165	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the strength of heavy blasting is comparable to the strength of a hand grenade;]] [[Whereas there is hardly a market for heavy-duty professional fireworks;]] [[Whereas heavy fireworks are primarily owned by amateurs;]] [[calls on the Government to address the opinion of the Safety Research Council on a ban on the production of heavy professional fireworks at EU level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-530]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u166	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u167	Thank you, and I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u168	Thank you, Mr President. I see that speaking time is limited, so I shall now confine myself to thanking the rulers for their response and the commitment made. I'm going to read the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, according to the Research Council for Security, the celebration of old and new people in many places in the Netherlands is the most unsafe party of the year and the firing of fireworks leads to injury, including to bystanders and aid workers, and to material damage and nuisance;]] [[Whereas municipalities designate fire-work-free zones on the basis of the autonomous powers provided for in the regulation, but this competence is limited in practice and has a heavy duty to state reasons;]] [[calls on the Government to create an explicit legal power to make municipalities completely fireworks-free;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the introduction of this competence is accompanied by expert monitoring of the impact on injury and injury, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Den Boer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-531]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u169	Mr. Chairman. Although accidents occur in traffic, we do not prohibit driving. That is a very important argument for the VVD to continue to attach to the fireworks tradition. A lot of people enjoy fireworks a lot. I can now once again look forward to sitting around the fireplace at home this year, with an oil ball and a glass of champagne in my hand to go out on the street to turn off legal fireworks in a decent way. That should remain possible. I wholeheartedly support the direction taken by the cabinet to take a number of measures to keep that legal fireworks well regulated so that we can look forward to a safe, good and pleasant year-end in the coming years. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u170	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Den Boer on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u171	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering the many questions. We have had a good debate on the many measures that have been announced. I shall confine myself to reading the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, following the examination report of the OVV, new measures are being introduced with the aim of making the turn of the year safer;]] [[Whereas the public debate on the withdrawal of part of the legal fireworks is ongoing;]] [[Calls on the Government to carry out an independent evaluation of the effects of the newly introduced measures in 2019, with explicit involvement of the OVV's opinions, the experiences of municipalities and the police and the progress of the social debate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Boer and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-532]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u172	I'm just trying to understand to what extent that's different from what the cabinet is proposing. On the contrary, I felt that it was also the idea that after the coming old and new things will be evaluated again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u173	As you have just heard in my speech, D66 underlines the importance of an independent evaluation which evaluates all the effects of the measures announced. We think this is very important, because on this basis we can see whether these measures work well and hopefully lead to less injury and less damage. Then, on the basis of these new data, we can consider further steps to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u174	I'd like to distinguish the roles, because that's the cabinet and this is the party. I'm just trying to understand for a second. Does D66 represent something that hadn't been proposed by the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u175	D66 considers it very important that an independent evaluation of all measures is carried out in good time. We also think it is very important for the Chamber to be well informed about this and that we can consider further action on this basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u176	With Mrs Buitenweg, I would like to look at the tightening-up of the cabinet, otherwise it would be unnecessary. You don't mean that. What is the added value of this motion in relation to what the cabinet has put forward? Is it a little sharper, namely that there really should be a ban, as advocated by the Research Council, if the problem remains the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u177	You can consider the motion as an extra move in the back for the cabinet to take this very seriously, to really take a good look at it in the evaluation and to weigh all the results into further steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u178	But taking an evaluation seriously is so common; it gives so little direction. Then Mr. Rutte says again: there are ten fewer people going to the emergency room, so things are moving in the right direction. Are you satisfied? So how do you measure that? When is the time now for more stringent measures for D66? I would also like to congratulate you for taking the step towards the municipal ban, because D66 was always against it. That was the old Party for Animal Motion, so to speak, which we have always supported. Now so does D66; welcome. But what should happen more or else for a next step?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u179	D66 of course considers it very important to enable mayors to make their own assessment in their congregation, because the situation is different everywhere, and they can take all of that with them. So we have always been very much in favour of this. But we really want all the measures that are being taken to be subject to an evaluation, and not to be lumped together, but to really look at their impact per measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u180	I usually let this go, but I'd like to say something about it for once. The Minister and the Secretary of State make all kinds of promises here. I think this is just a commitment. It's in the Acts. Then, as Members of Parliament, we can all type and put all these commitments into motion again and say that we also think it is very important, and 'we think it is even more important' and 'I really think it is important' and 'it is a little support in the back', but it is superfluous. It's been agreed. There's nothing in the D66 motion that hasn't already been promised. So I would say: don't do it, otherwise we'll just keep each other on bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u181	I think the motion is important. I also hope that the SP, like D66, can underline the importance of an external and independent evaluation in order to have a stick behind the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u182	No one thinks it isn't. No one agrees with that, no one here in the Chamber, in this building, and even with the ministers. Everyone agrees with this, also on the terraces outside and at home for the television; everyone! Then we can put forward motions for this, and we can file infinitely many motions, whether 100,000 or 100,000, but that doesn't make much sense. It's all so D66 and it all takes a lot of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u183	I just thought it was very much des SP's to want to have a good evaluation with each other, so that we also really have a clear basis on which we can go further in the debate on measures to be taken. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u184	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Raak. Yes, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u185	Mr. Chairman. I welcome this debate. We got somewhere, about at the leak from, I think, April 10th. Then there was a leak, I think at RTL, that municipalities should be allowed to ban dangerous fireworks. That has been denied again and we have received another letter here in the Chamber, but I am glad that we have reached this point, because I think that this is really a local issue: a local decision by the city council, the aldermen and the mayor, because every municipality is so terribly different. In some municipalities, the situation is unsustainable and there is a real need to intervene. Then the government's package is too little and a ban would be a very good means, but in many other municipalities there is not much going on and you do not have to ban it all. I therefore welcome Mrs Dik-Faber's motion, which I am going to support wholeheartedly. In that respect, it's nice that we've come this far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u186	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u187	Thank you, Madam President. With that positive tone of my predecessor, I would like to continue. I think it is very good that measures are being taken. I am also pleased that there is a broad consensus that something really needs to change. I am really helping everyone hope that the proposed measures will actually change something; I do not think so, but I hope so, of course. GroenLinks is in favour of the fact that there is in fact still a ban on fireworks and rockets. That hasn't been settled yet. It has been promised that an evaluation will be carried out, so this has already been promised. I think that's a very important moment. For me, how we measure that remains very crucial. Is that true as soon as there's a drop? And is the conclusion that there will therefore be a ban? The latter remains a bit above the market, but I am already seeing a major shift, especially in comparison with the years before. In that respect, I count my blessings and wish us a safe old and new.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u188	Thank you. You're here early, Mrs. Buitenweg. Then I will go to Mr Van der Staaij, on behalf of the SGP. Do you have a motion with something about evil spirits or eyes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u189	No, Mr. Chairman, I don't think fireworks help against evil spirits. So I am not going to table a motion on that either. I do believe in counting your blessings, as Mrs Buitenweg has also pointed out. If I wanted to count the blessings, it would indeed be that I now see that the old idea on which the Party for Animals has already tabled motions in 2015 and also in the years after to enable a municipal ban has been taken over by the coalition parties and that a party such as D66, who has always voted against it, is now in favour of it. I really think that's a win, because you see a broader basis for that. On the other hand, I must mention that we hear from mayors just these days that they have a real enforcement problem only if they are going to ban it and if the fireworks can be sold in the neighboring municipalities. It is therefore not the case that it is the solution for all the ailments. In fact, developments are continuing. In the meantime, on the basis of the report of the Research Council, there is not for nothing more and more support for further measures than those which we loved very much in 2015 and which are still an extra valuable step. However, we continue to regret that these further steps by the Research Council are not being taken. The Minister referred to today's NRC. I thought, "Why does he do that?" But I get it: just the VVD mayor insisted on a ban. So it was a message in the direction of the VVD: pay attention, there are also other sensible VVDs who say "listen to the practice and the VVD-choosers, who also want to go that way." Mr President, my time is up and I am going to finish. I have a very short motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the costs of fireworks nuisance and damage and the use of public services substantially exceed VAT revenues;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for a levy on the sale of fireworks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-533]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u190	Mr. Chairman. I shall concentrate on the motions for resolutions on the items Nos. 527, 528, 529, 531 and 532. I'm just gonna start with the motion in part no. 527; why not? This motion by Mr Wassenberg was supported by Van der Staaij, Buitenweg and Krol. I'm dissuading the motion. The motion says that the opinions of the Research Council must be fully taken over and that a ban must be prepared. I have, I think, sufficiently explained why the cabinet does not favour it and I have justified it. We have written a clear letter on the report of the Research Council. This motion is therefore not recommended. The motion in part No. I would also advise against Mr Wassenberg's 528. That motion states that there should be a power for municipalities, and the basis for that power is not entirely clear, as long as there is no national ban on the use of fireworks. That would already suggest that a two-stage missile is being launched and that we do not accept the evaluations we have announced. That is why I reject the motion, in which the idea of a national ban runs counter to the inclusion of local jurisdiction in the law. Also the motion in part No. 528 is therefore not recommended. The motion in part No. Mr Krol's 529 calls on the government to work towards a ban on fireworks for private individuals. I also advise against this motion. I refer to the letter from the Secretary of State and myself for further explanation. The motion in part No. 531, by Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Den Boer, calls on the government to create an explicit legal power to make municipalities completely fireworks-free. If I may read it in such a way that it is a question of creating an explicit legal power for municipalities or the competent bodies in the municipalities to make municipalities completely firework-free... I am also looking at Mrs Dik-Faber through you, Mr President: if I may understand, the verdict is Chamber for this motion. Didn't I go too fast?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u191	The operative part thus becomes: "calls on the government to create an explicit legal power for municipalities or municipal bodies to make municipalities completely fireworks-free'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u192	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u193	Maybe it's okay if I change the motion like that, because that's exactly the intention. Then we all know what we're voting on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u194	Yes. Judgment Room. Thank you. (NL) Mr President, then the motion for a resolution on item No. 532, also by Mrs Den Boer and Mrs Dik-Faber. I think it is a good thing that an independent evaluation should be requested here, involving, in particular, the experiences of municipalities and the police and, in particular, the social debate. I'll leave that motion to judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u195	It's not support policy, so I'd like to know exactly what it adds to the Minister's letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u196	This motion is an explication. I think it is clear in the context of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u197	You promised, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u198	I've said Judgement Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u199	I think the general point has been made that we should be careful who is in which role true. I understand that nothing else is added here to what the Minister has said, except that he is pleased that it is underlined. Probably we'll propose it, but I really don't think it's appropriate to organize it all that way here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u200	It's the second time tonight that I've really distanced myself from something that's being said. There's nothing organized here. I see this motion for the first time, and I see no reason not to give a ruling to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u201	No, it's a misunderstanding. That's not what Mrs Buitenweg meant. You can make it right, Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u202	No, never mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u203	Never mind, huh? It's okay. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u204	Mr. Chairman. There are two motions on which I will respond. The first concerns the strength of heavy fireworks and calls on the government to address a ban on the production of heavy professional fireworks at EU level. It is possible to raise the issue, but it is probably impossible to ban production, because I think that most of it is produced outside Europe. It will be difficult to ban production anyway, but sales or trade may be. I must discourage the motion in this wording. Under recommendation number 5 in the letter we have written how we are working hard in the Netherlands to try to get supporters to tighten up European regulations. I'm sure we'll continue with that. I wanted to bring this to your attention one more time. The motion in part No. 530, unfortunately, in its present form, I have to advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u205	If I were to delete the words "on production," there would be no problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u206	Yeah, but then it's about a complete ban on heavy professional fireworks. The problem we're discussing here is the use of that professional fireworks by non-professionals. If you're gonna ban it all, you're gonna ban the professional fireworks shows. I do not think that is what Mr Krol is trying to do. I see his motion as an incentive to continue our commitment to European legislation. Yes, we will. We will then find each other there, even if it is not in the specific text of this motion. Then there is the motion in part No. 533 by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Krol who want a levy on the sale of fireworks. In the debate, I have already said that a levy does not reduce the effect, but only makes it more attractive to buy illegal fireworks, because it will be relatively cheaper. That's why I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u207	As a result of what the Minister replied in the first term, I made the motion a little cautious and talked about an investigation. As far as I'm aware, it's been quite a long time since this has really been looked at. Is every amount you would charge equal to a huge threshold reduction for illegal fireworks? Would a small levy not do justice to the environmental damage that is caused? Doesn't that fit in with modern fiscal policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u208	But we are not talking about a measure designed to reduce injury. A small amount of tax will also not reduce very much injury. Mr Van der Staaij then touches on another discussion: do you want to tell the industry about the damage to the environment in this way? This is a debate other than whether we are putting in place an effective package of measures that will lead to injury reduction. I see this levy as a risk of displacement into the illegal fireworks. I therefore stand by my judgment in order to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u209	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-20-tweedekamer-8.u210	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Minister, the Secretary of State, the Members of Parliament, the staff, the people who have followed this debate or from the public gallery or via the Internet and the messengers, of course.
