ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, on behalf of GroenLinks, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Bromet for her question to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, whom I would also like to welcome, about the report that according to the Public Prosecutor's Office less manure and therefore less cattle is the solution to the manure surplus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands and agriculture belong together. Our world-famous landscapes of meadows with ditches are formed by farmers who take care of our food, but the livestock has become very large. Every day we slaughter 1.7 million animals. 75% of that meat crosses the border. The price paid by the Netherlands for this is high. In the last 100 years 80% of our plants and animals have disappeared from the Netherlands. Flowery meadows have made way for tight grass green plains and most animals are locked in large stables. Last week, a European judge ruled that nitrogen emissions in the Netherlands are far too high and that the Netherlands is not doing enough to reduce these emissions. 50% of nitrogen emissions come from agriculture. Nitrogen isn't just bad for nature. Their emissions must also be reduced in order to meet the objectives of the Paris climate agreement. All these animals cause huge amounts of manure, which will then be towed. As a result, there has been widespread fraud with manure. This morning we read in the NRC that the Public Prosecutor does not believe that the measures announced by Minister Schouten are going to work against manure fraud. The D.A. says there's only one solution: fewer animals. I therefore have three questions for the Minister. One: do you agree with the Public Prosecutor's Office that there is more manure production in the Netherlands than the country can handle? Two: how many alarm bells do we need before the Minister realizes that we simply have far too many cattle in the Netherlands? Three: does the Minister agree with me that it would be better to talk to the agricultural sector about the restructuring of the sector rather than maintaining, against better knowledge, that the current livestock is sustainable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mrs Bromet for the questions she has put. I also read this morning's report in the newspaper on the opinion of a state prosecutor that there should be fewer cattle. The prosecution also states that the reinforced enforcement strategy that I sent to your Chamber about a month and a half ago is not yet working. I sometimes need a little more time than a month and a half to implement things and to change everything equally, but that aside. Mr. Chairman. I can already reassure Mrs Bromet on her third question, her question when I am going to talk to the sector about the reorganisation. Mrs Bromet knows the coalition agreement. It includes a warm clean-up of pig farming, especially in areas where the intensity of livestock is high and in areas where we know there are problems surrounding manure in some places. So I'm already talking about that. In fact, your room has already received the plan from me. We will implement this in 2019. Then the D.A.'s office says, "Would you mind taking care of the cause of the manure surplus?" That's enough. I find that too easy, because I think more is needed. This is what we are doing with the enforcement strategy: better cooperation between regulators, smarter use of data in monitoring and detection, investing in ICT to monitor manure flows in real time, simplifying regulation, keeping a fraud register, intensifying Bibob tests. I can go on like this for a while. Therefore, I cannot imagine that the prosecution wanted to say that all such matters are unnecessary. In short, we need to be on two tracks. That's what's gonna happen. On the one hand, we have agreed in the government agreement on the warm clean-up of pig farming and on the other, we have a strengthened enforcement strategy in which many parties work together, including the Public Prosecutor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u5	It's a good thing the minister is talking to the sector. Only, this is about the pig sector. I have a graph showing the animal numbers that have increased in recent years. There has been a tenfold increase in goat farming. The meat calf sector has also grown enormously in recent years. In that light, talking to the pig sector seems to be just a drop in the ocean. I would like a response from the Minister. She also says that she has just started the enforcement strategy and then all mentions what is in that new enforcement strategy. I just wonder how she thinks that her own implementation organisation, which will have to monitor this later, does not believe in it at all and says that the emphasis is too much on repression and too little on prevention. The Public Prosecutor's Office even says that if you double the capacity of both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the NVWA, you don't have more than two drops on a glowing plate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u6	That last point is exactly what I agree with the person who says this. That's why we're going to focus on smarter solutions. Let me give you an example: I was just talking about real-time monitoring of manure flows. We are going to bet to see exactly what kind of transport there is so that we can follow that. At the moment when there seems to be a deviation in that, you can send a supervisor to that very targeted. That's more effective than, as I've said before, putting an inspector behind every tree. Because a lot of inspectors we're never gonna get and b you're really unfocused looking where it's not going well. So we are in the middle of a very focused effort. We are also working in a number of areas to develop this cooperation very intensively. It's already done and it's already going on. To give an impression, for example: for this year, I have released an additional EUR 1.45 million to contribute to this additional enforcement. For next year, that's 2.4 million. I think there's a lot going on and we're gonna put in exactly the same footsteps as the DA wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u7	I have often asked the Minister whether she does not think there should be fewer cattle in the Netherlands. Like every time I ask that question, there is no answer. My adage is: soft healers make stinky wounds. I would find it much fairer if the Minister were to be open and honest, so that expectations in the agricultural sector are also focused on something that is happening in the eyes of GroenLinks, namely a major reduction in livestock.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u8	Mrs Bromet has just mentioned a number of sectors in which the quantity of livestock has increased. I would like to challenge her to look at, for example, dairy farming and, therefore, the plans relating to pig farming. Then she can't say nothing's happening. In fact, point me out in the last few years where this has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u9	I was in the car this morning when I heard the message that the livestock should be shrinking. That reminded me of the idea: we have too many cars on the highway and we can't check if there is too fast driving, so let's ban half the number of cars from the Netherlands. I don't think it's a bad idea for the D.A. to make this kind of policy statement. My question to the Minister is whether she shares that view. I would like to point out, however, that if fraud is committed, it must be dealt with. I can only congratulate the Minister on the approach she has taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u10	Just now there was the Minister of Justice and Security. Of course, that's also the one that's in charge of the D.A.'s office. The D.A. can give his opinion. I just wanted to mention how I look at this and that the story is actually a bit more nuanced than it is outlined there. I also welcome what Mrs Lodder says about the enforcement strategy. That is, by the way, an opinion that is not just ours. We sent a letter to the House of Representatives yesterday stating that the European Commission has indicated that it has adopted the enforcement strategy and that this is a reason for the Netherlands to discuss a further derogation. So it is not the case that we think that this is the case alone; the European Commission has agreed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u11	Your second question, Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u12	Especially in the light of the letter sent to the Chamber by the Minister yesterday, in which she notes what she has just said, it does not, in my view, give any credit for policy-making in this way. Once again, we must tackle fraud, but when it comes to policy, we are looking in particular at the Minister of Agriculture, in this case. I very much hope that the Minister will agree with me on this. Actually, that's what I hear her say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u14	We all know that there is an extremely sensitive dossier here and that we are working hard to tackle abuses that have been identified in it. The Minister is working on an enforcement strategy; thank you for that. And then the Public Prosecutor comes up with statements that have a purely political load, which could result from a political debate. My question to the Minister is: do these statements by the Public Prosecutor help the Minister to shape her policy? If so, in what way are they supportive? And if not, in what way are they disruptive?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u15	I didn't need the State's Attorney's Office to realize that I had to step up enforcement and shape it more effectively. In fact, I indicated that last year. This also resulted in a plan which I sent to your Chamber and which was approved by the European Commission. We are working very hard to implement that, because that is what I am talking about. We can have all kinds of discussions about who is right and who is right on the other hand. On the one hand, we need to shape enforcement properly. They're working hard on that. I have just indicated what measures we are going to take and what kind of money we are going to make available. At the same time, there is a suggestion that we are not doing anything about the size of the livestock. I think I have just indicated exactly what the ambition in the coalition agreement is and what plans I have sent to the Chamber for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u16	I find the statements of the D.A.'s office bizarre. As a representative of the people, I want to stand up for the good farmers. It can't be that good farmers are going to suffer from fraud. That is why I have a specific question for the Minister, through you, President: who makes the policy, the Public Prosecutor's Office or the Minister of Agriculture?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u17	The policy is made by me in consultation with you, I say through the President, because you, the Chamber, are always the ones who approve or reject the policy. So the ultimate power lies with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u18	Isn't it too easy, as is happening here, to point the finger at the Public Prosecutor's Office, that the water is on the lips and that in fact gives the signal that it is in the process of rowing against the current? The Public Prosecutor says: if you really want to tackle the problem of fraud, then there should be no more supervision and enforcement, but then you have to tackle the problem at the source. My question to the Minister is: is she really prepared to take that criticism of the Public Prosecutor's Office to heart and really reduce the livestock in a social way because we do not need to hit the farmers much?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u19	I think I have already indicated to the previous speakers that that is exactly what we are doing. Mr Moorlag also knows about the warm clean-up. That is exactly what he says: the clean-up of the pig sector in a warm way. We're shaping it. So the D.A. doesn't have to point out to me that something like this should happen. It's already happening. At the same time, I am also focusing on the enforcement strategy, because I also agree with other Members here that the good should not suffer from the evils and that we should tackle the evils.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u20	It is true what the Minister says about the reorganisation, but the remarkable thing is that the phosphate ceiling for pig farming does not go down at the urgent request of the sector. This means that the space to produce phosphate, i.e. manure, remains as large as for the expenditure of 200 million. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u21	It's just a question of whether it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u22	Your second question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u23	I'm very curious about the sequel. I tabled a motion for a resolution on this matter, and the Minister quietly rejected it. I have another question. It's in the paper now. Can the Minister confirm that the D.A. has previously said to her that maintaining, and thus tackling, the manure fraud is impossible with this amount of manure in the Dutch market, and that the D.A. is not the only one who has told the Minister, since the PBL has also warned about it and there was also a report in its own ministry stating that if the amount of manure produced in the Netherlands is so high, the incentive to fraud is structurally present? So can she confirm that the warning that was now in the newspaper was actually widely known by the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u24	And that's why we're bettin' on both the tracks the D.A.'s pointing to. Call me a cabinet that has done a warm clean-up of a livestock sector. That hasn't happened in a long time. I would therefore like to say to Mrs Ouwehand that what we are doing is a contribution to this. However, at the same time, I would also like to focus on enforcement. Mrs. Lodders made an analogy with cars, but it's kind of like saying: if you have fewer shops, you also have less shoplifting and that's why we're going to limit the number of shops. Yes, if you were to make that argument very structuralally, that might be true, too, but that does not exactly put the finger on the problem. That is why we are also going to keep it focused on the people who are cheating. Because I'm not denying that there are. I expressed my displeasure about this last year but also this year several times. We have to deal with these people. That has to be very targeted. That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u25	We're talking about the warm clean-up this cabinet is going to do. How many pigs are we talking about? How many pig rights are being withdrawn from the market?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u26	I can't mention the exact number of rights. This also depends on the price of pig rights at a certain point in time. But the Chamber is aware of the package that I have put forward on how we intend to shape this hot clean-up and what resources are available for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u27	Mrs. Bromet. No, Mr. De Groot, you can't ask a second question. Mr. Sienot has already been here. Two questions per group may be put. That's gonna be an internal discussion! But it's gonna be okay. Mrs Bromet, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u28	The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance still had one question to ask. The minister makes the comparison about shoplifting and closing shops. But the problem with manure is that there is not enough room to dispose of that manure and that therefore the land available in the Netherlands to dispose of that manure determines how many animals we can have. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u29	In my view, Mrs Bromet had a whole discussion with me two weeks ago about, among other things, the amount of fertilizer we sell. I indicated at that time that there would be more room, as far as I am concerned, for animal manure to be used as a substitute for fertilizer. So it's not just a matter of how much space there is to turn off. I would also like to point out that manure is also a very valuable asset, that we can process high quality manure, and that high quality processed manure has a real function in agriculture, including in other areas. I would like to see how, as far as I am concerned, we can use fertilizer when we want more room for animal manure on that latter. I have already discussed this extensively with Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-13-tweedekamer-5.u30	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. and then we shall vote.
