ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is a continuation of the written consultation on the Competitiveness Council of 29 and 30 November 2018. To this end, we have invited the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy from the cabinet; welcome to our midst. On the side of the Chamber, two speakers have spoken, both of whom I give two minutes' speaking time. The first speaker is Mr Sjoerdsma of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. A very good morning. We are indeed going to talk briefly about the VSO Competitiveness Council. As far as I am concerned, it was a very good written consultation with many satisfactory answers. On one point, I would like to tighten up government policy a little bit. This concerns in particular the European commitment to innovation and research. This is unlikely to be important for the Dutch economy, for Dutch SMEs and for achieving the climate objectives. Also unlikely is the amount of money that then flows back to the Dutch economy and society. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission proposes to equip the European Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, Horizon Europe, with a budget of EUR 94 billion;]] [[noting that the European Parliament is insisting on providing this programme with EUR 120 billion;]] [[Whereas a robust programme contributes to strengthening the competitiveness of our companies and knowledge institutions, to supporting innovative SMEs and to achieving European climate action;]] [[Whereas a shift from the budget for agricultural funds to research and innovation contributes to more sustainable economic growth and is essential to keep up with developments outside Europe;]] [[calls on the Government to promote a budget of 120 billion for this programme during the negotiations on Horizon Europe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-30-447]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Then we will go to the next speaker, Mr Alkaya of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The future of the internal market is also on the agenda of the Competitiveness Council. An important issue here is which services must be tendered and which must also be tendered at European level. The cabinet says in the answers in the written consultation that it also recognises that municipalities can actually experience bottlenecks here in practice, for example in the case of administrative burdens, but also because there may be a need to make concessions in the area of quality. This is highly undesirable. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities are currently experiencing bottlenecks in the new procurement regime for social and other specific services and that the cross-border nature of care is absent;]] [[considers that in purchasing care by public authorities quality of care goes beyond competition considerations;]] [[calls on the Government to call at the Competitiveness Council for a review of the purchasing regime for social and other specific services where a choice of procurement does not need to lead to a European notice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mr Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-30-448]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u6	A question for explanation to the SP. What do you mean by other specific services?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u7	There may be a variety of services that have to be tendered for in this case. It concerns youth care, domestic assistance and the kind of services covered by the Directive under the internal market rules. We would like to see a choice of municipalities to provide this type of service not necessarily European, because in practice it is of course unthinkable that, for example, youth care in a given municipality in the Netherlands will be done by an Italian company or by an Irish company. So the cost of that very often does not outweigh the benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. Then we'll wait until the Secretary of State has the motions. I'll suspend for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u9	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The first motion, that of Mr Sjoerdsma, I must advise against. As far as the cabinet is concerned, the discussions on Horizon Europe's budget should not prejudge the integrated decision-making on the Multiannual Financial Framework, i.e. the budget of the European Union for the coming years. We are committed to an ambitious, modernised and financially sustainable Multiannual Financial Framework, in accordance with the government agreement. Innovation is one of the points that we need to be firmly anchored in this new MFF. All programmes should contribute to the desired modernisation as well as the financial sustainability of the MFF. As regards the level of budgets, the European Commission proposes a higher MFF. On the contrary, the Netherlands is calling for a significant downward adjustment. So although I see the importance of innovation and research, especially in view of its economic impact, it is not now appropriate to advocate a higher budget for one part of the Multiannual Financial Framework, if only because there are other interests, such as the common agricultural policy, the Structural Funds, including the European Social Fund, and the investments needed to improve border surveillance to combat irregular migration. Mr President, then there is the second motion, tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mr Hijink. It calls for a review of the purchasing regime for social and other specific services at the Competitiveness Council. First of all... It may be a bit weird to say, but Brussels doesn't work that way. You cannot suddenly come up with a point that is not on the agenda at European Councils. That is a little more careful, I would almost say. Secondly, what is stated in this motion is the policy area of the VWS Minister. He is also working on this, and that is why I would like to refer to it and advise against this motion for a moment, even if it is included in the government agreement that it is the desire to adapt EU legislation to parts where European legislation on procurement creates bottlenecks. But at the moment I can't tell you how far VWS colleague is with that. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you. A question from Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u12	But the future of the internal market is on the agenda. One part of this is of course: to what extent should companies from EU Member States be able to participate in procurement in other Member States by municipalities and other authorities in other Member States? It is not surprising, then, that I am asking this Secretary of State, who sits there and talks about the future of the internal market, to raise a position which, in my view, is also a position of the cabinet. That makes perfect sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr Alkaya thinks that is very logical, but I think that is a little less logical, because the procurement directive as such is not on the agenda. In addition, this motion deals with procurement in the social domain. That's the responsibility of the VWS minister. He's working on that, too. I can't say anything about that right now. So if Mr Alkaya wants to get something done, perhaps it would be better to communicate a little earlier on this, because then we can still get in touch with colleagues and see if I, as Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, can give an opinion on a motion that really belongs in another gremium.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr. Alkaya, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u15	Finally, Mr President. Thank you for the Secretary of State's suggestions. She has been in the Chamber for a long time, but she also knows, of course, that the answers to the written questions from the written consultation with her were received last night. You should normally have good discussions on this in advance, but she will be in the Competitiveness Council later and we will be voting on it this afternoon. If the answers didn't come in until last night, it's a little easy to say: just give me a little more time to talk to the minister. In addition, she speaks on behalf of the cabinet. It will represent the Netherlands in Europe at a meeting to discuss the future of the internal market. So I really do not think that this is the strongest response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u16	That may be true, but I know how it works here. I also know that these tender discussions were held in the VWS committee when I was sitting here as a Member of Parliament. If Mr Alkaya's line is extended, you can also ask me about the Defence Industry Strategy, because Dutch companies are also involved. All I'm saying is, let's do it a little in an orderly way. This procurement directive as such is not on the agenda. That is why I say here, no matter how much I am for you. You know me as well as I do. Wherever I can do something, I would also like to do so, that you should address this at the right time. Then I can also see through the Minister of the United States of America if I can say anything about this. Right now, you're ambushing me with this. It is the responsibility of the US Secretary of State. He is also busy with this, as the Chamber should know in broad terms, because the entire Chamber receives the letters from the Ministry of the Interior of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you. Mr. Sjoerdsma has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u18	Yeah, about the Defense Industry Strategy. No, I'll be back on the motion for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u19	On your own motion, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u20	Yes, on my own motion indeed. Own motions first. I'm a little sad about the Secretary of State's judgment on my motion. I just want to make sure I understand her. Innovation and research are extremely important for the Netherlands. The money spent at European level on innovation and research comes back disproportionately to the Dutch economy, Dutch science and Dutch society. Does this Secretary of State now say that we agree with this level, with the amount of money that Horizon Europe is going to get? Or does she say: no, as far as the cabinet is concerned, more money can go to innovation; that is what we think is important?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u21	I am aware of the amount of money that has returned to the Dutch economy through the Horizon 2020 programme over the last six years. We're doing extremely well. I am also very aware that innovation is really going to determine the earning capacity of the Dutch economy of the future. That's how I communicate about it all the time. What I have just said is that the cabinet wants to come up with an overall assessment of the proposals and that ultimately it will see whether the proposal on the table is in line with the way the Netherlands looks at the European budget. Mr Sjoerdsma brings out a part of this. That is quite right as far as I am concerned, but there are other budgets in the European budget, such as for the common agricultural policy and for investing in border control and regulating migration. Mr Sjoerdsma is a little ahead of schedule. That's why I didn't recommend this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u22	It is true, of course, that I sometimes want things to be done more quickly than possible, but my question was the next one, which is important, especially when we also talk about the use of this cabinet in relation to the MFF. The Secretary of State says we need to look at everything in his integrity. At your service, but we also need to know what the cabinet's commitment is. If you look at innovation now, is the cabinet satisfied with what the Commission is laying down? Or do we say as the Netherlands: hm, there can be a bit more tooth?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u23	I believe that on 8 November there was an hour of debate in this Chamber with Minister Blok and Minister Hoekstra. It discussed in detail the cabinet's approach to the Multiannual Financial Framework. So Mr Sjoerdsma is asking a bit about the familiar road. Apart from that, I have just explained in three instances that we are looking fully at the Multiannual Financial Framework, with the ultimate aim of preventing the UK's departure from being fully deposited with the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u24	This brings us to the end of the plenary continuation of the written consultation of the Competitiveness Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-28-tweedekamer-3.u25	The votes on the motions tabled will take place today at the end of the afternoon sitting.
