ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-2.u1	We begin with Mr Koopmans' question on behalf of the VVD about voyeurs, for whom no woman is safe. I call Mr Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's really serious. We've all been able to read about it in the news: digital voyeurs. Hidden cameras were hung in a sauna. Not only the Dutch handball team was filmed there and put on a voyeur's website, but also hundreds, perhaps thousands of other people. This problem is much wider. There's one of those voyeur forums, a website that people put those videos on. One such forum alone has 170,000 members. Can you tell me how many images there are and how this affects people's lives? Online shaming, sextortion and this kind of voyeurism are the order of the day. These images are very often forever and can be shared worldwide. Hidden cameras aren't just from the AIVD or the police anymore, they're from everyone. Where are you as a woman, as a man or as a child still safe? Can you still live free and safe if everything you do by anyone without your knowledge and without your consent can be recorded and put on the Internet? Can you just go to the bathroom or just lie in your garden, with or without a bikini, or just go crazy for once? So now the observation possibilities are unlimited. There is no forgetfulness and often there is no forgiveness. We already see it with the so-called exposing, in which many immigrant girls when they behave so-called western are disgraced in app groups and on websites. Sneaky sex movies ruin people's lives. People kill themselves. There's a huge problem. Without privacy between people, there is no freedom. We talk about privacy a lot here. We are talking about how the State looks at the citizen, but we also need to look at how the citizen looks at the citizen, how people film and watch each other. That is why I ask for the attention of the Minister not to the problem of big brother, but to the problem of all the millions of little brothers spying on each other. My first question is about the voyeur websites that exist and on which people subscribe. How can we deal with people who make this kind of image first and then the people who put this kind of image on such a website and therefore distribute it online? I'm not just talking about voyeur websites, I'm talking about sites like Dumpert and others. Finally, there are also those who subscribe to this type of site and who register for this kind of illegal services, which affect people's freedom and private life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. Let me start by saying to Mr Koopmans that I am appalled by what happened in that sauna this week, for example. I find this kind of filthy practice by a bunch of peeping Toms who are going there, really disgusting. Mr. Chairman. The question is what we can do about it. First of all, if we are talking about secretly recording these kinds of things, we are talking about a criminal offence. I therefore welcome the fact that the police have started an investigation on Friday, Saturday, following the police report. Meanwhile, in the case of which we have been able to read a lot in the newspapers, the police have taken possession of the hidden cameras there. Second. Apart from criminal offences, there is, of course, a serious violation of privacy. Fortunately, we have an important privacy watchdog in the Netherlands: the Dutch Data Protection Authority. In response to this incident, it announced that it would conduct a wider investigation. Last year, for example, the authority indicated how to handle camera usage. Finally. You ask what we can do about websites that distribute this type of material. The distribution of secretly obtained material is also punishable. I will also certainly engage with a number of platforms that are located in the Netherlands and with a number of providers, which of course make this possible, to see what we can do about it. Apart from what we are already doing with the Personal Data Authority and the police, there is still legislation to come in the course of spring. My colleague, Mr Grapperhaus, is in the process of criminalising a number of sexual crimes, such as the secret distribution of sexually tinted material. I myself am trying to see if we can take a broader approach to the issue of horizontal privacy, which Mr Koopmans has already addressed, and whether this calls for innovation in the light of this type of practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-2.u5	I'm happy with what the Minister says. Indeed, I have an initiative paper in preparation which will be submitted to the Chamber in the next two weeks. But I'll come back to the platforms that deliberately distribute this kind of footage. There was a case, not so long ago, of Mrs. Nikki Lee Janssen. Someone hacked into her Dropbox and put her video on Dumpert. Then there are 1 million people watching these private images. Meanwhile, Dumpert has cashed in the advertising fees. Now the judge has said that the advertising money must be returned, but there is no penalty or penalty. Shouldn't we tighten the rules, which means that, if you do this, you not only have to pay back the advertising costs, so your profiteers, but you just really get punished for these kinds of serious violations of someone's private life?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-2.u6	On that issue, you have to start by establishing that there is a criminal offence if someone's computer is broken into. So the material that's being taken out of there comes from a criminal offence. As soon as a platform knows about this and is guilty of spreading that material, I find that extremely regrettable. I would like to say to Mr Koopmans that I am considering whether or not this is already a criminal offence, because I am not ruling that out at all. Nor should we make it too profitable that there are platforms of people who exchange pictures and film images of this kind and make money from them, about the backs of ignorant people who, often without their knowledge, have fallen victim to these kinds of recordings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-2.u7	Thank you. And thank you, Mr. Koopmans. On behalf of the PvdA, I give Mrs Kuik the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-2.u8	These are indeed shameful practices, but I do not understand something. There's a woman who filed a complaint against this deliberate sauna, and the police said to her: ma'am, we don't think this is worth pressing charges and we can't do anything with your report. I honestly don't understand that. I've drawn attention to this before. When are we going to take victims seriously, just when they've become victims of such a fragile thing, where your entire physical integrity is at stake, where you're open to the whole world and what you haven't chosen? What is the Minister's answer to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-2.u9	I know what happened. I believe that this lady has also drawn attention to how she has been received by the police, now that the ball is rolling. I think we should be honest about how this didn't go well back then. The police also realise that there is still a lot to be done to ensure that these things are taken seriously, especially when it comes to sexual harassment. My colleague Grapperhaus and I are on top of that when it comes to the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-2.u10	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Dijksma on behalf of the PvdA.
