ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the fundamental right to free demonstrations. I give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK. Speaking time is three minutes per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u2	Mr. Chairman. "The Netherlands is not a cafeteria model, where you can choose to use one right and resist the other." This is what Prime Minister Rutte said during the campaign for the Lower House elections. And if anyone's right, Mr. Chairman, I say "he's right," because that's how we get to DENK. You can't shop selectively from our rule of law. But what does practice learn, for the umpteenth time in the VVD? Campaign words aren't worth anything after the campaign. Cafetariabaas Rutte and his companions selectively explain fundamental rights and link them to origins and opinions. To give you an example: Secretary of State Knops. At WNL, he said that anti-Black Piet protesters get too much space in our country. He understood the highway blockade of right-wing crazies to stop protesters. And then you wonder, doesn't he deserve a lesson in the rule of law? I'll ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then the cafetariabaas himself. Rutte could not quickly indicate that he found it uncomfortable when Turkish Dutchmen with a Turkish flag showed their emotions after a terrible coup. Why is it up to the Prime Minister to call the freedom of demonstration of a group of Dutch people "uncomfortable," I ask the Minister. Why doesn't Rutte find it uncomfortable when hundreds of people are demonstrating with flags from the PKK, an internationally recognised terrorist organisation, or with flags from Israel? Mr. Chairman. Random and selectivity. In practice, we see that this is also happening when considering individual mayors. Under the Public Events Act, mayors may restrict the right to demonstration in order to protect health, in the interests of traffic and to combat or prevent disorder. In practice, we see that different mayors explain this differently. To give an example: the mayors of Gouda and Utrecht forbid a hate demonstration of right-wing crazies for a mosque, while the mayors of Arnhem and Rotterdam refuse to prohibit the exact same hate demonstration. I wonder why Mayor Aboutaleb and Mayor Marcouch make a different assessment than the mayors of Utrecht and Gouda. Do they perhaps feel pressured by the extreme right or do they want to be flattering in that direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u3	Mr Kuzu, both Mr Aboutaleb and Mr Marcouch are not participating in the debate, so they cannot defend themselves either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u4	Yes, but the Minister can, Mr. Chairman. That is why it is a question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u5	She's not a spokesperson for the mayors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u6	It's a question to the Minister, Mr. Chairman. To give another example: a three-day conference of the Eritrean community and anti-Black Piet protests are forbidden, but far right may march freely through the streets of The Hague. What does this mean? It looks like the far right has the authorities in a stranglehold. Mr. Chairman. Random does not belong in a democratic rule of law. In order to avoid arbitrariness, we need a more unambiguous balancing framework. The National Ombudsman has carried out an investigation into the right to demonstration, which contains very good recommendations. The Ombudsman has even tried to draw up a hand-out. We will call on the government in the second time by motion to take over the Ombudsman's recommendations and hand-outs. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u7	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's May 29th. We're having a tropical hot day. I drank iced tea this afternoon. But today we are talking about the lovely evening of strangling cold and warm chocolate. That is remarkable, but fortunately we are also talking about other things, about the right to demonstrate and freedom of expression. Two fundamental rights that are often confused. If I write a piece in the newspaper or on a website or stand outside with a sign, that is freedom of speech, also for this on the Square. It's only a demonstration when it happens to several people in an organized context. I myself have experienced, more than once, that during a campaign I was handing out leaflets or holding signs up and that I had to leave the police because it was a demonstration. Of course I didn't, but there are misunderstandings about it. Can the Minister please tell Mayors that freedom of speech is something other than a demonstration? You have to report a demonstration, of course, but if you don't report it, that doesn't mean it's just banned. You have to tell me where you're about to walk. But if you're going to walk somewhere else, that doesn't mean the demonstration can be banned. Then the Minister must always look at the protection of health, the importance of traffic and the fight against or prevention of disorder. Is the Minister prepared to make sure that the following is well in mind with mayors, also here in The Hague, where things go wrong regularly, also around the House of Representatives? If you express your opinion on your own, that is not a demonstration but always freedom of speech. We're talking about Dokkum today, too. I have had a great deal of sympathy for the fact that the mayor has acted to prevent and combat disorder. It is from both camps for or against Sinterklaas and Black Piet anyway crazyjorum to want to spoil such a children's party. I also saw the reconstruction in NRC. The minister probably saw it, too. If you see what comes with intelligence, police work and detectives... It's a fucking kids' party; get real! What struck me very much is that two different groups had to be watched: protesters on buses and people who, apart from that, wanted to organise a counter demonstration, among others all kinds of football hooligans, who did not even come from Dokkum, but for example from Rotterdam and other cities. It was very clear where the dangers were and where to take action, but I did see that there was a huge shortage of police capacity and that it was chosen to use many people to prevent roads from being blocked, but in the meantime it was not looked at exactly who entered Dokkum. My second question to the Minister is: how is it possible that, if so much intelligence and so much research has been done, there was so little police capacity to protect these children and their parents properly? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u9	Thank you. Mr Martin Bosma has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u10	Mr Van Raak is absolutely right: Black Piet and Santa Claus is a children's party. That's what the government has to keep away from. But we can see that the government has taken a very big step in recent years. Minister Asscher had an anti-Black Piet meeting and all kinds of mayors tried to destroy Black Piet. To my great regret, the SP joins in this, both in Amsterdam, where it rules and sits in the college, as well as in Rotterdam, where it has submitted an anti-Black Piet Motion. Wouldn't it be nice if a party like the SP, which is so rooted in the Netherlands, finally separates itself from the anti-Black Piechaat...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u11	Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u12	...and just says, "Black Pete stays black"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u13	I find this kind of discussion on 29 May to be a bit embarrassing. Anyway, I'm not here from the House of Representatives to decide what a children's party should look like. Traditions develop in different places. That is why I think it is important that organisers, municipalities, organise this in the best possible way. I'm not for Black Pete. I'm not against Black Pete. I'm for a kids' party. I am particularly against people who try to disrupt that and try to gain political gain from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u14	Yes, and those people are in the SP, for example, in Amsterdam, the Black Piet Committee is being destroyed by the mayor with the support of two SP aldermen. In Rotterdam there is an anti-Black Piet Motion of the SP that says: no money for entry if there are Black Piets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u15	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u16	Then it is the SP that is destroying our beautiful tradition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u17	What Mr Bosma is doing is politicising this children's party. What I want is for the children's party in every congregation to be organised in a good way. How they do that, I like to leave it to the parents and the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u18	Good. This is a repeat. Finally, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u19	No, the SP doesn't leave it to those parents at all. The SP just puts the knife on the throat and says, "Sorry, if there's a Black Piet, there's no money going to the entrance." So it's the SP that politicizes our precious Black Piet and tries to destroy it. Why does the SP do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u20	I'm not gonna ruin a children's party here to get political gain out of that. I find it embarrassing at all and certainly on May 29th.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u22	It's up to municipalities to organize a children's party. I sincerely hope that politicians don't touch that with their thumbs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u23	Thank you. Then I will go to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In a democratic rule of law, everyone must have the opportunity to participate in the social debate. In the Netherlands we have done quite well on paper. People can express their opinions in many ways. One of these is through the constitutional right to demonstrate. By demonstrating, people can express themselves and thus participate in the social debate. By guaranteeing this fundamental right, the government also regulates the tensions that exist in society. But, Mr President, in practice, we are increasingly seeing this constitutional law being restricted by the use of public order, which is often wrong in practice. Sometimes, therefore, police capacity problems play an important role in an area. GroenLinks thinks this is a worrying development. After all, it is the primary task of the government to protect the democratic public sphere and thereby guarantee the right to demonstrate. Whether it is a demonstration with a message that we can support or that there is an objectionable view in our view, as far as GroenLinks is concerned, everyone is free to demonstrate. The government must guarantee the constitutional right to demonstrate. The National Ombudsman has recently published a report in which he indicates that too often the government tends towards risk-avoidance when it comes to the right of demonstration. Demonstrations are banned too quickly and the police sometimes pick up protesters too quickly. GroenLinks shares the Ombudsman's concerns. We would therefore like to see the Minister working on the Ombudsman's report quickly. How's the Minister looking at this? I would like a response from the Minister to the Ombudsman's findings. Last year the Public Events Act was reviewed. In response, the previous cabinet said that it did not accept some of the suggestions for improving the law. How does this minister feel about this? Does she consider the Public Events Act to be working properly? Finally, in guaranteeing constitutional rights, it is very important that the mayor and the police cooperate closely and are both fully aware of the laws and regulations in this area. How does the Minister see this? GroenLinks would like the Minister to discuss with the municipalities and the police more quickly in order to emphasise the importance of the proper functioning of the constitutional right of demonstration. GroenLinks would also like the previously promised manual of demonstration law to be completed as soon as possible, so that mayors and the police know how to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u25	Are you ready, Mrs Özütok?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u26	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u27	I shall now give the floor to Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u28	Mr. Chairman. Great text by Mrs Özütok. There was no comma in it that I disagreed with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u30	I can throw away half my text, then I'll just refer to you. That's very good, thank you very much for that. But that's the theory, and there's something like practice. GroenLinks recently demonstrated against my party, the Party for Freedom and against Forum for Democracy in Amsterdam just before the municipal elections, and GroenLinks did so together with the AFA. The AFA is a violent organisation, for example mentioned in the Threat Picture of Terrorism 2015. The AFA is violent, disrupts meetings, it's not really a democratic club, it's not a nonviolent club. Why the hell is GroenLinks demonstrating with the AFA?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u31	I will not go into all the incidents when it comes to demonstrations. I really want to make it possible to demonstrate an important fundamental right, a civil right. Everyone's entitled to that. People who want to participate can do the same. But a demonstration must be announced, all information must be gathered with mayor and police, so that public order can be maintained safely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u32	Yes, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u33	Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u34	Blablablablabla.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u35	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u36	Just answer my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u37	That was really content, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u38	No, it wasn't content, because that didn't answer my question. It wasn't the beginning of an answer to my question. GroenLinks demonstrates together with a violent organisation. This is evident from the Threat Picture of Terrorism, at demonstrations by AFA 166 arrests were made once, AFA says to disrupt meetings, and AFA simply says that the rule of law is not our state. Why does GroenLinks legitimise the AFA by demonstrating it hand in hand? In the city where Mrs Özütok lives, has been director, candidate-alderman was...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u39	You asked your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u40	Why, why, why with the AFA?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u41	The right of demonstration also applies to a GroenLinks department. What matters is how the mayor handles that right of demonstration. I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. The same goes for your party, of course! I can do a full evening program here, but I don't intend to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u42	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u43	I find it so telling, President, that GroenLinks is going to demonstrate hand in hand with this kind of terrorists. If you ask if that's weird for a democratic party, you don't get the beginning of an answer. Then you get generalities, fear, running away. GroenLinks demonstrates hand in hand with the AFA...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u44	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u45	...a violent organization. Why don't you just hand me that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u46	Those are your words. I said what I said. I am concerned about the constitutional right of citizens and that this can be well expressed. That goes for everyone, for my party and for yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u47	Thank you. Then I'll go to Mrs. Den Boer on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u48	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin with a well-known quote: "I loathe what you say, but I will defend your right to say it with my life." A often quoted quote by Voltaire when it comes to freedom of speech. A great asset that results in the right to demonstrate. However unpopular an opinion is, one has the right to express it peacefully and openly, for example during a demonstration. Unfortunately, for some time now, we have been seeing a worrying trend that the Ombudsman has also recently appointed. The government tends to avoid risk when it comes to demonstrations. D66 finds it worrying. Our freedom of demonstration is an essential part of our democracy. The Constitution provides for freedom of demonstration. It also states that in the interests of traffic and in order to combat or prevent disorder, the law may restrict this freedom. The mayor has an important role to play in this, namely the commitment to guarantee the freedom of peaceful demonstration, even if disruptive counter-actions are to be expected. Only in an extreme case, when maintaining public order requires absolutely disproportionate police deployment, can a demonstration ban be justified in advance. Unfortunately, research shows that municipalities sometimes too quickly prohibit the safe taking and demonstrations. Sometimes with emergency measures which are not actually intended for this purpose and which may subsequently be declared invalid. Therefore, it is also problematic that demonstrations are banned, namely because of the counter-reaction that this can trigger. This rewards the group that deprives other people of the right to demonstrate. Mr President, it is clear that I am concerned. Does the Minister share these concerns? And can she fully commit herself to turning this tide around? The Ombudsman notes that social media is playing an increasingly important role in bringing people on their feet. Think of Project X, for example. How does the Minister view these developments? Is the Minister prepared to investigate them further and to consider how the mayor and the police can respond to this development? Of course, the powers to allow a demonstration lie with the mayor and not with the minister. Research shows that a manual of demonstration rights for municipalities and police would be welcome. What's the status of this? Following the 2015 WOM review and the Ombudsman's report, recommendations were also made to the Minister. Are these recommendations addressed in the letter before the summer recess? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u49	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Martin Bosma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, the sparrows fall off the roof and we talk about Saint Nicholas. Don't tell me we're not up-to-date here in the Lower House. The core is natural: Black Piet is black and remains black. And all kinds of left-wing drammers like Jeroen Pauw, Lodewijk Asscher and Paul Römer of the NTR will never win. The Netherlands loves Black Piet, and rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u51	Also for you, Mr. Bosma, applies...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u52	Oh, yeah! I'm just gonna forget about it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u53	People are mentioned who simply do not participate in the debate. That's always a little unfair. Don't you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u54	Well, I take back my words, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u55	Okay, then proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u56	Mr. Chairman. The fight against Black Piet is part of a great cultural war against our people: against its history and against its culture. That's why street names need to change, statues need to be removed, death remembrance must be broken, we can't play cowboy anymore, state broadcasting talks about "white people" when it comes to white people, we can't speak Dutch at universities anymore and Christian holidays are under pressure. Our Black Piet must be killed, but the Ramadan can of course be celebrated, subsidised and supported by the government. Their parties do; our parties don't. Kick Out Black Piet performs actions at the expense of our children. They have no mercy. The end justifies the means. Violence? Their signature. That's why this club is mentioned in the Threat Picture of Terrorism of the AIVD, our secret service. That's why it's a dangerous club. A demonstration was forbidden by the municipality, because it was feared of disorder. Dokkum knew what to expect. The unelected PvdA mayor made it very furious: she goes in consultation with Kick Out Zwarte Piet. The WOB procedure shows that there has been a lot of communication between the terrorists and the municipality. The mayor even travels to Amsterdam to consult with them. But first she goes into the demands of Kick Out Zwarte Piet: guest lessons and teaching packages by Kick Out Zwarte Piet are offered to schools in the municipality of Dongeradeel, and there will be an anti-Black Piet Exhibition to Dokkum. Indoctrination of our children. PvdA mayor Waanders admits it all. In the local newspaper, the mayor even praises Kick Out Zwarte Piet. The lines within the left church are short: they fight for the same, only the methods are something else. Kick Out Zwarte Piet is apparently the fight team of the left-wing drivers. Together they fight this symbol of our culture. The government that makes a deal with violent terror thugs: you've got to get to it. How does the Minister feel about that? In this cultural-marxist wasteland a flower suddenly bloomed. A number of the sons and daughters of Great Pier, the children of Frisian freedom, of the proud heidelân, no longer let themselves be ringed and shut down their city for the activists. A cheerful, creative, fun action. I've never been so proud of my Frisian last name. What heroes! These blockage Frisians are the true nobility of the Netherlands. They're the real elite, and not all those left-liberal pseudo-intellectuals from the canal belt. The modern Jeanne d'Arc, Jenny Douwes, and her companions: these wretched resistance fighters deserve a ribbon or a statue for courage, policy and loyalty. Is the Minister prepared to do so? The blockage Frisians and their heroic action are in flagrant contrast to what happened that same day in Rotterdam, where left-wing activists closed the Erasmus Bridge, and went to scream and scream at children who came to celebrate Saint Nicholas. Strange: this scum is not being prosecuted, just as any action is being taken against Turkish wedding toots that cripple traffic. They even get help from the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u57	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u58	But the blockage Frisians are now being addressed by the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is stiff of the D66's and GroenLinksers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u59	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the fundamental right to demonstrate, following the events at Dokkum at the last entrance of Saint Nicholas and Black Piet. Every year this entry is a big children's party and a highlight of Dutch culture. So last year this happened in Dokkum. The people there just wanted to have a nice party with their children and with children all over the country who watched it on TV. We in the VVD can very well imagine that many people in Dokkum didn't want people to disturb their children's party, especially because action groups came from far away to proclaim a position that doesn't live or hardly lives in Dokkum and that they see there as going against their own culture. Of course, you may wonder whether it is really necessary to stand next to it on that day, when little children can expect to see their fairy tale hero and protest against part of that fairy tale. Isn't that discussion going to be enough, even now in the middle of the heat? But it is allowed, because we know the very important fundamental right of demonstration. The fundamental right of demonstration is also part of our national culture. It is therefore understandable that there was a place in Dokkum for those who wanted to demonstrate against Black Piet. The right to demonstrate is therefore not bound by the content of that opinion. In the Netherlands you can demonstrate for and against anything, even if you have a position that is ridiculous or detestable in the eyes of other people. Freedom of expression applies to everyone. The government protects that right. But of course there are limits. For hate-songs and vandals we do not make room, but in the Netherlands there is a lot of room for demonstrations. We have to keep that space. Mr. Chairman. We must protect the freedom of demonstration. We have to protect our children, too. Then it's a good thing that there's a trade-off in Dokkum. The local government has the right to do so. So you have to weigh the opinion, the right, but above all the safety of the children. We are pleased that this is happening. Thank you for this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u61	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u62	Mr. Chairman. In 2015, the NOS still estimated that around 34 demonstrations are taking place in the Netherlands every week. We make enough of it ourselves, right here on the doorstep. You're gonna have a conversation here and there. Even the most screaming types are really capable of having a good conversation. You'll know the point they want to transfer. The Ombudsman concludes that, in any event, the right of demonstration is not under pressure, which does not fit in with a democratic country such as the Netherlands, but that it is not properly handled in all cases. In reply to D66's written questions, the Minister has already replied that banning or restricting demonstrations is, in principle, a local matter. If the municipality of Enschede forbids Pegida's supporters to demonstrate alongside the mosque, it does so either because it expects disturbances or because it expects the worship to be disturbed. That consideration makes Enschede himself. That demonstration can be done somewhere else. However, the Minister has indicated that he wishes to specify the law on a number of points. We await that proposal with interest. Mr. Chairman. Demonstrating is a fundamental right. The Ombudsman rightly claims that the government should in principle fully facilitate demonstrations. Local authorities ask the government to clarify why demonstrations are allowed, because people don't always understand that. A number of examples have already been mentioned here. This could help municipalities explain these problems. How does the Minister take that advice? When we read the report, we see a clear difference between on the one hand the theorists, who think very much from the theory of the fundamental right that we defend with each other, and on the other hand the people who have to manage the demonstrations. These are not only drivers, but also the agents who are sent to something and who have to make an assessment in practice. In the report we see a clear difference between those two. These are signals that do not detract from the fundamental right, but they do show for which dilemmas directors and agents are put into practice. For example, one of the round tables held for this report shows that there are more and more events organised from a strategic point of view: to disrupt. It is not uncommon to deceive the government; it is also called that. What if as mayor you have to make a decision when the foreman of the action group De Grauwe Eeuw makes the call to shoot the horse's man during the entrance of Saint Nicholas, with fine remarks "so that all children can witness this and even be massively under his brain and bone splinters"? Then what is the right to demonstrate? How does the Minister protect that fundamental right from these types? In that context, the Ombudsman is talking a little forgivingly about whether or not to report a demonstration, which we understand as CDA or a little less. Because the government must also be able to fulfil its responsibility to possibly protect people, and agents must make a split-second weighting in very current situations. What possibilities does the Minister see to help local leaders make the difference between one demonstration and the other? Is this particularly important, as the Ombudsman says, that they should share better examples with each other? Or is there any need for more in that regard as far as the Minister is concerned? I like to hear it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u64	Mr Van der Molen is a Frisian. How does he feel about the action of the blockage Frisians in Dokkum?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u65	Well, that action wasn't in Dokkum; it was with Joure. Between Dokkum and Joure is Eastermar. That's about the area where the name Bosma ever came into being. So there's some connection there. I think I agree with what Secretary of State Knops said. He is able to live up to the emotion that this whole demonstration in Dokkum has summoned. That goes for me, too. I think it's another point that you're gonna drop off a freeway. I understand why you want to do an act out of anger, but that doesn't mean you have to break the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u66	When it comes to empathizing with emotions, I can also empathize with the emotions of jihadists. I can relate to anyone. That's not the point. The question is, how do you feel about that action? But I am glad that Mr Van der Molen simply says: I reject it. Mr Van der Molen says as a real Frisian: no, I distance myself from that blocking Frisian. That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u67	Yes, it's a bit of a transparent attempt to play that out; I understand that too. But when I, as Fries, heard what demonstrations were going to be held in Dokkum, I thought the same thing as Mr Van Raak, namely: do you have to ruin a children's party to make your point? It wasn't the first time they were in Friesland either. They had also demonstrated at the St. Piter Festival. That was once, exceptional in Friesland, in the village of Grouw. I've seen that a little bit closer. Then I also understand the feelings very much, and that you want to hear from yourself. In that respect, therefore, I have every understanding. I'm just standing here as a politician, too. I swear allegiance to the laws we have here. And one of those laws is that you don't take a highway, for example. Between those two things a choice must be made, and fortunately that choice lies with the Public Prosecutor and not with me as a politician.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u68	The fact that the opinion does not lie with the politician is, of course, not entirely correct, because as a politician you can have an opinion on the situation. Secretary of State Knops indicated on the one hand that he understood the emotion, but that was not the only thing. He also said protesters get too much room in this country. I sincerely wonder what, according to the CDA, shows that protesters are given too much space.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u69	I can only speak for myself here. In my contribution to this debate, I asked the Minister precisely that the right of demonstration can also be used for very different forms. The right of demonstration is a fundamental right, because, as others have said, we have the freedom to say whether we are for or against something. At the moment that instrument is being abused and actually used, because the more we damage it, the more it comes under pressure, we are doing it ourselves. If then there are cases as announced in Dokkum, then I will distance myself from them on behalf of the CDA. I do this not only because it is a children's party, but also because demonstrations at the core are not meant to set up groups against each other, to disrupt or to function as a cover for possible attacks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u70	Then I wonder how that relates to the current Public Events Act. You are actually saying that from your position as a Member of Parliament, as a political group in the House of Representatives, you want to give some more guidelines in the Public Disruption Act. In that sense, you want more frameworks for mayors. Is that what I'm tasting in your speech here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u71	You cannot translate that immediately, but I thought: if we have this debate, we will all say that we support the fundamental right to demonstrate together. I can repeat that; I have done so a number of times. But I also wanted to draw attention to the dilemmas at local level, where I, together with the Minister, believe that the decision should be taken. You should take that seriously, too. Because on the one hand you have the fundamental right, but if that fundamental right is abused by not carrying out demonstrations to make your point but to disrupt it, it also means that people need to have the tools locally to make up for that balance. Then I'm not going to step into what one local government does and not the other local government, because those situations are different from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u72	Yes, but I think the basis remains the same; the basis of course is disruption. If a manifestation is aimed at disrupting anything, does the CDA say that that manifestation should be banned? Or is that choice again with the competent local authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u73	The local authority has the power to say at some point in the extreme: it stops here. That is also what the Ombudsman himself says. For example, this was rightly done in Dokkum, because if you see that two groups who are so opposed to each other are looking for your city, I can vividly imagine that you will then make a choice to guarantee public order and security. My question to the Minister was what is needed to make these good considerations, because the Ombudsman had a bit of a criticism of that. So the question to the Minister is whether it is enough to say: I dealt with it in place X and in place Y like this. Or do we need those specifics that the minister may have in mind? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u74	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u75	Thank you, Mr President. In a country where a small majority in this Chamber recently agreed to abolish an important democratic instrument, we must be careful not to undermine one of the other important instruments, the right to free demonstration. When a group of residents does not feel heard at work or by the government, when they feel wrongly treated or when they experience injustice from the present or the past, they may go on the streets. Demonstraten have this right under Article 9 of our Constitution. Having a debate on something so clearly stated in the Constitution should actually be superfluous. A fundamental right must be a right above all discussion and should be respected by all the authorities involved. The National Ombudsman reports in his report that the government tends to avoid risk. It is easier to stop a demonstration than to facilitate it, as envisaged by the law. Fear seems to reign. Under the pretext that a small minority organises the demonstration, governments apparently feel that the majority supports the government in banning such a demonstration. This is an undermining of what our democracy stands for. In a well-functioning democracy, we ensure that the minority can make its voice heard, even if this may pose a danger to public order and security. When demonstrations are stopped with the argument that public order may be at stake, we create a precedent, which makes it necessary to undermine authority, threaten demonstrators with merely announcing violence or something simple if blocking a highway makes sense. When an application for a demonstration is received by a government, the question should not be asked whether it is possible but how. We're not gonna get there with just the right intentions from the government. From the government's point of view, saying that we all have to act a little normal doesn't help either. The Animal Party would like to know from the Minister how we can support local authorities in these issues from The Hague. In order to promote and promote the use of this fundamental right, will the Minister look at the possibility of abolishing the notification requirement for small demonstrations? The notification period of at least four days and subsequent consultations with the police are sometimes also perceived as unnecessarily burdensome, the Ombudsman reports. Especially when it comes to an actual event, more speed is required. Would the Minister like to come up with a proposal for this? I would like to conclude with a quote from William Faulkner, one of my favorite writers, about the fear of demonstrations: "Don't be afraid to make your voice heard about justice, truth, compassion and thus lie and greed. If people around the world would do this, the world would change." Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u76	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'll see if the minister needs a brief suspension. Yeah, ten minutes. Then I'll suspend the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u77	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's now the end of May. In November I was here during Question Time. A question was then asked, because some members of the Chamber had received signals that some municipalities would prohibit demonstrations too quickly by appealing to the protection of public order. That was the reason for me to say: I do not recognize the signals as such, but I take it seriously and I am prepared to start the conversation. I believe that the right of demonstration is an extremely important fundamental right in the Netherlands, one of the foundations of the democratic rule of law. I therefore believe that we should always keep our finger on the pulse to ensure that fundamental rights are safeguarded. If there is any concern about that among Members of Parliament, I would very much like to check it out. The Public Events Act has been evaluated under the previous cabinet. My predecessor sent that evaluation to you. This evaluation showed that municipalities facilitate as many demonstrations as possible. Actually, they facilitate all the demonstrations. This is the starting point for municipalities. The evaluation showed further, and of course we can see that there are more and more demonstrations, as well as anti-demonstrations. Demonstrations lead to counter-reactions. We also saw this during the previous Sinterklaas trek and regularly during other demonstrations in the Netherlands, for example during demonstrations by Pegida. That is why it is important to be in conversation with the municipalities, to hear from them what their consideration is and why they come to a certain judgment. It is a local consideration, Mr van der Molen said, and we must respect that. I understand that very well. The application of the Public Events Act and the maintenance of public order lie with the mayor, with the local triangle. They are best able to see it and also have the information needed to form such a judgment. At the time, I promised to start these talks with the municipalities. They're going on. I have already spoken to a number of relevant, large municipalities, but also to a number of smaller municipalities where something has happened. A selection was made from the Dutch municipalities to get a good picture of the whole. Those consultations are still going on. There will also be talks with Amnesty International in the short term. In any case, even before this debate was scheduled, my intention was to forward the results of those talks to you in a letter. That letter will therefore be about the practice of the right of demonstration. My intention was also to comment on the report of the National Ombudsman, which has been cited here by several Members. This debate, which, of course, raises relevant questions and points of interest, comes just before I have had the opportunity to inform you by letter about the outcome of those talks and to share the cabinet's position on the Ombudsman's report with the Chamber. I can tell you now, because we are here and you are asking me questions, that the conversations so far do not reveal the idea that banning demonstrations is a kind of common practice or that it is too easy to grasp the argument of public order not to allow demonstrations. My view is that municipalities do not go ice over one night, that they do their weighing very carefully, that in the majority of cases demonstrations can take place without significant problems and that there is good consultation between municipalities and the police. It does put mayors before dilemmas and it's not always easy. You have action and reaction... but the fundamental right as such seems, so my preliminary judgment, is well secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u79	I was wondering if the Minister couldn't have said a little earlier that the letter was coming. Then maybe we could have spared ourselves this whole night. Now it's a little mustard for the meal, in a crazy way. But in case that letter comes, I have two more questions. Can the Minister take it with him? Firstly, there is a great difference between the right to demonstrate and freedom of expression. Especially here in The Hague I have a lot of experience with complaints about this. People make use of their right of expression on their own, which can be done in the newspaper, but also here on the Square and are treated as a demonstration with everything. They'll be sent away because they can't. It can't be. Everyone has the right to express themselves. My second point is this. For example in Dokkum there was a lot of time and effort invested in intelligence positions and they actually knew exactly what was going on and what types of people came from, and yet there was too little police capacity to carry out the plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u80	That is what you asked for in your first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u81	I might have thought so, but I wouldn't have said so. But it's headlined. I would like to answer these questions from Mr Van Raak. I fully agree with him that there is a difference between freedom of expression and a demonstration. A one-man protest here or elsewhere, with or without a sign, can be an expression of an opinion. And that is different from a demonstration, for which at least more than one person is needed and for which it is desirable that it be reported so that the municipality can give an opinion. Besides, it doesn't have to be. I believe that is what Mr Van Raak said in his first term. It may also be the case that someone or a particular group chooses not to report a demonstration. That does not automatically prohibit it. I believe that Mr Van Raak and I are in complete agreement on that point. I also thought that this was reported in the reaction of my predecessor to the review of the law. I think this is a general starting point. It is also addressed in the hand delivery. I will come to that in a moment, because a number of questions have been asked. Then there is Mr Van Raak's other question. In order to manage demonstrations, municipalities need to gather as much information as possible about possible counter-reactions or other things that can happen. But of course they don't really have all the information about what's going to happen. So not everything that can disrupt such a demonstration is known in advance. It's an assessment. Capacity is being deployed to make up for that assessment. Then it looks at sufficient police capacity on the basis of the mayor's assessment at that time. Sometimes there is already an image where the available capacity is insufficient and sometimes not. Sometimes there is a practice that shows that the assessment was not entirely correct. It's different from one situation to another. It is true, therefore, that considerable attention is being paid to it. Of course, efforts are being made to provide the necessary capacity for police deployment. Moreover, this is a question that could be answered even better by my colleague from JenV, because that is what this is about. Of course, it may also be that things are happening that cannot be foreseen in advance. Those were the questions that Mr Van Raak had asked. I shall go back to the order of speakers, namely to Mr Kuzu. After giving a few introductory examples, he wondered whether different considerations were made in different cities and whether different mayors were different, while it was about the same type of demonstration. In other words, Mr Kuzu suggested that there might be some sort of arbitrariness. That's not true. The mayor is responsible and competent to make a decision. Like I said, he feeds on the local triangle and the local information. It is precisely the law that gives the scope and the obligation to assess, per demonstration, whether restrictions are necessary. Where the mayors, of course, stand for facilitating demonstration law as much and as well as possible, they are also responsible for seeing whether a restriction is necessary. The local situation thus determines that judgment. That's what the law says. This may lead to different outcomes, but that is because the situation can be so different locally. So that is different from the fact that there would be different balancing frameworks or something like that. Indeed, there is a clear balancing framework and that is the Public Events Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u82	Yet it is true that an image is created that that is not entirely true. I'm just giving a very concrete example. We have a mosque and we have a far-right organization that calls itself Pegida. This is an extremely shabby club that thinks it is necessary to put a pig on a barbecue for a mosque in five different municipalities during the Ramadan, the holy month for the Muslims. We have seen that two municipalities, Gouda and Utrecht, make a very different assessment than Rotterdam and Arnhem. So the situation, the context, is similar. Then the question is at least a very large group of people, where the difference is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u83	I understand that Mr Kuzu is asking that question, but also such a situation, so a demonstration of the same club people, in this case Pegida, can lead to a different assessment. This also depends on what day it is and where the demonstration is announced. I believe that it has been said in the case of Utrecht: in that place at that time we do not think it is justified, but if you do it in another place, we will allow it. So I think that an understandable consideration, locally, from the local circumstances in which it has been tried to do both justice to the right of demonstration and to take into account any problems arising from the choice of the day or place. So it's actually an illustration of what I'm trying to say. Local, specific considerations can lead to something that looks remotely like a different assessment. But there's always a motivation underneath that sees the local situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u84	Okay, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u85	That was, I think, the most important question that Mr Kuzu has just asked. I have already answered Mr Van Raak's two main questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u86	The Minister is actually saying it very nicely. It was the most important question I asked. I agree, but I did ask several questions. These include unity of government policy and statements by the Secretary of State. I wonder what this minister's view is of the statements made by her colleague or colleague in the Interior Department. As far as I am concerned, he has made some strange statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u87	Well, I remember that around that time a lot of members of the cabinet got the same question and actually gave it a personal coloring. That's what Secretary of State Knops did. That is not only his right, but also very understandable. Because Mr Knops spoke from his environment, a village in Limburg. He has said that he understands that the balancing is different locally in that village in Limburg than the balancing is done, for example, in Amsterdam. In my opinion, that is the space we give each other in the Netherlands, that freedom of expression, that of how you deal with traditions. That's what I really like about the Netherlands. His other point was, I think, that he said it's a good thing that people can demonstrate and that minorities can make themselves heard in that way, but that he also wanted to give the sound of a group of Dutch people who, in his eyes, remain silent and who are less part of those kind of demonstrations. He has chosen to do so, and I think that is also his right to show the sound of that group in the Netherlands. The Secretary of State did that. I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u88	Whatever he's said is that anti-Black Piet Demonstrants get too much space. Then I wonder whether the Minister for the Interior, who has the Constitution in her portfolio, among other things, agrees. Another point was also the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister said it's okay to demonstrate 364 days a year against Black Piet, but not on that one day. Does the Minister of the Interior agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u89	There is no limitation from our calendar when you may or may not demonstrate. Nevertheless, the children's party in the Netherlands must remain that children's party. That is what Mr Van Raak has just said, and I said it at the same time. The mayor of Dokkum did a good job of doing that. The protesters themselves had agreed not to carry out a demonstration there at the time the steamboat docks, but something before or after that, I want to get rid of that. We did not have a debate in the Chamber, but in response to questions I thought the CDA was going to talk about how it would be to do a noise demonstration on 4 May at 8 p.m. We have a view on that; so do I. I don't think that's a sign of respect. This does not affect fundamental rights; nothing at all, but I think it is a question of civilisation and maturity that we can say that sort of thing to each other in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u90	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u91	I agree with that in itself, that it's about civilization and maturity, and that you shouldn't disturb order. I believe that the mayors in our country have a particular responsibility in this regard. The main point is that the Dokkum issue uses the closure of motorways to prevent demonstrators from arriving at their destination. If you then state your understanding of the ruling of the Secretary of State and of the Prime Minister; they may all have views on it, what signal do you send, when it comes to not undermining this fundamental right? That is a serious and compelling question to this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u92	None of the colleagues you mentioned suggested that the right to demonstrate should be restricted. On the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u93	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u94	Then I will continue with my answer, because I have not heard any other question. It is about freedom of demonstration or right of demonstration. That is a fundamental right and that defends the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u95	Of course, a very polarizing atmosphere has arisen around Dokkum and other municipalities. That is very regrettable and perhaps even objectionable, especially when it goes over children's backs. This means that we in the Netherlands must be prepared for things that suddenly happen, which are not prepared, such as a hostile audience. This means a counter-sound that is organized. Is the Minister also addressing this question in her talks with the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u96	Sure. I also started my introduction by saying that the evaluation found that the municipalities said that they would like to facilitate those demonstrations and give them space. We consider this important, but we note a trend in which one demonstration seems to lead more often to a counter-demonstration or action and reaction. That is, I think, a fact that the municipalities also have to deal with. They're doing the same thing. That does not, as far as I have been able to see, lead to fewer demonstrations being allowed out of fear of a counter-response, and I do not think fear would be a good advisor on this point either. In Dokkum, the mayor gave a very good shape to the demonstration on the one hand and the entry on the other, but then notes that another group, which of course has the right to express its opinion, has chosen a way that is disturbing for public order and has created danger for people on the highway. If a counter-sound had been chosen by means of a demonstration, announced and agreed, it would have handled it well, I think, but this resulted in a different situation, with all the consequences. We have to learn from that too, and of course the mayors do the same. There's definitely attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u97	I share the Minister's view that fear is not a good advisor. Of course, it is a very difficult balance to make, but well, that fundamental right to free demonstration prevails at all times. That must be very clear to all those mayors. That is why I am asking whether the Minister will return to that point in the letter she has put ahead for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u98	Yes, because this is also the subject of conversation with the municipalities. I would like to say that to Mrs Den Boer. Ms Özütok van GroenLinks asked about the Ombudsman. I told him things were coming for the summer. She also asked me if I am now of the opinion that the WOM is working well. Yeah, I think so. That's what the evaluation shows. Nor does the Ombudsman conclude in the report that the law is inadequate. But again, you'll have another reaction to that. I will come back to this in the letter, but I do not have the impression that the law as such is not working properly. On the contrary, I think it provides exactly the framework that is needed. But I'll get back to you. The hand-out was something that arose from the evaluation and the letter from my predecessor. That was in January 2017. Minister Plasterk then promised that he would come up with a practical manual for municipalities and police and that he would contact the municipality of Amsterdam and the national police. They were working on one of those manuals back then. That's what happened. The publication of the municipality of Amsterdam and the national police, a joint work, is complete. It wouldn't be very convenient to do that again, because there's just a good piece. I think this provides a good basis for cooperation, including for the other municipalities. The lap along the municipalities is now running. I also mentioned Amnesty International. I would also like to bring this issue back to the Strategic Council on Security of Mayors, so that there is regular attention given to the right of demonstration. Let me see if I'll be with Mr. Bosma by then. I think so, actually. I've already said a few things about the whole situation in and around Dokkum. I hope that I have answered his questions as well. He wanted to hand out ribbons and statues. In fact, I think that is also a local consideration, I would like to say to Mr Bosma. Mr. Chairman. Just a few more questions. What Mr Van der Molen said is somewhat in line with what your colleague, Mrs Den Boer, and I have just said in the interrupting debate on action response. Mr Van der Molen said it sharply. He was talking about the disruption. To put it bluntly, fundamental rights may need to be restricted if they are really abused in a way that is, for example, life-threatening. Then we don't even have to have a discussion about it, I guess. Unfortunately, that's what's happening. We must, of course, take action against this, preferably, if there is sufficient evidence, by means of criminal law. However, what should not happen again, I think, in the same direction as Mrs Den Boer, is that this kind of threat is being taken to prevent a demonstration from taking place. So it's a complicated dilemma. Suppose individuals take advantage by, for example, expressing threats on social media or whatever. I am not in favour of it being used to deny a certain group that wants to demonstrate that right. That's pretty much the balance that we all need to look for in this, I think. Mr. Chairman. I'll see if there's any questions left. The Party for Animals also had a number of questions, but they saw in parts of the Ombudsman's report, for example on the obligation to register, the four-day deadline. That is, by the way, a long term. It's not that long everywhere. I know it's 24 hours in Amsterdam. Many municipalities have 48 hours. So there's a local difference. Given that Mrs Van Kooten's comments stem from the report, I would suggest that she waits first for the response to the report. Then we'll see if she has any reason to come back to those questions. They see them directly on the report. And I said I'd come up with a response before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u99	Then we're going to... Oh, Mrs. Den Boer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u100	I have another question about my question about social media. Nowadays, the message and the request to demonstrate can be spread very quickly, among large numbers of people. It may mean, for example, that public order is compromised, or that at least there are questions about it. It may also mean that the police capacity is under pressure. We can assume that the police capacity can and even needs to be organized...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u101	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u102	... because the police must be available at all times. The question is how the Minister sees this. And is she going to include this in her evaluation of the WOM?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u103	The fact that this kind of information can be quickly disseminated via social media is a recent date, but not yesterday, because it has been going on for a while. So I think that most mayors and triangles are quite capable of taking that into account in their assessment of the information they collect, as Mr Van Raak just said. They can therefore adapt their measures accordingly. When it comes to police capacity, I have to refer to my colleague from JenV, who can give a more precise answer. It's part of the trade-off, though. Moreover, I did not undertake an evaluation of the law, which we just had, but indeed a response to the Ombudsman and a detailed response on the occasion of the local council round. We can include whether they see this as a further complication in their consideration. I'm willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u104	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u105	That seems to me to be a very good idea anyway, given that demonstrations change in nature, as has also been pointed out by the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u106	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u107	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her first-term response. I do get the feeling she's downplaying it. We have a report from the Ombudsman, "Demonstrate, a shattering fundamental right?', But when I listen to the Minister's answer, she actually says, there's not much going on, so don't worry and go to sleep. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is tension between the constitutional right to demonstrations and the maintenance of public order;]] [[whereas the public order argument seems to be applied differently by mayors;]] [[Whereas this opens the door to arbitrariness and is at odds with the principles of equality of law and legal certainty;]] [[calls on the Minister, on the basis of the National Ombudsman's hand-out, to come up with a balance-sheet framework which will enable the right to demonstrations to be weighed in a more unambiguous manner against the importance of disorder and the importance of health and traffic,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-79]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u108	Let me ask you something. I am not reluctant to oppose this motion, but the Minister has just said that she is coming up with an official response to the National Ombudsman's report. We will then have a debate on this. I was wondering if it wouldn't be a little premature to file the motion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u109	I get the question. Depending on the answer, we can always see if the Minister wants to move in that direction. On that basis, we can hold the motion until the Minister's letter to the Chamber is received.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u110	Thank you. Mr Van Raak does not wish to speak in second term. Then I will go to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her response and the detailed answer to the questions. I have heard her response well when it comes to local authorities paying attention to the right of demonstration, but I want to be sure that this important part is given sufficient attention. Hence a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a certain degree of uncertainty among municipalities and/or the police about the rules on constitutional demonstration law;]] [[Whereas by letter of 17 January 2017, the Government recognised the added value of a manual;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the Handbook of Demonstration Law for Municipalities and Police drawn up by the National Police and the City of Amsterdam is known to all municipalities and all police units,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-80]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u112	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for answering the questions. I see here a minister showing heart and understanding for the guarantee of the very important fundamental right of freedom to demonstrate in this country. I am very curious about the Minister's letter in which many elements will come back. I have mentioned a number of them myself, such as social media and hostile audionce or the countersounds. I think that, in particular, we should be very clear in the practical manual to the mayors on how this fundamental right should be interpreted and practiced. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u113	Thank you, Mrs Den Boer. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen has the floor on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u114	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Minister for her reply. I have a motion. I understand there's gonna be a letter of inquiry. However, I am afraid that it will not be possible to have a debate on it immediately, but that it will then have to be applied for and then it will take another six months. So I have the next motion that I can still hold. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the fundamental right to free demonstration is a valuable instrument in a functioning democracy;]] [[noting that the notification period of at least four days and subsequent consultations with the police, according to the National Ombudsman's report, is sometimes perceived to be unnecessarily burdensome;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the conditions under which the notification requirement for small demonstrations can be abolished and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29614-81]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u115	Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn first to Mr Kuzu's motion on item No. 79. I come with the letter and the response to the Ombudsman's report. So, as far as I am concerned, that would actually be a more logical time to assess this motion. Perhaps Mr Kuzu would like to continue the motion for a resolution for this reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u116	I am prepared to do so, provided that the Minister can indicate whether she wishes to move in the direction proposed or, at least in her letter, to return the letter of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u117	Then we'll get into a bit of a complicated trade-off. If the Chamber has the opinion of the cabinet on the Ombudsman's report, we should have this debate again, so to speak, because then, for my part, I have been able to argue what should or should not be done in response to the Ombudsman's report and in response to the local authorities' round. So I would not now like to say to Mr Kuzu that this leads, in any case, to the balancing framework, as he argues here. I also think that it is only when Mr Kuzu has the letter and the reaction that he can best judge whether a balancing framework or something else is necessary in his opinion. If Mr Kuzu is prepared to hold on to his motion, we will come back to that on our own, but he should not ask me to make that commitment now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u118	I am not asking for a commitment, but I would like to be very keen on that self-evidentness because I do have the necessary experience with it. I'm not taking it for granted. So what I would like to know from the Minister is whether she will allow the scope of the motion to be reflected in her assessment in the letter. That may not be understood as a commitment as it stands, but it is up to me whether she is prepared to come back to it, as it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u119	I'm being careful. Mr Kuzu will understand that, because I have just said in the first term that in my opinion there is no arbitrariness, but local circumstances which are quite different from each other. I have also argued that the hand-out is also a motion on this issue which has been tabled by Amsterdam and the national police. They can be applied anywhere. Nevertheless, I would like to leave room for that local consideration. So I want to take a good look at it and I will include it in the discussions, but I may be able to reach a different judgment from Mr Kuzu, so I do not want to make a substantive commitment in his direction. But I don't know if he'll still want to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u120	That is exactly the question I wanted to ask Mr Kuzu. What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u121	In order to hold the motion, it is enough for me if the Minister states in the letter she is going to send for the summer holidays that he will return to this subject. I think that's what I hear in her answer. That's why I'm holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u122	At the request of Mr Kuzu, I propose his motion (29614, No. 79). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u123	Thank you, Mr Kuzu. Then the motion to part No. 80, by Mrs Özütok. That motion is reflected in the manual of the national police and the municipality of Amsterdam, which I have just spoken about. I think that's a good, accessible manual. I am prepared to do what is stated in this motion. For that reason, I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. The third motion, in part No. 81, belongs to Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen. That's actually the same thing. I just said that there is a report from the Ombudsman. That suggests a number of situations, but they can be quite different. I think that the motion is too early in this respect, so perhaps Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen would like to do the same as Mr Kuzu: first wait for the cabinet's reaction to the report and thus continue the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u124	I want to hold the motion and... Actually, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u125	At the request of Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, I propose her motion (29614, No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u126	That concludes this debate. I would like to thank the Minister, the Members of Parliament, the staff and the people who have followed this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-24.u127	We shall vote on the motion tabled next Tuesday.
