ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35004, Fixing 2019 tariffs for storage of renewable energy. I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to Mr Earthema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. Just like at the end of last year, I am standing here again on behalf of a lot of Dutch people who will soon have to pay a lot more for their energy bill. Once again, on the last day of the year, the increased ODE rate has to be pushed through. The thumb screws are tightened tighter every year. In addition to energy taxes and VAT, customers pay ODE, i.e. storage of renewable energy. It is about taxation of energy in order to fill the subsidy pot for renewable energy, rather windmill tax. The financial proceeds from the ODE are used to subsidise renewable energy, inefficient renewable energy. That's why there's got to be funding, tens of billions in the coming years. In this case, subsidising is another word for: squeezing the citizen for this expensive hobby. In his reply to our questions, the Minister has also simply admitted that the Dutch contribution is negligible, but this is the idea. We've made commitments. It has to be. We need to set an example, and so on. Next year, the average household will pay an additional €68 for renewable energy, on top of last year's €90. And that's not the end of it. The windmill tax, this ODE, will continue to rise to hundreds of euros per family over a few years. The energy bill will increase by about €360 on average next year. The results of the Polish summit have not yet been taken into account. Because if you agree that the same rules will apply to all countries, but that rich countries will help the poor, then the bill will come to us as well. Soon the proposals will come from the climate tables. Also there will be spicy price tags on it. It must be paid for by the citizens and entrepreneurs of this country. Mr. Chairman. With the forthcoming increase in the ODE tariff, the citizens are once again the loser. Also people with a minimum wage, AOW or small, unindexed pension should simply pay along, whether they can or not. Does the Minister have any idea of the consequences of the rising energy bill? Can the Minister imagine that many simply cannot do this? How many people get late payments? At present, more than 150,000 people are late in payment. This will have several causes, but the most important one is that energy costs are rising out of control. Does Minister have an image of this and what is he going to do about it? How far does this minister intend to raise the energy bill? Until many citizens are literally sitting in the cold or in the dark? The answer to our written questions also clearly shows that this cabinet continues to increase ODE because it wants to continue to fill the subsidy pot. At all costs one wants to continue with this billion-dollar nonsense, while the goals are not being achieved, even though it is a drop in the ocean. Those who think that humans can influence the climate suffer from a serious form of delusion of grandeur. Despite the very small contribution, this cabinet wants to continue. Whatever happens in the rest of the world, we're still the best little boy in the class, or rather crazy Henkie. With this cabinet we have a lot to wait for: even more windmills, even more money to pay for this, even more money to be spent on biomass, while everyone knows that this emits more CO2 than coal. Last year I noted that the burden ratio between the citizen and the business community was completely distorted. Despite your brave efforts to force industry to reduce its emissions, they pay much less for energy on balance. In addition, the bill will be left to the public. The Party for Freedom wants the Cabinet to stop this climate madness. The subsidy to zero also means the ODE to zero. The climate goes its own way. We should not be throwing billions at that to make our grandchildren later conclude that it hasn't helped, that they have been in the cold for nothing, that we no longer had money for decent care and education. I am therefore tabling a motion on behalf of our group to bring the ODE tariff down to zero. The President shall: Mr Aardema, Mr Dercksen, Mr Peter van Dijk, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Hattem, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Kok, Mr Van der Sluijs and Mr Van Strien proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas this legislative proposal is related to the overall package of climate action as discussed at the climate tables, the elaboration of the Climate Law and subsequent laws and regulations, and calls for a substantial financial contribution from Dutch society;]] [[Calls on the Government to reduce this rate to zero euros when setting the rates of ODE for 2019 and for further years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35004-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today I am speaking on behalf of the SP and GroenLinks groups. This proposal is about the 2019 energy bill, which has now fallen on the doormat of many people and which has shocked many people. Part of that account is about the so-called storage of renewable energy, the ODE storage. Today we are talking about this contribution to the promotion of renewable energy. That contribution goes up considerably when it comes to the cabinet. Perhaps it would be a good idea to express my surprise at the fact that, for example, the CDA and Christian Union colleagues are not speaking here, given all the violence we have heard from their foremen over the last few days. The political groups of the PvdA, SP and GroenLinks do not want to repeat the debate in the Lower House here. We are therefore concentrating in this Chamber on two things that fit our role and our task: first justice and then effectiveness. I shall begin with a just division between the lusts and the burdens. In this proposal, the contribution to the promotion of renewable energy is 50% paid by Dutch households and 50% by companies. That sounds very fair, fifty-fifty, but it's not. For 80% of CO emissions are caused by companies and only 20% by households. The distribution of 50-50 is therefore far from proportional to actual emissions. In fact, the more you pollute, the less you pay per m or per unit. According to the accountant Ernest & Young, households will pay 2.8 billion more in energy taxes in the coming years than the amount of damage they cause. On the contrary, companies pay EUR 1.8 billion less than the amount of damage they cause. So the polluter does not pay, whereas we believe that this should be the starting point. That is really unfair, judging the groups of the Labour Party, SP and GroenLinks. We wonder whether the Minister agrees with that view. If not, why not? Besides... I see someone walking to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-4.u5	And that's what I'm going to do. Mr. Earthema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-4.u6	I hear Mrs Fiers talking about the imbalance between business and the citizen, but can you explain to me who will ultimately get the bill presented if business will also have to pay more? I think it is true that this is calculated to the citizen, to the consumer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-4.u7	If I may continue my speech, I shall return to that in a moment. Is that a good plan? Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-4.u8	Did you ask through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-4.u9	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-4.u10	I understand. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-4.u11	Moreover, it is precisely companies that benefit most when the money is distributed. Of all subsidies from the ODE jar, three-quarters go to business, so the less you contribute, the more you get. The proposal before us is therefore in fact two-fold unfair. We are curious whether the Minister shares this conclusion. The big question then is, of course, what this relationship should look like. The answer to this question is complex. I can see the Minister nodding 'cause there are many changes coming to us at the moment and there are many factors that play a role in this. The Minister is not enviable in that sense. In the government's juice appreciation of the main elements of the climate agreement, it was announced that the cabinet would launch a reconnaissance on the financing of the SDE grant with a focus on burden sharing between households and businesses. That's very nice. The question to the minister is why, while he is actually still looking at what would be the best ratio, he is already raising tariffs in the existing unfair distribution in 2019. Isn't it better to wait until the recon is done? Or better yet, why not move on to a more equitable distribution of these burdens now? Not worked out behind the comma, because we understand that this is difficult at this stage, but just steer it in the right direction. The Netherlands Bank has found that there is room for more taxation on industry, as they pay less for energy and emissions than competitors in their neighbouring countries. The Central Planning Bureau had already noted this in the Macro Economic Explorations. So again the question to the Minister: why not just adjust a little at this stage? Why so cautious towards business? Households are just being presented with this unfair bill, so why not treat their interests a little more carefully? I would then like to comment on the effectiveness of this measure on behalf of the PvdA, SP and GroenLinks. The logic behind this proposal is that households will take action through this pricing, for example by taking insulating measures or investing in solar panels, in order to remove the price increase or the high burden. That also makes sense, but that is not possible for some of those households. This applies to two categories, namely tenants and people without investment opportunities. First of all, the tenants. Almost eight out of ten tenants indicate that their house is poorly isolated and that they suffer from cold and draft. Another four out of ten tenants indicate to have only glass in the house. So reason enough, you might say, to take energy-saving measures. But the tenants depend on the moment when the landlords, mostly housing corporations, come into action. And you do not hear me say that the tenants are by definition worse off than the property owners, but they do not decide the time when these investments are made. It's just the question, given the huge task that lies with the corporations, when you're up as an individual tenant. The tenants see the bill rise, but do not decide when action will take place. So here the proposed price increase is not effective. And then the second category of households for which the underlying reasoning does not apply, the people who have no money to make the house more energy efficient. These people are going to feel the higher energy bill in the coming years, but they do not have the financial resources to take action. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he has examined this proposal. If so, I am curious about his conclusion. If not, I wonder why he didn't. Finally, the polluter pays principle contributes to the innovation impulse for business. This is, in part, the response to the interruption that just took place. At a time when you are going to tax the business sector more, this could contribute to innovation which does not necessarily pass the bill one-on-one. I am curious to see the Minister's views on this. Finally, this brings me to the impact on affordability. There are already a lot of households in the Netherlands that are struggling to pay the energy bill. According to the Nibud, 10% of households in the Netherlands have too high an energy bill compared to their income. They're having trouble paying the energy bill. For this we recently have a new concept in the Netherlands: energy poverty. With this proposal, the cabinet wants to increase the energy bill of households. According to the Association Eigen Huis, homeowners will pay an average of €150 more in energy taxes in 2019. The Minister states in the debate in the Lower House that it is much less. He's talking about a gross increase of €108. Whatever it is, the power bill's going up. The very recent report of the Planning Office for the Environment is relevant here. This is where, in order to better understand the affordability of the energy account, a distinction is made between the energy ratio and the payment risk. In the analysis they come to different forms of financial vulnerability in the affordability of housing and energy. They come to the conclusion that over 500,000 households, after payment of the rent or mortgage and the energy costs, leave too little spending space to provide a minimum necessary living. Therefore, the following questions to the Minister. On the basis of this report from the PBL, does he expect an increase in late payments in the energy account? If not, why not? If so, how does he intend to solve this problem? Why not here, as with the effects on business, first find out what those effects are? I'm rounding up. To sum up, the groups of the Labour Party, the SP and GroenLinks believe that very careful surgery is taking place in relation to the possible negative effects on business. In the meantime, households will be presented with the account without any apology. We are curious about the Minister's answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-4.u12	Thank you. Oh, Mrs Fiers, you have to go back to the chair, because there is another question from Mr Earthema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-4.u13	I note that Mrs Fiers is concerned about the rising bill. What's that all about? By the ODE. How then is it that the Labour Party itself has agreed to the establishment of the ODE?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-4.u14	We're not against the ODE by definition. We believe that the bill should be distributed in a fair manner. Our plea here is to make sure that the bill is distributed more fairly. In this sense, we have a different view.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-4.u15	I still wonder whether it is fair to squeeze the citizens in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-4.u16	I think we share that concern. We agree that the current household account is disproportionately high.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-4.u17	Once again, thank you, Mrs Fiers. I give the floor to Mr Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-4.u18	Thank you, Mr President. The Sustainable Energy Storage Act was introduced in 2013 by the Rutte/Asscher cabinet. It fills the greenhouse for the SDE+ scheme from which we can pay for renewable energy initiatives. How necessary this is is demonstrated by the results achieved so far. They're still not impressive. The Netherlands is hopelessly behind in the field of renewable energy. In order to achieve the 2030 targets, there is still an enormous amount to be done. The government wants to raise the rates of ODE for 2019. This seems logical in the light of the necessary investments, but at the same time we see rising reservations for this purpose. SDE+ doesn't lose its funds. Can the Minister give us an overall view of the commitments that have been made and of the investment reservations for projects that will start in the coming year? We're gonna have to move fast. When this scheme started in 2013, a cost allocation was agreed which is still in force. About 50% of the costs are paid by citizens and 50% by businesses. It is the balancing of burdens on business and maintenance of purchasing power for households. The previous cabinet may have so determined, but the question is whether this system is still sustainable. We believe that the system should be revised. The polluter pays, is and will remain the most obvious starting point for the D66 Group's energy transition. In the ODE system, households pay relatively much more CO taxes than companies. The cabinet has a great deal of interest in the competitiveness of energy companies and industry, but in all the countries around us it is the same problem. What steps is the cabinet in Europe taking in this area to coordinate the measures? Let it be clear that the energy transition must be transparent, transparent and honest for everyone. In this context, it is good to keep the ODE system under review and to weigh the current system into the total of measures that the cabinet will have to take next year to achieve the objectives of the energy transition and to share costs fairly. Is ODE not in need of revision, are we asking the cabinet? We believe this to be the case. We hope that the results of the climate tables will have to be taken into account, especially in the light of the fact that the whole system will have to be kept under review. For us, it is very important that communication to citizens about the cost of the energy transition is crystal clear. It must be easy for everyone to understand how the burden is distributed so that miscommunications are avoided. Low incomes are compensated for the extra costs of ODE in the purchasing power proposals of the government that are also here today, but for the average Dutch people this is not easy to understand. There's gotta be another way. Use new communication tools to do so! The cabinet and politics are faced with the task of making it clear, particularly in the energy transition, that burden sharing becomes fair and equitable and that the burden does not reach the weakest income groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-4.u19	I hear the honourable Member saying that there is a need for a fair distribution of the burden. I'm glad. That was also my point in my contribution. I'm just looking for what you think is the right time to take action on that. There is now a legislative proposal that builds on that unfair distribution. Isn't this a good time to say: ho, stop, until here and no further?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-4.u20	Yes, I just heard you say that. What you are saying here is something different from what the PvdA Group in the House of Representatives said. I hope that by 21 December we will get the proceeds from the climate tables. Maybe the Minister can say a little more about that. A comprehensive package will have to be drawn up. I believe that we should keep this under review and also check on the principles of fair distribution of income and burden-sharing. That seems to me to be the time to keep the whole system under review and to make the assessments. Otherwise, we're in the middle of something, and that's unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-4.u21	I am not in favour of snapshot either, but sometimes it helps to take a clear first step in the right direction. Do I hear you say that we are waiting for the overall package and then we are going to take that step? Are you saying that we should let this go, too bad for anyone who is now getting that high bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-4.u22	No, of course that's not what I said at all. You have also heard from me that the low incomes in the total of tax and income measures taken by the Cabinet are compensated, including for this increase. That is the way it should be, but I agree with you that the total amount of measures that come at low incomes must be different. Then you have to make a total picture, then you have to share the burden fairly. I agree with you that it is now also up to business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-4.u23	Finally, a question. I hear you say that there will be an agreement at the end of the week and that it will have to be weighed up. I'm assuming it's not gonna take a year for that to be weighed up. Is it then an option for you to send a message to the cabinet here in the Chamber to the effect that if you come back next year with this distribution of the cost of the energy bill, we think that it should at least be adjusted so that there is less burden on households and more on business? Would you be inclined to send such a signal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-4.u24	If you've listened carefully, you've already heard me say that. Mr. Chairman. In the energy transition, I repeat, it is the D66 Group's view that it should never lead to an additional division in society and that industry will have to pay for CO emissions. This also gives incentives to introduce innovative measures that drastically reduce CO emissions. This can also give us an international lead in this area, which will create jobs. We also want the social housing to be the first to be made sustainable. Those residents may benefit from the transition and the lower costs as a result. We will test the energy transition measures against those objectives. Mr President, we look forward with interest to the Minister's answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-4.u25	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. Is there anyone else in the Chamber who would like to contribute? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-eerstekamer-4.u26	I'm suspending the meeting for lunch until 1:30.
