ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr Azarkan's questions to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security on the possible presence of customs officers of the United States at Schiphol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr President, thank you. The temperature also made me leave my jacket at home. Mr. Chairman. "Sacrifice, contrary to our values, disgusting." These are just a few reactions from Dutch politicians to the Muslimban of Donald Trump. Trump didn't want to admit people from seven Islamic countries. And what is my surprise? Last night I read that American customs officers are coming to our Schiphol. That's where they're gonna check passports for travelers traveling to the United States. Prime Minister Rutte said yesterday after talking to Donald Trump that the Americans reacted positively to this. It's a deal to take the next step. Does Donald Trump's xenophobic and discriminatory long arm reach our airports now? Are we involved in his creepy 'own people first' policy, which was first fired legally? Will Trump's Muslim ban be applied to our Dutch territory soon? That's what I'm wondering. Mr. Chairman. I'm worried about that. The previous cabinet shared these concerns. Negotiations on customs officers were suspended by the previous cabinet because of President Trump's entry ban on those seven Muslim countries. When Secretary of State Dijkhoff said: measures are now being taken which we do not agree with, and then we just press the pause button. In his well-known nonchalant way, he stopped that story. My questions to the current Secretary of State are as follows. Is it true that soon customs officers of the American government will be stationed at Schiphol? What exactly are these customs officers gonna do? What are their duties? What jurisdiction are they going to review these? What's different at the moment than in the previous cabinet? What's changed that it's gonna happen now? Mr President, first of all, I would like to ask you a few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-5.u3	I now turn to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr President. What we're talking about is the possibility of pre-clearance, where when you've gone through Dutch border surveillance at Schiphol Airport, you'll then go through American border and customs control, so you'll enter America as if you were a domestic passenger. This has been the subject of discussion for a number of years. Due to the entry ban announced in early 2017 without any further clarification as to what that would include and how that would be maintained, the negotiations were then frozen. This means that they have in the meantime continued at a technical administrative level. Then, for example, we are talking about issues such as the impact. How exactly do you manage that at Schiphol? How are you supposed to shape that technically? We said at that time: if that comes to an end and you have to continue the negotiations at political level, we will report it to the Chamber. Mr Azarkan's first question was: is it true that they will soon be stationed? No, that's not true. We're not that far. What is going on is that we, as a cabinet, said two weeks ago that we want to continue the negotiations at political level. That doesn't mean those negotiations are already a runaway race. The Netherlands already had a number of conditions. Should those American border guards be armed at the airport? We don't want that. How does it relate to the Dutch privacy legislation or the GDPR? We also want a provision that if anything changes in America's legislation, we can suspend the operation of pre-clearance. That's all things we need to discuss. Since we sent that letter to the Chamber, it has been added that the Supreme Court in America has ruled on the admissibility of the entry ban. As a cabinet, we then said that this is an extra matter that we are considering. In other words, we are checking whether this is in line with the national laws and regulations and the international conventions that apply here in the Netherlands. We do not yet have the answer to that. That's what we're gonna find out. So that also affects the question of whether we can ever reach agreement with the United States on pre-clearance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. Does that mean that we are first asking the Americans if they are prepared to supply customs officers and that we are going to prepare them, while we actually have the most essential question to answer: is this not contrary to our Constitution and to international treaties? I ask the Secretary of State why this reverse road? Why submit the request in advance, when we actually still have to examine the most crucial question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-5.u6	That question's been on the table a long time. It is precisely in order to bring that to a successful conclusion that we also include this question. Of course, we do not wait until the negotiations are complete and then again to answer the question of how this relates to the ruling of the Supreme Court. So the moment that we have clarity about this, that means something for the continuation or non-execution of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-5.u7	Are we not contributing to the further stigmatisation of Muslims and the deterioration of the relationship with those seven affected countries? What does that mean for international relations? What is the Dutch Government going to do to rule out the discriminatory nature of Trump's policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-5.u8	One correction, since Mr Azarkan indicated in his introduction that seven were mainly Islamic countries. In the meantime, that list has changed. Countries have also moved away from this since the beginning. Other countries such as North Korea and Venezuela have been added. Once again, the cabinet considers whether this is in accordance with Dutch law and regulations, because we do not intend to cooperate on matters that contradict this. That is essentially also the answer to Mr Azarkan's question: no, we do not want to participate in all kinds of things that we ourselves would not do in the Netherlands, but we are going to study the ruling of the Supreme Court and then answer the question as to whether this is compatible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. Thank you. Oh, there is another question from Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-5.u10	I do think everyone wants shorter rows at Schiphol Airport, but nobody wants that to happen by removing Muslims from that line. That is why I am very pleased that the Secretary of State is so clear and says that if something is signed, it will at least be in line with the Constitution and the international treaties. I very much agree with that. I would also like to ask him whether the test he is referring to, the test of the decision recently taken by the Supreme Court, can be submitted to the House of Representatives in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-5.u11	Of course, because if I announce that here, that is something the Chamber should know in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-5.u12	Of course, it must be constitutionally correct, but I also attach the economic importance to it. Can the Secretary of State answer that? What does this mean for the traveler? What benefits are attached to it? What does this mean for the competitiveness of Schiphol as a hub across the ocean?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-5.u13	In short. The benefit of the traveller will be evident, namely a much faster arrival in America. At the airport of departure you usually have to wait a while and that waiting time is used for the entry check in the other country. That's travel time savings, because you can go through America in no time. That is why that concept is not new either. It's been used in Canada for years. It is also applied in Europe, in Ireland. There are also other countries in the world where it is applied. Several countries in Europe are discussing this form of pre-clearance with the United States. Sweden has recently come to an agreement with the US. These discussions are taking place in other European countries. In essence, that is also the answer to the question of what it means for competitive conditions. Airports also look at each other: at which airport can you book the most travel time savings? If you don't have a pre-clearance, you're at a disadvantage compared to airports that do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-5.u14	The benefits are clear and clear. If I listen carefully to the Secretary of State, I come to the conclusion that the initiative to establish such a facility at Schiphol is based on the Dutch cabinet rather than on pressure from the American side. Is that conclusion correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-5.u15	There's no pressure. You can, in a manner of speaking, see it as an offer made by the United States to a number of countries to establish such facilities. But then the Dutch cabinet said: if this happens on Dutch soil, it must be on conditions that are in line with our laws and regulations. So there's no pressure from one side or the other. It is an offer made by the United States and to which we would like to respond by saying that it must be within our laws and regulations, but if it is appropriate then it would be a very nice provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-03-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. and then we shall vote.
