ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u1	The next item is the continuation of the General Political Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u2	I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to speak a single introductory word and then reply to eight small chapters. In the meantime, I think you have also seen the list: economics, labour market, purchasing power, climate, migration and integration, international, security and justice, care and a little varia section. Under varia I will then deal with the questions about gas, the housing market, democracy, the Crown Domain and the stable animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u4	What was that last one?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u5	The stable animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u6	Oh, the stable animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u7	A little bit like from the quartet, do you have the cow from the stable animals for me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u8	I was wondering if you would not talk about justice and security at point 7 instead of the other way around, but that doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u9	It's from the Ministry of Justice and Security, the subject of security and justice, that's right. But perhaps I should treat the subject consistently as 'justice and security'. I think that would be better, because I do hear the left flank of the coalition grunting comments about that, so I will take that over: justice and security. Mr President, first a single introductory word. We commemorated Wim Kok here earlier today, a man who, in the best administrative traditions of our country, could jump over his own shadow and always seek the compromise. I would like to remind you today of May 1999, almost 20 years ago, when Prime Minister Kok came here to discuss the consequences of a possible rejection of the legislative amendment to the Constitution in the third term, well after midnight, in your speech. The night of Wiegel: some of you will have a lively memory of it. The Prime Minister said at the time that rejection of the proposal would seriously affect the space available to the cabinet to continue its work. In doing so, he announced the cabinet crisis that would follow. But he also said that he "didn't want to undermine the own, inalienable responsibility of the members of this Chamber to reach the final balance." Despite the great political interests at stake, the Prime Minister refused to take the step that would further politicise the relationship between the cabinet and this Chamber. That feeling of Wim Kok for the political relations deserves admiration. Madam President, that brings me to the importance of this debate with the First Chamber. We like to stand here with conviction. On the one hand, because this is an opportunity on behalf of the cabinet after one year of government with our first full budget of our own to present our vision for the coming years. On the other hand, because the debate here is a little less short-term than in some other places, and thus an additional deepening, also for the policy-making that this cabinet is serving and aiming for in the coming years. That against the backdrop of a country where the economy is running well, unemployment is low and purchasing power is developing favourably. So that is a solid ground on which we can stand at the moment. And yet, as many of you have said, not all people experience it that way. This is the most important task that the cabinet has set itself: to ensure in the coming years that more people experience that this country is doing better and that the politics, some people have felt they are not there for them, want to be there for them. This is based on the belief that a government has two core tasks: to keep the country safe and to ensure a strong economy. At the same time, it is necessary to implement a number of necessary major and far-reaching reforms. Many of you have spoken today about the energy transition and the achievement of the climate objectives. I'll be right back to talk about it. There are also reforms in the areas of pensions and the labour market and the major transition that is taking place in Groningen. We are going to talk about this too. We are convinced, however, that this coalition and this cabinet are also preaching that these reforms offer opportunities for our country. We also believe that we can implement them in a way that ultimately ensures that, across a broad front, the whole country can experience these changes, that they are bearable. Mr. Chairman. With these introductory remarks in mind, I would like to begin by answering the questions in the area of the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u10	Before that, Mr Kox has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u11	Because I think it fits with the Prime Minister's introduction, Mr. President. The objective is noble. The Prime Minister says that the cabinet ultimately wants to create the broadest possible support in society. That's commendable. I referred to the study by Kim Putters of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. It does not establish that a lot of people agree with the cabinet and that a lot of people disagree with the cabinet. That is quite normal. However, it is noted that a certain part of the population, namely the better-educated and more-earning part, is generally of the opinion that it is going quite well with society and also with the government, which is the latter then a derivative, one might say, but that the lower-educated and the less-paid seem to be moving in the opposite direction, in the vein of: no, it is not going in the right direction. This is about concepts such as trust in the government, parliament, justice and the police. This separation of minds based on the education and income of people must be of concern to the Prime Minister, who is also a historian. It's more than people are sometimes for that party and sometimes for that party. It looks more like a water separation than an accidental cyclical choice. Can the Prime Minister reflect on that for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u12	It is an observation that is made more often. This gap in society also affects access to systems. How empowering do you have to be to get the treatment you think is important to you at the time? How important is mouthiness at a time like this? So it can also express your verbally, in those very complicated arrangements that our society knows can make you understandable, is part of that division. This may also have to do with educational attainment, not necessarily with financial income. We see that gap. That is precisely why we have said to each other in this long-term formation: if we already have a pretension as a coalition, it is precisely this. It is to work with the whole of politics and society to close these gaps as much as possible. In financial terms, we are about the most levelled country in the world, I believe after Sweden. Our benefits are among the highest in the world, after Denmark. Having said that, as long as people feel that they may, in many cases, have fallen into a situation which strengthens it, that they are not part of this society, that they are not part of the project that is so dear to us all here, that this society is moving on and that, across a broad front, people can go along with it, that is a loss and we cannot accept it. That is exactly why this cabinet is working on what we are working on, from investing in the public sector to all the other things we do in the field of shaping the changes so that everyone can experience them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u13	Finally, Mr President. I welcome the Prime Minister's consideration, but I think it goes even deeper. Of course, we want to blame the Prime Minister for everything that is not going well here in the country, but this really goes deeper. Reference has been made to 2002. A process has been initiated at the moment no one expected it and that process has not stopped since. You can see that it is not based on political preferences, but on being people, being people's society, that they more or less lose interest in politics or more or less retain it. In my view, this requires more than just a cabinet programme to take a number of measures. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister again whether he sees this much more fundamental development. It is not for the Netherlands alone. At the eastern neighbors we see about the same. Does he also see this development and should we not have a much wider policy for it? I would like to make one final comment. I refer to a motion by Egbert Schuurman here in this Chamber, under the Balkenende cabinet, that there was a number of crisis in society and that the government should be asked to look at these crises in connection with each other and then to look at how we could regain the confidence of a large group of the population, which is so drifting away, in the long term. That's what you have to do with more than just a budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u14	I agree. Nor was it my argument that you can do that with a budget or that one cabinet can do that alone. There are so many facets to this issue. It has to do with training and with income position, but also with issues of migration and integration. There has also been talk here and there today, sometimes in rather crude terms, about the fact that in some neighbourhoods you can like the fact that there is a Turkish bakery, but that there are also areas that have changed very much and where people have hardly been able to experience this change, which makes them feel that the elite would not have seen it. Whoever that elite is and whoever feels addressed by that word. At least I don't feel that way, but well, others probably think of us as elite. We wouldn't have seen that. Everything we are doing is in the field of integration, limiting migration and ensuring that you remain open to the real refugees, but in numbers that are manageable it is necessary to be in dialogue with society. We have to say: listen, everyone has their job. At the school where I teach, where mostly immigrant children are, I have sometimes said bluntly: you also have to fight a little bit in that society. If you're discriminated against, you have a choice. I'm against discrimination. There are laws against that too, and I will always fight it. But if it does happen to you, don't get upset. It is also part of a large group of people who come from outside fighting. I believe that we should ask the whole of society, ethnic minority and indigenous people, not to sit down, to take their responsibilities and to contribute. But then we have to make sure that the switches are in good shape. One of the changes that was not good, for example, was the large influx of refugees and the complete lack of attention to serious integration: people explain what our values are and what kind of society they come into. We have now all come across a broad front, including the Socialist Party, much harder, as some would say, or more realistic, as others would say. That is one aspect of all those aspects that have to do with the fact that in this society, although levelled in the income position and high benefits, all this is happening. I think that is terrible and this cabinet is appalled. That's exactly pages 1 and 2 of the coalition agreement. That ambition is there, but you are right that we cannot do it on our own. We will all have to do that, with the whole of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u15	I would like to invite the Prime Minister to be more specific. On the one hand I see a problem and on the other hand a solution. The problem is a persistent gap. The Council of State warns of it. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau writes that the winners win and the losers lose. 4% remains structurally behind, 30% feels angry and 35% is uncertain. On the other hand, I hear the Prime Minister say that we are going to spend more money and in dialogue with society. But I do not yet see the link between the problem and the solution very strongly, and I would like to know what the cabinet has done because it intends to give up on the coalition agreement and what we can expect from the cabinet in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u16	My answer to Mr Kox was that you cannot do that as a single coalition. There is no such thing as a clog-up programme. If it were that simple, the previous cabinet had already done so with the Labour Party and the VVD. That's when we had that ambition. The ambition is to analyse and tackle the problem, but you have to do it across a broad front. That's not just money. The fact that we spend extra money on education or security, for example, making neighbourhoods safer, is, of course, part of it. When we look at the distribution of income, we have these terrible purchasing power figures in the Netherlands. Of course, they have a useful purpose somewhere, namely to be able to engage in dialogue on whether we still believe that it is being distributed in a fair and just way in society. This then leads to a rigidity that doesn't make you feel good, but it does help to be able to conduct that dialogue. It is true that I am not happy about the gini coefficient, which Mr Brinkman seemed to distance myself from, but he is useful as a starting point for a discussion on whether we have settled things properly in this country. You will have to look at all these aspects: education, migration, integration, income distribution, security. Again, I hate the word "elite," I don't feel at home and I'm not, but others will probably see you and me that way. How do you make sure, if you're going to live in that label "elite" for a while, that you and I don't get a feeling that you and I have settled for ourselves, that we don't know what's going on in the rest of society and then think, "Well, let that happen"? That is exactly the ambition of the first pages of the coalition agreement. But it's a pretence, not arrogance. It's not the arrogance that we solve that with a little program. No way. It's a lot more complicated than that. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the first heading: economics. There were a number of questions. One is quite in line with one aspect of this, namely: what about public services? First of all, can I say that this cabinet has invested in everything at once? We need to reduce the load. The government debt needs to be in order. We invest in public services. We're trying to do all these things at the same time. About 4 to 6 billion more goes there. I do not think it is necessary to investigate the importance of judges, teachers, policemen, military and health care workers. If anyone doubts their interest, I invite that party to investigate why they're making money in their program. I do not think that research is necessary, because it is these groups that ultimately appear before all of us in the field, keep this society running and ensure administrative stability and security. They also ensure that we score well, compared to other Nordic countries and America. In general terms, we must note that this administrative stability and that security and education also all contribute to a country where the companies you need to ensure that all that money is spent on public services, wants to settle down and stay here. It's not for nothing that, when you look at all the international reports, we're always in the top five, top six of best performing economies. If you add up and share, according to the Financial Daily, we are even in second place. That's a wide range of factors. Also the digital infrastructure. I'll have Microsoft's boss visit tomorrow. He is calling for us to maintain our digital infrastructure. Well, that's convenient. That is what we are working on, up to and including all the other aspects I have just mentioned, from education to security. That has our constant attention, but it seems pointless to me to investigate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u17	I am pleased that the Prime Minister agrees with me that the public sector is making an important contribution to the locational environment. What I'm still struggling with is that the cabinet on the one hand indicates a lot of investment in the public sector, but on the other hand there was protest in The Hague on 2 October by teachers, care and police staff and that this is happening again on 10 November. They feel that there is insufficient investment in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u18	Yes, welcome to politics, I'd say. Not against you personally, but against anyone who finds out. We make choices in scarcity. I understand, if I work the education, that I would like to say: there can always be extra money to education. No, because we also need to invest in the locational environment, lower taxes, teachers, care, military and our defence capabilities. So you always have to make choices in scarcity. The amount of resources is limited. At the same time, this is one of the most expansive budgets of the last 40 years. You really have to go back to a distant social-democratic predecessor to get these kinds of figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u19	The PM just said you need an antenna for society, otherwise you'll be thrown away as an elite and they won't listen anymore. This is where I really miss the antenna. The Prime Minister says very easily: there is scarcity, so we have to choose. On the contrary, they, in the public sector, do not feel that there is a shortage and still do not take what they need seriously. Of course there has been an increase in expenditure, but that does not mean that sufficient money has been invested in this extra quality and in reducing the workload. That's the point. That is what the Prime Minister should be looking into. The question is whether these choices have been made sufficiently sharp to ensure that the public sector, which the Prime Minister claims to be so important, can actually reach a sufficient level.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u20	I actually want to answer that question by answering the question put by Mr Engels. He said: you shouldn't put it all in just a salary increase; look what else is needed to make it attractive to work in those sectors. I come with that turn to answer your question, because I agree with that. It is true that we are partly investing in improving remuneration, but we are also taking many other measures in the collective sector. For example, look at what we are doing right now in primary education. There goes almost half a billion, 450 million structurally, to tackle the workload, exactly the point you just mentioned. 450 million out of the total budget for primary education, primary education, is a great deal of money. Still, I go everywhere, just like you go everywhere, on work visits or just because you get there privately. You talk to your friends. So you get relevant information from all sides. Then you'll always hear that of course it should be even more. But putting half a billion in the reduction of work pressure on our primary schools, in our primary education, is a lot. I agree with Mr Engels: not just salaries. At the same time, you can also see that we are taking all kinds of non-financial initiatives to make working in the public sector attractive. Look at the Defence initiative to facilitate the exchange of personnel between Defence and employers in the private and collective sector. Also look at where Hugo de Jonge and Bruno Bruins, the ministers in the field of VWS, are working on the Work in Care Action Plan, to provide sufficient qualified staff for care and well-being and also to make that work more attractive. And then, again an n=1 experience: yes, when you talk to people, they sometimes talk about income, they talk more regularly about the workload, but mostly I hear the theme appreciation. Is there any appreciation in this society for what we do for young children, for our elderly people in the nursing homes, for the fact that when we go to the hospital, I have had to deal with this indirectly recently. Is that even appreciated? I don't think so. That too is part of it: that people know that those who appear in the field for us all, force enormous respect on you and me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u21	That's exactly what they're missing. The policy does not appreciate the quality of the work they need to do. I think that's what these demonstrations are about. It's not about more salaries. The issue is: "We ourselves do not believe that we can meet standards that we believe should apply in the public sector."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u22	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u23	Look, of course, extra money has been invested in both workload and salaries, but it is also a fact that they have been cut off for years, until the economic crisis. So part of it is just recovery. Well, then the point is, what do you choose? If you have 2 billion extra, because a gift has not gone through,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u24	I saw him coming!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u25	...doesn't it make sense for you to meet the public sector with part of it, especially to get that quality back to its level?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u26	I'm going to explain why I understand the question, but I don't agree with the conclusion. Then the faint answer would be that we are now investing more in the public sector than any party here had in its electoral programme. That can be because we have all come out of the crisis, fortunately we have a strong growing economy and we can afford to do it. Mrs. Strik is right. With a total, after all the corrections, reversal package of 46 billion since 2010, and certainly between 2012 and 2017, we have to intervene in a lot of public sectors, which means that our economy is now, I say, growing twice as fast as that of France or Belgium, a full percent faster than that of Germany, and twice as fast as that of the United Kingdom. We are truly the fastest growing economy in this part of the world. That's because of it. That now leads to money that we can invest back in those sectors. Then comes politics. We, as politicians, have the task of doing all things at once. We cannot just say that we are investing even more in the public sector. There may then also be the problem that you can no longer find the people. Just look at the extra 2 billion that is going to the nursing homes and how difficult it is to get the people there at sufficient pace to fill all those jobs. But that's where 4 to 6 billion is headed now. But you also have to look at the rest of the Netherlands and the incomes. That's the relief. You have to make sure that your public finances stay healthy and well, and then I come to the question of "you must also make sure that you are an attractive country to continue investing." We are a small economy, much smaller than the British, the French or the Germans. We have a small home market, so we always have to run faster to keep growing so fast. We just have a smaller home market. So for companies that want to settle here, you always have to provide extra incentives to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u27	Mrs. Strik, a very small interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u28	In my first term, I indicated that the climate of establishment is fine. Especially if you compare it with the European countries on the continent, we have a low tax on profits, we have good services, then it is not necessary to bring companies even further here. So I hope the Prime Minister will go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u29	Still, about that point. I beg to differ. The average European VAT rate is 22% and in the Netherlands it is 25%. You might be able to afford that if you are France or Germany and you have a very big home market where companies come anyway, but we have to fight for the companies. It's not natural for them to come here. Of course, the Netherlands has some insane sides. The fact that your children can ride their bikes to school, up to and including that we are a compact country with, but often not today, a very good infrastructure, and all the other pluses we have, like our multilingualism. But in the end, it also looks at what your tax rates are. The reduction to 25% we have done in the past was largely due to the broadening of the basis. That wasn't just a relief for those companies. Again, the further reduction is only a real relief for the last piece; the rest is largely based on broadening the Vpb in order to reduce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u30	Mrs. Sent. I will give it to anyone who is going to interrupt: you can ask a question and a small follow-up question, but that is always the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with the Prime Minister that the locational environment is important, that it must be attractive for companies to come here. But does the Prime Minister agree with me that it is particularly important to attract companies that make many and good jobs available and that it is much less attractive for our country to attract multinational companies with a head office and ten employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u32	These multinationals are responsible for 30% of our investments and 20% of the jobs in the Netherlands. So one in five jobs comes from those big international companies. You know, there's so much behind it, like the whole sub-contracting industry. The famous Moroccan taxi driver in Rotterdam who said: "Die Rutte, he's a smart guy" because of abolishing the dividend tax. Well, that's true. But you can see, of course, the whole sub-contracting industry of taxis and cleaners, but also the whole innovation sector and everything that's around these big companies. Those are not only the law firms on the Zuidas, but also very simple SMEs where beautiful things are made that deliver to large companies. So you need it all: you have a rich structured economy like the Dutch, with some of the largest companies in the world that are there, and a beautiful financial sector and an insanely wide and richly diverse small and medium-sized enterprises. I think you need it all. Of course I agree with you that you are not interested in mailboxes. That's what we're trying to discourage. That is my conflict with Gert-Jan Segers, who wants to go to U2, on which I say: fine band, but it is a letterbox-e.g. Okay, little joke, you can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u33	For the sake of clarity, the Prime Minister says that we are reducing corporate tax, but that this is not a reduction in the burden, because it is to a large extent coming back through the extension of the tax base. I can't calculate that, but other people in my group can. They say that the reduction costs 5.7 billion, and if we take back what we get from the extension of the base, we see that this measure ultimately costs us 3.9 billion. This means that most of it does not come back through the broadening of the basis. I just want to clarify that, otherwise this Chamber will think we're giving it with one hand and getting it back with the other hand. But here we give with one hand three times as much as what we get with the other hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u34	The reduction in the coalition agreement was largely based on broadening. The piece we are doing now, thanks to the failure to continue the dividend tax, is, of course, a real relief. We should check those numbers to see if they match up to the decimal point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u35	I also have some difficulty in constantly raising the concept of 'location benefits'. Do we really need a much better locational climate? We must maintain a good locational environment, including for existing companies and not just for attracting businesses. Existing companies should also be able to exist here, for example at a reasonable profit tax. But do we need to attract many companies further? Do we have to get better and better in that respect? We already have a society that is completely full, where there are vacancies, where cities are full, where there are too few homes, where infrastructure is overloaded. How much do we want?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u36	You're gonna have to. We are now growing by 3% and we have barely any population growth. So where your economic growth is usually a major source of population growth, it has once been said: with this small population growth in the Netherlands, you will never get growth rates of 2.5% to 3.5%. The fact that it is now a success is, of course, partly a reflection of the crisis. We are an export-driven economy, so we always get started later in terms of economic growth. But it's been going spectacularly well for a number of years now. We believe this is also due to the fact that the government has reformed, reduced and is less burdensome on the overall economy. But if you do not then participate in the struggle for the location of companies and for the place where talent wants to go in the world, it will be impoverished very quickly. Leaving very large companies or not attracting large companies is harmful to the Netherlands. The fact that a big company like Booking.com is in the Netherlands means a lot of jobs and a lot of nationalities, which ultimately makes Amsterdam as a whole a more attractive place to settle down, but there are a lot of companies around it. The fact that the EEA, the European Medicines Agency, is coming to Amsterdam already leads to a wide range of interests of companies in the pharmaceutical industry that want to come to Amsterdam. Then, of course, you are right that there is then a problem, namely: how do you catch all this, English-language education, roads, houses? Those are all assignments you have. That's why you should also try to interest people in other places in the Netherlands. You can see the regions of Amersfoort, Zwolle, and Eindhoven, which grew very quickly, increasing in importance. I predict that this will also happen more northwards towards Leeuwarden and Groningen. That's inevitable, and that's good. And of course the east, so Twente. Sorry, Ank.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u37	Mr. Ten Hoeve, one more, a small, short interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u38	Yet that remains a choice for growth, forever by wanting to grow. There will have to be a certain development in society in order to maintain the level of prosperity. I think that's inevitable. But there is a choice how far you want to go with that. A choice for too much also leads to too many adverse effects, in my opinion. How do we find the balance in that? I think that's gonna be easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u39	I understand that, and that is also a debate we need to have. It must be good growth, it must be sustainable growth, we are not waiting for large polluting industries in the Netherlands or industries that violate animal rights. None of that is what you're looking for. They must be decent, decent and, as far as possible, green and sustainable growth-oriented enterprises. That's the kind of economy you want to be: not only services, but also manufacturing. I think the strength of the Netherlands is that we have been developing a larger manufacturing industry in recent years and we are also in engineering at a level where we can put the Germans to the brink. But if you don't, stop is really going backwards. The fact that we are now growing with these growth rates also means that our unemployment can hopefully continue to fall back to the level at the beginning of this century. We have not yet reached the lowest unemployment rate we had at the time. There are still young people who do not have a job, there are still people, even at an old age, who would like to get to work and have no job yet, so we are really not there yet. But I agree with you: you will have to ensure that this remains in balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u40	Following that, I think I saw the Prime Minister when he signed a contract with the representatives of AliExpress, who can then land their prullaria on Lelystad. Or did I dream that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u41	I don't know. We do so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u42	But what if that happened?I think I'm pretty sure that's true.You can't insist that it's a strengthening of the Dutch economy when a Chinese mail order house comes to Lelystad dump massive prullaria that the Chinese government takes charge of the postage costs and you say: great, we've brought in good trade? But that is, of course, the death blow for the Dutch economy and for the people who live around Lelystad airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u43	Take a province like Limburg: 12.5% of the Limburg economy is directly dependent on logistics. The entire south of Brabant along the border with Belgium is 10% to 15% dependent on logistics. That is an insanely large sector, which we are doing incredibly better than the surrounding countries. That's why they want to come here. Of course you want to be a gateway to Europe. And we can't determine by plane whether there's nice lego toys or junk in there, can we? Our influence doesn't go that far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u44	One more comment, Mr. Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u45	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. But you can at some point attach such importance to logistics, that the Netherlands will be under a large conveyor belt of everything we want to carry to the rest of Europe and which is actually very little use in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u46	But then I'm gonna try to put reality next to it. We have the best health system in Europe, perhaps in the world. We have the best retirement kit in the world, as it turned out this weekend. Still, there's a lot of work going on. Our benefits are among the highest in the world. In the Netherlands, we have found a unique combination of free, entrepreneurial production, capitalism, and a very strong social model, which has led to the top quality of our health care and our social security. But that has to be paid. Suppose we choose not to let Mr Ten Hoeve say that to say: we only go back in economic growth a little bit, because it doesn't have to be so fast; let's go slow down a little bit. Then that really has a huge impact on all the other arrangements. Then the money is gone, and then there is no longer the luxury to say: are we going to invest 4 or 6 billion more in our public sector? No, then that money simply isn't there. Then the country becomes impoverished. So you really have to do it and-and do it, but in such a way that as a small country of 200 by 300 kilometers with so many people and so much economic growth planologically also all fit well and so much so. And the Netherlands is very good at that. We are also among the best countries in the world. When I'm on those trade missions, they're so interested in us because we have those compact cities, because we've developed that whole smart-city thinking. That's what they're terribly interested in in the rest of the world. All these have become export products. So we can do it really well. If you don't want that, that's a choice. You get a different kind of economy, but then the tax revenues aren't there to pay for all these beautiful things. Mr. Chairman. There will be no separate bill for the reduction of corporate tax. This is in a total package in which all the pluses and minuses are on the measures for business. That was a question. Mr Brinkman asked: can you go through with this? He said: you are now taking all kinds of measures for infrastructure, justice and security, but is that money also available in the longer term, even if there is a budgetary counterwind? That's how I understood his question. I'm not going to repeat how good we are right now. Of course, it can be reduced once again, but there is now room to invest and intensify, with the themes Mr Brinkman mentioned, infrastructure, justice and security, as well as, of course, education and climate policy as our top priority. We have intervened in the crisis, and now we have a budget surplus and we see that our public debt is falling below 50% and will continue to fall further in the years to come. That's the expectation. I think that's exactly why we can take hits. If there were a sudden economic crisis, we could borrow 10% or 20% of national income, and we would still be below 60% of what was agreed in the Stability and Growth Pact. Why don't you kill yourself in Rome, where the debt is 130%? But I also understood Mr Brinkman's question in such a way that he said: beware that you do not spend all the money on economic growth; continue to work more and more to make state finances healthier. The Stability and Growth Pact also provides for this. That was in fact a question from Mr Schalk. He said: shouldn't you have put the 1.9 billion from the dividend tax into a further reduction in public debt and an increase in the surplus? I think we have a good balance now, but I agree with him, and in implication with Mr Brinkman, that we will, of course, have to ensure that public finances continue to develop sustainably. But we are now among the healthiest in Europe. Our public debt is half the Belgian and French debt, and it is also well below the German debt. So that also offers opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u47	Yes, that's beautiful, all those countries, but the Dutch children, the next generation, are worried about it. If we could borrow maybe 10% now, we're still below 60%, but no one should want that, of course. Shouldn't you be trying to drop as far down as you can? Because we just had a crisis, and we can have another one. It's possible. And we don't know how long or how deep it will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u48	Agreed. In itself, this is also the right thing to do with the European agreements. You should not only be below 3%; then you should also step by step improve your budget further. In the long term, you have to go to a shelf life surplus and you name it. There are ten parameters that you have to meet. We're all doing that right now. At the same time, there is still room to make these additional investments. This year, I think, we are going to see a very good surplus in the budget. This, of course, leads directly to a further reduction in public debt, which has already fallen as a percentage of income, because the economy is growing. So I think it's both possible. If you were to put everything alone in paying off the public debt and not seize these opportunities to further strengthen the public sector and, in this case, the investment climate... Every time it's the chicken's question with the golden eggs: what do I have to do to feed that chicken to get those golden eggs out in the future, and how do I avoid having the last golden egg at some point? We have to keep looking for that balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u49	I hear the Prime Minister praise the health of our real economy. Can he still reflect on the relationship between the financial and the real economy, the fact that the banking sector is three times the size of the real economy and is therefore a waterhead that poses incredible risks to the real economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u50	It is as if you have all answered my question, because this was the next question I wanted to answer. So thank you, Mrs. Sent. Your question was also about lessons from the previous crisis and what you need to do to ensure that banks pose a less high risk, with higher buffers and so on. When the crisis broke out in 2008-2009, the banks were about five times the size of our economy. It's a lot less now. I think you are right: they are now three to three and a half times the size of our economy. That's still a lot. That is also because we are an open, international exporting economy, with a few very large banks that also work worldwide. This is also of great benefit to the Dutch business community. But it also brings with it a risk, because if things were to go wrong, we would have to deal with it in part. That is why, of course, all kinds of demands have been made to raise the buffers, and we in the European Banking Union are working to separate the states and the banks through the construction of the Single Resolution Fund. That's all very important. To anyone who says to me, "Is that euro such a good idea?" I say, let's use one argument. Suppose in 2008 we had that small coin with a five-time banking sector in our economy. What would have happened in that crisis if we had the guilder? I think it would have been a very good chance that we had been speculated at the time. Thanks to the euro, this did not happen, because we were embedded in that large euro system. But your question is relevant. A lot of work has been done. The minimum capital and liquidity requirements have been increased. We have agreed at European level that investors, not governments, should first absorb the losses; then it is the bail-inable buffers. Furthermore, thanks to the Banking Union, there is now also better coordination and harmonisation. It's gonna happen. I have to say at this point that it is getting exciting whether, later this year, in the context of further completing the Banking Union, it will all be possible to work towards further reducing problem loans and further building the buffers for bail-in. That, plus a few more things we want, are conditions for the Netherlands to finally say that the ESM, the European stabilisation mechanism, could also be a backstop for the Single Resolution Fund. But that's really exciting for a while. The Basel Committee reached agreement in December last year on the completion of the Basel 3 capital framework, also known as Basel 4 or Basel 3.5. This brings more unity to the calculation of risk-weighted assets of banks. We are fully committed to that. Maybe I can get a question from Mr Kox right away. This was also about banks and the issue of the banking sector in the Netherlands. He mentioned all the examples we've seen recently. On the other hand, I would like to point out that we also need the banks very badly. They're important to our economy. They're our capitalists. At the same time, they have a very great social responsibility. This means, therefore, that they must prevent abuse of their services and that they must behave socially. Let us also note that DNB has acted hard in recent years where necessary, including by maintaining it hard. In the case of ING that is also on the other side, in the House of Representatives, the Public Prosecutor has looked into whether individuals could also be prosecuted. But at that time there was insufficient basis for this, because individuals were partly involved, and because it was also the system within ING that allowed this offense. As far as ING's specific example is concerned, I understand what the D.A. did there and how it all worked out. But I very much share Mr Kox's general point of view that they must take responsibility and be aware of their great social position. At the same time, this does not go against Mr Kox........................................................................................................................................................................................... Of course, we already have the strictest bonus rules in Europe in the Netherlands. Furthermore, the Minister of Finance is currently studying three legislative measures relating to fixed remuneration. They are now in public consultation. The debate on this is taking place on the other side and later this year, I assume, when it comes to legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u51	It is indeed not for us to take part in the decisions of the Public Prosecutor's Office. But what impact does it have on our population that two big banks, who have done well because the State was helping them when they were having a hard time, are both hit for three-quarters of a billion because they have done business that isn't right? This week Klaas O. was told: go to prison for six years. I'm not entering that verdict either; I'm sure it'll all be fine. I was just wondering what the difference is between a record thief and the elite, who in this case is fined for three-quarters of a billion because she has knowingly done things that are not right. What does that do with the confidence of, in particular, that part that I have just mentioned, which does not already have that much faith in justice, the police, the government and the parliament? What does that do with the trust? That was my question. I didn't just ask you if it was okay, I asked you if it was okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u52	I am not going to say anything about the comparison with the person concerned and this week, because of course this has to do with statements. I wouldn't have made that comparison either. Let's go back to the banks, because that's what we were talking about. That comparison is not necessary for our debate either. Anyway, I'm incredibly upset about that. That is not very parliamentary. I'm very annoyed by that. I think it's very... Listen, all the actors in our society and all the companies that are of good will are equally nice to me, so from the welfare mother who wants to get started from the benefit up to Shell investing in large, innovative sustainable projects. That is what I said in the House of Representatives. I assume that we all feel held to a number of basic norms and values. Mr Kuiper spoke very nicely about this in his first term. I'm assuming they're leading these companies, too. That is why I find it extremely damaging if large institutions do not do so. At the same time, I have to note that the system works in the sense that action is being taken, that fines are being imposed and that fines are being imposed. Of course, to everything that happens in our society you and I and all the other Dutch will have a reaction. They'll find something like that. At the same time, it is important to note that it is working and that we are taking measures together to prevent this. I just want to avoid being too easy to go along with it by saying: a whole sector is not okay with that. This sector is doing very good things. We also desperately need them for the growth of our economy and our prosperity. This has to stay in balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u53	Would the Prime Minister, together with the Minister of Justice and Security, consider it worth considering that in future we can take criminal action against these types of serious offences which are now faced with the fact that we cannot hold someone personally liable? Is that at least something the cabinet wants to think about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u54	I believe that this debate is also going on on the other side. I thought that was last week. I do not know exactly what the situation in that debate is, but it will be resumed soon. Then there is Mrs Keijzer's bill on the "strangle contracts" for shopkeepers in shopping malls. That is not my word, but Mr Schalk referred to it in that way. That is being worked on at the moment, so that shopkeepers cannot be forced unilaterally to open the days and times when they do not want to. Nor can the bill unilaterally force them to close the shop if they do not want to. In doing so, we do not intervene in the freedom of contract by excluding agreements on opening hours; parties should be able to agree on them. This bill is now in the internet consultation. This does not mean that an entrepreneur who has chosen to sign a contract stating that the store must open on Sundays does not have to comply with it in the future. That doesn't change. I'm joining the labour market. There's a lot of business there. Of course, it's a very big... This cabinet is a reform cabinet again. Well, that's the way it stays in the Netherlands. Even if there is no crisis, we need to reform today to keep our major arrangements in line with the future, whether it is gas extraction, pensions, the labour market or, of course, the climate. They're all very big themes, including ten more. But in the labour market there are a few very big things in the pipeline. For example, the labour market bill is being worked on in balance, where the government agreement measures are in place to modernise the labour market and to keep it down and flex less. It also states that the choice for the type of contract is conscious and that someone makes it on the right grounds. You want a labour market that works for everyone. So you want contracts to be concluded with the particular types of employment that people want and that they work for both employers and employees. This means adjusting the transition fee, differentiation of the WW premium after contract of employment and introduction of a cumulation ground into the dismissal right. All these cases are being continued. They're in the coalition agreement. Now they are back in the cabinet, after they were sent to the Council of State at the end of June. I'm actually expecting us to send them to the House of Representatives in early November. In addition, we are working on thezzp-file, of course a very difficult subject. Of that, we all know about what we want. There may still be discussion within a certain range, but then we all have to make it possible. Part of this is the fight against bogus self-employment and the protection of people at the bottom of the labour market. The last stand-of-business letter from Wouter Koolmees, the Minister for Social Affairs, was dated 22 June last. It's really complicated. Today we also happened to talk about it again. The agreement is that the Minister will send another letter with an update before the end of the year. That's not because we have coalition stuff about it, but because it's just technically complicated to solve it. The letter of 22 June also announced that an independent committee would be set up to look at developments in the labour market and to give broad advice on that labour market. We are talking about labour law, social security and taxation for the medium and longer term. This committee will be set up shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u55	I understand that this WAB, the Labour Market Act in balance, is the only bill that's coming at us right now. I look forward to the Minister's next letter on thezzp'ers. There is, however, a very pressing problem that requires legislative change, especially the point that many of them are in financially precarious situations because they have no pension provision and no insurance. The most important thing would therefore be to ensure that these groups are guaranteed access to pension and insurance provisions. The question is what the cabinet will do with that. Can we look forward to such a change of law? It is really about the financial sustainability of their situation. We're talking about one and a half millionzzp'ers!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u56	That is one aspect of the whole issue surrounding thezzp file. The cabinet has not yet given birth to a complete piece, but not because we have a bit of a fuss about it. There's no fuss left. I'm gonna say this again, otherwise it's gonna be exciting for the news show in the bleachers. It's just complicated, technically complicated. It's gonna take some time. All these aspects are part of that discussion. Part of this is also referred to in the coalition agreement. In part, we agree and, in part, we will not agree on it, because there are also a number of political choices in it. Anyway, I find it difficult to answer partial questions now about the direction in which the discussion is going when we are not yet finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u57	Mrs. Strik, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u58	This is something that has been high on the agenda for many years, including the social partners. We get letters, but this really needs legislation. The agreement agrees to that, too. My question is a little bit when we can expect a legislative change to actually come to us to settle this. I really think there is a need for urgency. The cabinet doesn't have that much time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u59	Well, we've got three more years to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u60	Without threatening to speak, but I mean...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u61	We've got about three years left to rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u62	Time goes fast and a change of law also takes her time. Hence the question of when we can expect something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u63	As soon as possible. I am not going to set a date, because underneath it lies the complexity of a number of things that we want in the coalition agreement, for which I believe there is also a broad public support: the question of how to counteract false self-employment, how to make it easy for the realzzp'ers to be azzp'er and how to ensure a justified level of legal certainty about your position. Of course, the aspects you mention also play a role to a greater or lesser extent, but let me not react to a part without having been able to decide on the total. Moreover, the labour market bill in balance is really a big bill that affects the whole of the further labour market when it comes to the balance between flex and solid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u64	Mrs. Sent. After your interruption, I would like to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to make progress in his speech. I would ask you all to refrain from interrupting for some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u65	Delicious!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u66	I'm a little surprised. The Prime Minister started this block by saying that this cabinet is a reform cabinet. We asked for urgent problems to be addressed in the labour market, such as the imbalance between permanent workers andzzp'ers. As Mrs Strik said, only 20% of the employees have disability insurance and 25% do not save for a pension. These are urgent problems, which also make it more difficult to maintain the funding of the welfare state. I would like to feel a little more urgency in order to be convinced that this is a reform cabinet. For the moment, I'm not convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u67	The faint answer would be that the previous cabinet, which was there for five years, has not solved this, while this cabinet has only been there for a year. But that's the lame answer. The real answer is it's complicated. That's what we knew last time. You have European law issues and not everything you want can be done immediately. It has to be really sustainable. But I agree with you. It is not that we sit back in the sun and think: well, let's take another month. It's going through a hell of a lot of work. There are two aspects to it, as far as I am concerned. One is the wholezzp file. The other is the balance in the labour market as a whole. On that point, we are really right before sending a legislative proposal to Parliament. That's a big bill, really one of the major reforms that this cabinet is implementing. We're very close to that now. Mr. Chairman. There was another question about the salary. We all agree that a decent salary is relevant and very important. It is also important to achieve the necessary balance in the labour market in this respect. In December 2017, in a letter from Wouter Koolmees, the Minister for Social Affairs, it was already concluded that a well-functioning labour market is best achieved by conducting the discussion, including from the various sub-topics. The question was: shouldn't there be a wide-ranging social agreement from Wassenaar? I understand the romance of that. It worked insane back then. The previous cabinet also concluded a comprehensive social agreement in 2013. I sincerely believe that the answer is not there now. You have to make such a social agreement across the board when the time is right and when the issues make it necessary. Wouter Koolmees and the cabinet are now talking about pensions and, of course, about all kinds of other dossiers, such as the Disease Act, the WIA et cetera, without necessarily trying to make that a sort of big comprehensive thing. At the moment, I think that it would all fall apart because of the weight of the matter and that it would be better to do it in partial agreements. A question has also been asked about the employment rate of people. Let me make the following distinction. On the one hand, you have the broad approach to ensuring that people get a job, which also reduces the increasingly tight labour market. We have already discussed this in the context of investment in health and education. It is also about making work attractive. This also has to do with matching between employers and job seekers, including in the different regions, and with investing in personal services to job seekers, accompanying those groups, including 55-plussers and people with a migration background, who sometimes need extra attention. That includes education. This includes the idea that lifelong learning is also a real lifelong learning and not just a fine title of a report. On the other hand, there is the issue of people with disabilities. Secretary of State Tamara van Ark has launched a broad offensive to help them to work in larger numbers, to make it more attractive and easier to hire those people and to make it more attractive for those people themselves to work or to work more. That also fits in with the kind of society that we, I think, have in mind widely in this Chamber: everyone, young or old and with or without a labour restriction, is equally valuable and everyone wants to give you a chance to participate fully in this society. We are very motivated for that as a cabinet. I know that this is widely supported. The debate on the heavy professions has also been going on for a long time. This has been discussed endlessly with the social partners. In fact, we have to conclude with each other that it's just not possible to establish. This is also a task, I think, but also the cabinet, of the social partners themselves. It is therefore also a task of employers, perhaps more so than of employees. The employers cannot say: I have had this man or woman on shift for so many years now, but now it is gone, do me another. No, when looking at how to implement labour market policy and your employer role in your company, you should also look at how to retrain people to a different type of work or to get them out of the shifts and how to make them work properly up to their 66th or 67th. I don't think we should give in to that too quickly. In the government agreement, it was agreed that the cabinet would also contribute to this by removing obstacles, for example in the area of part-time pensions and with generation pact schemes. We will also do so in the context of the broader set of agreements on the provision of old age. Mr. Chairman. That brings me the purchasing power. This is, of course, also an extension of the labour market. I have just said something about this in the context of salaries. A number of questions have been asked. Let me first say that the good news is that 96% of Dutch households are expected to improve purchasing power next year. Those are really numbers we haven't seen in a very long time. In addition, you have to look very carefully at how to reach all groups. Of course, for people who do not pay income tax, you cannot improve the net income position with a further reduction. You're gonna have to do other things for that. That is why we are also ensuring, in addition to reducing the burden, that we increase family allowances, childcare allowances and the care allowance for couples. This also means that in full width Dutch people will improve from 1 January. Mr Schalk asked a question about the single-earners, who are under pressure. He referred to the report of the Central Planning Bureau, particularly the first two sentences of its summary. A few things about that, and there's a paradox in that. First of all, the policy of the cabinet is based on the fact that a earner fully benefits from it. You see in the purchasing power figures for one earner this year that they are better off than other groups. The flatter rate in the two-tier system also brings more balance to the tax treatment of the single and the two-tiered. In the end, it doesn't matter whether the family income is earned by one or by two persons. The single-earners also benefit from raising the phasing-out limit in the child-related budget for couples and increasing the care allowance for couples. At the same time, a while ago, the basic choice was made to look at the capacity of income tax at individual level. This is a policy choice made by a number of Cabinets ago. We want to stick to that, because that also encourages us to make a choice to go to work or to work more. And in terms of income support and specific costs, for example in the care of children, we look precisely at the capacity of the household as a whole. So we try to do this as a cabinet, and that's not easy. This has been discussed for a long time in the formation. It's also technically complicated. But I think we've found a balance. On the one hand, we want to stick to the basic choice of looking at the carrying capacity at the individual level. At the same time, by turning on a number of buttons I have just mentioned, we have succeeded in achieving as well as possible the single-earners, in a way that does not harm the main objective. As a result, if two people earn the income, they both mainly benefit from the tax rebates. This also means that work really pays more. We don't want to let go of that goal. But at the same time, that was also the 2017 Schalk motion, a number of improvement proposals from the investigation that was made on the basis of that motion are also included in the coalition agreement. For example, the hard income limit in the rent allowance is abolished and the design of the labour discount is adjusted. Those were the proposals that emerged from that report. If you really do what the SGP wants, then you should come back to that more fundamental choice of looking at the income tax at the individual level. We wouldn't want to make that choice. But I do think that we can now deal with it in a proper way with a mix of measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u68	I agree with the Prime Minister that a whole mix of measures has been put in place to ensure that purchasing power is at least equal to that of two-earners. That is what has been achieved in the end. By the way, the figures recently showed that they were still disappointing in the past period: they finally reached -0.3% instead of a plus. Anyway, I think that was discussed in the House of Representatives. The Prime Minister is right to point out that a number of years ago a choice was made, but choices have already been made that had to be reconsidered at some point. Are you sure you don't see any way of looking at that again? Otherwise, you will be left with a huge gap, and I admit that the purchasing power is going to run out right now. But the gap remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u69	That is the choice we made at the time, and we also said in the formation that this coalition wants to stick to it. At the same time, we want to see what we can do to ensure that you are indeed getting a more equal rise in increasing prosperity, and do not allow the gap to become unnecessarily large. I believe that this measure will do the same. But Mr Schalk actually admits it by implication: if you really want to solve it, you have to reverse that choice. However, reversing that choice has an effect on emancipation and on the choice to work, and I think that we are reaching a different conclusion from our different beliefs on that point. If the SGP were to rule alone, such a measure would be immediately reversed, I think, and the Cabinet does not do so for a number of reasons. However, the beauty of politics in the Netherlands is that you can now see that there is a more equal development of purchasing power, thanks to Mr Schalk's motion and the choices made in the report as we have shaped them in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u70	Should the SGP rule alone...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u71	Finally, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u72	Certainly, Madam President. Should the SGP rule alone, I would always discuss with the VVD whether it was a good measure, but that aside. Maintaining this decision a few years ago may be politically true, but recently there was also a report in which people say "we like it so much." There is no longer an explosive growth of people who are going back into the labour market. So let us also listen to society in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u73	Of course. As a liberal, I also think that people should make that choice themselves, and Mr Schalk and I will find each other again, because there is more that binds the SGP and the VVD than separates. The system as we had was not based on the person but on the family, and that system had built a huge disincentive in it to make that choice the other way. It is, of course, the case that the employment rate has increased: that people have gone to work more hours, and that more people have gone to work. I also see a lot of guys in my own environment who have gone to work less and women who have gone to work more. It's all great choices. At family level, I say, let a thousand flowers bloom, but try to do it in a way that the tax system does not, as it were, favour a particular choice very much. That is why we have chosen not to reverse this, although I recognise that growth is now falling somewhat. But he has been there, so the policy has been successful in that sense. The fact that more people have started working has, of course, also contributed to the prosperity in the Netherlands. But I know that we may consider the desirability of doing so slightly differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u74	Now I would like to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to make some progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u75	Yes. There is a good opportunity coming up, because Mr Nagel cannot react now, so that is very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u76	Then he responds to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u77	In 2019, purchasing power development will improve 97% of pensioners, with a media purchasing power development of plus 1.5%. The purchasing power of pensioners is, of course, still influenced by the non-indexation of pensions. This applies not only to pensioners, but also to all workers, because they also have ordinary pension structures that are not indexed in many cases. So that affects the entire population. You don't feel that in your wallet right now, but you're gonna end up on a lower pension the moment you're gonna enjoy it. This, of course, has everything to do with the state of the pension funds. That is not a matter for the government, but that really is a matter for employers and employees. Then I'll be on the BES Islands, Mr. Chairman. That's what I thought was discussed in this room. In short, we actually do two things. On 1 January, benefits and the statutory minimum wage will increase by 5% and family allowances and allowances will be increased for people who live independently in the underprivileged. In the progress report for the summer of 2019, which is based on the Van der Graaf motion from the House of Representatives, both Chambers are informed according to that motion about the steps to be taken to establish a standard for the social minimum. This is because reality is still so in motion that it does not make sense now or honestly to the people to do so. That benchmark can still change. I also know, however, that there are different views on this, given the discussions between the leaders responsible and some of them, or perhaps even a majority in this Chamber. I'm gonna have to live with that. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Brinkman's question about a measurable objective to help save 100,000, 200,000 or even 300,000 poor children. This has to do with the policy of this cabinet to reduce poverty. State Secretary Tamara van Ark van SZW is also working on this. She has also written a cabinet response to the SER opinion Growing up without poverty and to the report of the Kinderombudsman All children have a chance. She reported that SCP, CPB and the Central Bureau of Statistics were asked to investigate the possibility of achieving a clear poverty indicator, which would be useful for a possible reduction target. Once that reconnaissance is in place, the cabinet will consult with the VNG to see how we are shaping such an objective. The question is then whether we can do that, and how we can do that. We will then inform the Chamber at the beginning of next year. This does not alter the fact that, at the moment, we are adding 100 million more annually to the fight against child poverty from 2017 onwards, of which 85 million through the municipalities. For the strengthening of municipal poverty and debt policies, the cabinet has also made a total of 80 million extra available for the years 2018, 2019 and 2020. So it's being worked out incredibly hard. By the way, the Segers motion has been tabled in the House of Representatives to release 25 million extra in 2018 to support vulnerable people, and I have also made up for my faint remark about U2. We have a shared goal, which is to prevent children from growing up in poverty and to reduce it as much as possible. However, we cannot yet set an objective. We really have to wait and see these reports, but we hope to be able to report on them at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u78	I would like to give Mr Kox an exceptional opportunity for an interruption because it is a Parliamentary motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u79	It is a Chamberwide, with the exception of the PVV, adopted motion, following a motion that we adopted here also almost Chamberwide in March 2016. Then came the SER report. In last year's General Reviews, many parties said that there really should be a reduction target. And now we're a year ahead and the Prime Minister says the cabinet is working hard on it. I believe so, but here you really have to deliver more than say: 'Well, wait', especially if you say before that that you will be returning to the motion on the BES islands in the summer. That is also a motion that was adopted here in 2016. I believe, Madam President, that this Chamber should also stand for the statements we are making here. We do not take many motions here, so I want the Prime Minister's approach to be more urgent. We've been on the road for over a year and a half. It was 2016, 2017 and now it's 2018. It is now really time to act and the Prime Minister cannot say: wait for our good deeds, starting next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u80	That's what I care about. I'm gonna walk by them, not in defense, but to explain what we're doing. In the case of the BES scheme, therefore, the social minimum and the assistance scheme is intended to reduce the observed gap between income and benefits and the cost of living. That's why you need to be able to set a social minimum. By using both the cost side and the revenue side, we are now taking an important first step. But it is true that this is still in full swing and that you cannot establish this honestly now. That is why we need that progress report to inform the Chamber, in accordance with that Van der Graaf motion, of how quickly we can establish such a social minimum. It's just not technically possible right now. With regard to the reduction target for poverty, we immediately responded to that ESC opinion, but also that this ESC opinion is not conclusive. In fact, that requires that these different planning agencies now carry out this research in order to arrive at that unambiguous indicator. The ESC opinion is, of course, a major one. But on the basis of that ESC opinion, you can't determine it yet. So we can try to get those reports faster. We'll do that as soon as we can. I know from Tamara of Ark that she is very concerned about this, and we all do, but it is not true that this has been deliberately delayed. However, the ESC opinion itself did not provide sufficient basis for setting that reduction target. That calls for some additional research. Sometimes it does.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u81	You've had a year!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u82	Well, to that SER opinion has been responded. On this basis, the various planning agencies have been asked to carry out research. So we're trying to do it as fast as we can. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the 50PLUS initiative law for a temporary soil interest rate of 2%. We do not want to choose for this, because this would lead to a substantial redistribution between groups. We have to be careful not to bury Italian and spend money now so that later generations don't have it anymore. Mr. Chairman. From the Socialist Party there was the question about the OECD and the wealth inequality, which would be greater in the Netherlands than in other countries. It's hard to compare wealth inequality. Think, for example, of all the differences between pension systems and pension assets between countries. We have one of the most extensive pension systems and social security systems in the world. This, of course, has an effect on what individuals ultimately experience in saving behaviour, and that in turn affects the distribution of assets. I therefore think that we should be very careful when connecting major conclusions or policy implications to this particular statistics. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nagel of 50PLUS asked a question about the relocation of large pension funds abroad. He also asked for an overview of this. The Minister for Social Affairs discussed this in the Lower House of the IORP II. There are also questions from the Dutch MP Omtzigt about answered. It's not very common. Between 2016 and October 2018, there was five cross-border collective value transfer. It amounted to 4.3 billion in assets under management on a total pension assets of 1,400 billion. We cannot disclose the names of these companies because of the privacy sensitivity; we cannot give them. Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about the AOW and the holiday money. This point of 50PLUS is very technical. The AOW is linked to the net minimum wage including holiday money. So there is no pickpocketing here. AOW'ers get a higher monthly allowance but less holiday money. That's for technical reasons. It does not lead to a deficit for them under the line. The proposal of 50PLUS therefore does not lead to a higher AOW on balance either. It would reduce the monthly allowance and increase the holiday allowance. That brings me, Mr President, as a matter of course to the subject of climate. One of the first questions, by Mrs Jorritsma of the VVD, was what the expected results are at present, with their timing. It is well known that on 10 July the proposals were presented for the main lines of the climate agreement. I think it is a great achievement that this has been achieved. On 28 September the analyses of the planning agencies came. On 5 October we came with our appreciation. That's been the whistle signal for the second round. It is finished when it is finished, but we have asked the tables to come up with the detailed proposals on 1 December, so that we keep the pace high. Those proposals will be re-examined. On this basis, the political balance of the cabinet will take place, with quality above speed. You know that we are aiming for a 49% target. That's what we're going to book on right now. The common goal of the cabinet in Europe is 55%. They're lobbying hard for that. We're working on that behind the scenes, but that goes with pluses and minuses of course. The question of the VVD was also how to weigh the issue of support. How do you make sure it's viable enough? I think that the organisation of the climate agreement really fits in with how we deal with this kind of thing in the Netherlands. We talk about it widely in society, with citizens, businesses and fellow governments. Participation in the climate tables also involves all interest groups. Very deeply in the genes of everyone working on it, there is the conviction that this should eventually be done with broad support. Society must be taken on board in a broad sense. We're not gonna make the transition in a few years. We really have as much time as society for that. It must also be done in a balanced way. Mrs Jorritsma also asked how this works with migration. I'm here to talk about migration separately. I have already mentioned in my introductory remarks something about migration, how it can be part of discontent in society and how this cabinet, and indeed the previous cabinet, is trying to overcome these concerns by limiting the influx and promoting the transfer of values and integration, and thereby working towards acceptance. Moreover, I believe that this is still high in the Netherlands for the reception of genuine refugees, provided that the numbers remain manageable. Then there is the question of whether the cabinet should not be more active in steering. I think that as a coalition we have now said very precisely: these are the sectoral objectives and these are the financial framework conditions. In the appreciation of 5 October on the broad lines of the climate agreement, we also said very precisely by sector what we expect from all these tables. The cabinet supports the proposal on the broad lines on a very large number of points, but also gives its own direction at the tables on a number of points. It's their move now. The Empire is there, I say to Mr Engels. The Empire therefore participates in the discussions. A balanced mix of instruments is therefore also important. We do not rule out measures in advance as long as they are not contrary to the coalition agreement. We will very quickly come to a further appreciation and decision-making when those documents are available. So I think we have the right mix of support from the tables and direction from the coalition. I see Mrs Strik walking towards the interrupting microphone, and that is another moment when I think: she answered me. I would have liked to say that Mrs Strik asked whether we were not looking like a rabbit in the headlights. That's the question she wanted to give me a second bike ride. Let me get ahead of her. "Why do the coalition parties not show leadership here and are they actually so united in their green ambitions?', were her words in the first term. I honestly believe that these coalition parties show from very different angles that they agree on this. This is necessary to ensure that the world does not perish from further warming. In doing so, the Netherlands makes its contribution. We also see huge economic opportunities, I say again as VVD's, because it leads to a lot of innovation opportunities in the world. So this knife cuts from all sides. We also very quickly agreed on this in the formation, even after the GroenLinks cancellation, with which we had already come this far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u83	That is very reassuring, but so far we do not really see it fully reflected in the measures that have been taken. Of course quality goes beyond time. At the same time, we are reminded on all sides of the urgency of time. I did have questions about political leadership. Hence the next question. You sent the people back to the tables and said: I want the results before 1 December. But what if they don't come out on certain points? After all, it is not entirely inconceivable that they cannot give you the complete arrangement on which you simply have to put a stamp. Are you going to come up with concrete measures soon after 1 December, so are you going to make the assessment? Or is there a third round planned for them to start talking again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u84	It's not foreseen. What is foreseen is that, on the basis of what they are now coming up with and the transfer of the planning agencies themselves, we must take the political decision. That's why we're at the table now. We are much more involved in the second round than in the first round. This also fits in with the construction of this approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u85	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u86	It will be very exciting what will be decided after 1 December. Will these choices include an understanding of how these measures lead to a proportionate sharing of burdens between citizens, as well as between businesses and citizens? And is there any prospect or preparation for potentially higher reduction targets in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u87	We are, of course, trying to do it as cost-effectively as possible. That's leading, to keep the choice of this transition affordable as well. The proposals must also fit into the financial and budgetary frameworks. They leave room for it, too. Of course, you can only spend the money once, but I think that space is there. Macro-wise, we should therefore be able to bear the burden of this transition as a country. Macro is one side, but we also need to look very closely at the income effects at micro level. So you have to prevent people from getting the feeling that their household wallet is going to be heavily influenced by this, because then you will lose your support. At the same time: when companies leave the Netherlands, jobs disappear while CO emissions continue elsewhere. So you have to do it all in a little smart way. I do notice that in that sense the polder, the climate polder, is working again, but this is a different polder than the SER polder. You've got everyone together at the table, every now and then it pops, there's a fight and there's someone in the paper who says, "We're gonna run away," which fortunately doesn't happen. You notice that everyone is aware that there are parameters, that the macro should be affordable, that the micro should not lead to a loss of acceptance and that you should do it as cost-effectively as possible. Then you finally budget it on that 49%. What we want, of course, is that Europe ultimately goes to 55%. So there should be another plus on it. That lobby is running, but it is not very successful, in the sense that we are a leading group in Europe with the French and Sweden who want to do so, plus a number of countries that participate, but the Germans, for example, are very open about not wanting to do so. They are, of course, dealing with the Atomausstieg and the reopening of brown and coal power stations. They have a number of very specific problems at the moment. So that discussion is still ongoing. For example, tomorrow we will have another meeting with the most concerned ministers on this lobby and on how we can best shape it, both in Europe and worldwide. Mrs Kaag is all over the world aligning me and the other rulers are, of course, also involved in this, however we can also ensure that the Paris objective is maintained in the world. In all the international talks, as with the Chinese Prime Minister a few weeks ago, and in all my discussions in the margins of the ASEM Summit, this is on the agenda. Climate is very important to us. I also really think that the Netherlands is now seen as one of the most progressive countries in the fight against global warming. Then I guess I did answer some of the questions at implication. Following Mr Kox's remark, I can say that we have given a number of clear orders to ensure that the polluter pays more. Mr Kox specifically asked about this. We are sticking to a minimum CO price in the electricity sector, we are calling on the industry to design a similar system as a stick behind the door, and the Minister of EZK has made it clear that an industrial appeal to public funds worth EUR 1 billion is not on the table. The cabinet will stimulate the transition in industry to some extent with public funds, but an important part will really have to come from the companies themselves. We also need to look at the world around us, because there is no point in companies moving away and then polluting somewhere else. We must therefore ensure that this is designed in a smart way. Mr Ten Hoeve asked the question: if the polluter has to pay, then taxation is the most obvious option to make that payment. Price policy, for example by increasing the burden on unwanted and/or polluting activities, is indeed an effective instrument if there are opportunities for action for the citizens and businesses affected. If it is only a burden increase without you being able to change your behavior, then it is purely what it is: a burden increase. So in the case of pricing policy, it is also important to look at the income effects of the policy, and then, of course, specifically for the vulnerable groups. In some cases, transaction costs are so high that pricing policy is not efficient. Sometimes a ban is a better option than a ban. So we have to play the whole organ, so to speak. But I agree with Mr Ten Hoeve that this is an important instrument. And even if you forbid something, you have to give parties the chance to adapt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u88	Let's talk about the pollution. Do I understand that we are going to close our clean coal plants and then introduce electricity from lignite plants from Germany? 'Cause that's what's gonna happen now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u89	That, of course, is not what you want; that does not seem to me to make much sense. I've often said you can't build walls in the air that stop the CO pollution. So you have to make sure you do it all as smart as you can. This is partly by working with the incorporation of biofuels, partly by closing a coal power station if it is possible. Then, of course, you try to organize it in Europe, as well as with the procurement, that if you needed it, then of course that does not lead to the stimulation of polluting behaviour elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u90	Mrs Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u91	The Prime Minister says you don't want to. But we'll do it. That's weird, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u92	The policy is, of course, aimed at not doing so. Then Mr Koffeman's question is whether I can indicate whether the cabinet is prepared to have all the externalities of consumer goods analysed in order to actually make the polluter pay for what he is doing. That is an impossible task, if I already knew what externalities are. But the answer here is, of course, I do have a hunch what it means to say that it is an impossible task, which is disproportionate to the capacity of the government. However, the cabinet regularly looks at ways of greening the tax system. Again, tax measures are not always the ideal instrument for preventing undesirable effects of consumption, as I mentioned in my reply to Mr Ten Hoeve's question. Fiscal schemes, aimed at reducing undesirable effects, also make the tax system more complex. This does not always outweigh the social damage that must be prevented. Sometimes requirements for products or production methods are more efficient than pricing. In environmental policy, we have a long tradition of moving standards, always looking for an optimal balance between different types of instruments and the balancing of the costs and benefits of public interventions. Anyway, I'm gonna repeat myself a little bit. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to migration and integration. To begin with, and also to begin with, with Mr Brinkman's question: what we want as a cabinet, as a coalition, is an en-en policy. You want to make sure that the flow of mostly economic migrants from Africa no longer crosses the sea with those life-threatening boats. This means that we are trying to pursue Turkey-like agreements with African countries. Economic migrants are returned from these countries. The real refugees remain in those countries, where, as Europe, you are prepared to relieve the pressure on the camps through resolution programmes and to transfer the people to Europe, but not through those boats, and in numbers that are much more manageable than they are at present. In Europe itself, as long as there is no such thing, you must ensure proper registration. That's not happening right now. This is particularly important in the frontline states, such as Italy and Spain. Next, it is important that the pressure not only reaches Sweden, Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium, but also other countries are prepared to shoulder their responsibilities. Is this gonna be okay? No, it's very mediocre. Is there a crisis now? No, because the numbers are low. At least the latter depends on how you look at it. The numbers are low in terms of the number of crossings. If you compare that to a few years ago, it's really a lot lower. If you look at the secondary migration that goes on to the Netherlands, Germany and Sweden at the same time, those numbers are still significant, but fortunately much lower than in the 2015 and 2016 crisis, when the migration crisis hit us and threatened to hit out of control. That's far from it now, but you can see that's still not working out. This is because the agreements with the African countries are not sufficiently rapid, because registration is failing, especially in Italy, but also because the agreements on redistribution are not working properly in Europe itself. This actually affects a much wider issue, and I shall come back to that in the following heading: what is the situation with Europe? So, what about the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u93	As a group, we share the line indicated by the Prime Minister. I also understand that it's not all arranged with a hammer rag. But the question I was talking about is Frontex, but of course that's a bit pars pro toto too much for us, the Dutch, to do some things as well. Of course, it is understandable that in Italy the administration is not in order, but let us not talk about the other countries, but about ourselves. We have said that we want to participate in reconstruction in African countries, but this is about building a European system of enhanced border surveillance. We also understand that that's complicated. But the first answer that our cabinet, supported by Parliament, must give here, is how much reinforcement can be offered from the Netherlands. That doesn't have to be the whole Frontex thing, but that seems to me to be something that we are about to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u94	Yeah, I agree. What we had to comment on was that hard figure of 10,000. I said, "Oh, that's a little heavy, amigo." But the Netherlands supports the need to strengthen Frontex. Only our view would be that this need for additional operational and support staff should be determined demand-driven, with shared responsibility within the European Border and Coast Guard and the sovereignty of the Member States remaining paramount. We therefore agree on this point. The Netherlands is also prepared to accept its responsibility. What I, or the cabinet, responded to, is the number that suddenly fell out of the sky, namely those 10,000 extra border guards. The Netherlands must be prepared to do so, in part already in Greece, to help countries that cannot do so themselves, to control that border. The problem in countries such as Bulgaria and Romania is that this border is being properly controlled, but, unfortunately, there is often corruption, which means that people still cross that border for payment. You have to solve all these problems. The Netherlands is very positive about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u95	The Prime Minister may assume from me that I have also been somewhat focused on the complications that exist. My point is a little bit that we do not have to say in advance 10,000 customs officers, military officers or what you want to call them, we do not have to say in advance that we do not have them ready in an instant either, but that we do not have to remain in a huge abstract discussion about whether or not to transfer sovereignty, because that does not get us anywhere. There are more things, but my point is: let's not run from one abstraction to the next. It's just the administrative handiwork.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u96	I very much agree with that. That's just pragmatic, even though this is one of the few things you can probably agree on within a reasonable period of time. I'm also looking at Harbers, the Secretary of State concerned, when you look at how complicated it is to agree on, for example, redistribution. Mr. Chairman. The Marrakesh migration agreement is not a legally binding document. It explicitly confirms the sovereignty of Member States, so it adds no obligations to national and international rules to which the Netherlands adheres. Nor does the agreement aim to promote migration from south to north. Nor does it say that there should be more migration, but that it should be managed better. What is it? It is a framework of principles that has been established for the first time in order to achieve international cooperation, including outside Europe, in the field of migration and to promote such cooperation. This is the result of a 2016 UN summit. The Chamber was informed of that at the time. This is fully in line with this cabinet's migration policy. It anchors the theme "migration" within the UN system. That's a good thing. It means that we can talk to our partners, the countries of origin and the transition countries. We can address them on their responsibilities. On the issue of Africa, we are not just trying to make Turkey-like agreements with the countries on the Mediterranean coast. You also have to make agreements with the countries much deeper in Africa. I was in Mali, Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana last November. Stef Blok is currently travelling in that region. You also want to make agreements with countries deeper in Africa, so that they are willing to take back people from the frontline states who come from those countries. Then a UN treaty like that will help us. That is why we are prepared to support this policy, as are the other Member States within and outside the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u97	I understand the Prime Minister just wants to sign the agreement. In fact, he's gonna hand us over. It is certain that it will certainly entail obligations. Migration is going to become a human right and human rights will initially apply to the whole of Africa. Then all these Africans can just get into Europe. The Treaty also states that the objectives must be implemented in our policies. If it's going to be a policy and some African is going to sue it, the judge will certainly take the treaty into account in his judgment. So it does have consequences. The Prime Minister is blinking a bit and saying that we are going to bring it to UN level, that it is very positive and that we can still talk about it, but that is precisely where the problem lies. The problem is that it's being lifted to global level. The U.N.'s gonna call the shots. It is, in fact, just like the European Union: certain policies are brought to European level. That is what is now going to happen with the migration problem. This will be brought to UN level. You know as well as I do, because you are an educated man; you know precisely that the Netherlands really does not have any voice at the global level at the UN. In fact, the gates just open, initially for a billion Africans. And the African population is going to grow to 4 billion. And then we're not there yet, because then... You can laugh about it, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u98	I'm not laughing. I had eye contact with someone else about something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u99	I can tell you that in a few years we won't be laughing at all here anymore, because first it's Africa, but then it's going to be West and Central Asia. There are several processes in progress. We've got the Rabat trial, we've got the Budapest trial...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u100	Can you come to your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u101	Yes, I would like to ask whether I understand correctly that the Prime Minister is simply going to extradite the Netherlands to the whole of Africa, that we are simply being overrun here and that migration becomes a human right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u102	No. The answer is no. Then I come to the question about... I see Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst gestures, but the answer is no. She asked me a closed question, which I can answer yes or no, and it was no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u103	How can you take responsibility...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u104	Mrs Faber, I'll let you finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u105	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I was a little too fast. How can you take it on your conscience that... You are the Prime Minister of the Netherlands. You should be here in front of all the Dutch, but you just deliver us. How can you sleep peacefully tonight with the idea that this agreement will be signed on 11 and 12 December? That will probably be done by Secretary of State Harbers, who will be sent out to do the job for you. How can you sleep with that idea tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u106	The question of how I can sleep quietly tonight is one of Mrs Faber's views on what this agreement means, and that is not true. If it were true, I'd sleep restless, yes, but it doesn't add up. I also spoke about it in the House of Representatives, so perhaps in addition to what I just said: it is about cooperation on forced return, about saving lives at sea, about the evacuation of persons and better border management to combat illegal migration, about tackling smuggling and trafficking in human beings. These are all things that I have heard the PVV argue for for many years, so I was actually counting on Mrs Faber's support. Well, I don't get it, but she's turning it into some huge doom thing, which it's not. That may be, but the answer to the first question remains no. The answer to the second question is that I can sleep well, because I don't share her analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u107	Mrs Faber, I have now twice given you the opportunity to ask a question. You may ask a very small, very short question just this once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u108	Thank you, Mr President, because it is about something. A migrant who, after the agreement has been signed, reports to the Dutch border, is therefore not entitled to basic services such as education, health care and a benefit and therefore cannot take his benefit or pension with him to the home country?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u109	It is not a legally binding document, it is not a document that affects sovereignty, it is not a document that adds obligations to the national and international rules that the Netherlands must abide by. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but that's just not right. Then there was a question from Mrs Strik about solidarity. I think I just answered it in the interrupting debate. That is indeed not the way we want it to be. Mrs Faber had another question about... Well, there were a lot of innuendo in there, which I'm not going to repeat, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u110	Mrs. Strik also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u111	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but this was a little too fast for me. I understand the Prime Minister thinks he's already answered my question, but I don't remember that. My question was about solidarity in the area of the redistribution of asylum seekers, both within the European Union and at international level. I haven't heard any strategy from the Prime Minister. How is he going to ensure that there is more solidarity within the EU? And how are we going to promote solidarity at UN level, at global level, for example through more resettlement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u112	We are a country that is pretty much at the top of the statistics when it comes to relocation and resettlement. I think that's decent, too. Especially if the total numbers are manageable, I think we should do so, but it is not working in Europe, because Eastern Europe simply refuses to cooperate with solidarity in relocating. Then there's such a thought: but what if we pay? Yeah, hello, the problem isn't that we can't afford it, the problem is that our society can't absorb all the refugees. We're all gonna have to do that. In many cases we also like to see shelter in Africa and what has been done with Turkey: that you allow manageable numbers to come. Anyway, Africa's not gonna be able to do that yet. They don't. Then you get the question: how can you put pressure on them? A route that will then be explored is to look at the money they get from Europe, but yes, these are all unanimous decisions. You may threaten to reduce the amount of money from the Structural and Cohesion Funds, but decisions of this kind almost always have to be taken unanimously. I have told them: if this does not work and if the pressure remains as it is, the effect of this will inevitably be to reduce Schengen. At some point, that's gonna happen, of course. Because being a member of Schengen and the Schengen area also includes this solidarity. That's a real effect. Well, that's not gonna happen tomorrow either, but it's something you're already seeing happening. In fact, Schengen is no longer working between France and Italy. It does function in the air, but not by land. Schengen does not actually work between Austria and Italy, but it certainly does not work between France and Italy. In that respect, you can see that these effects are now beginning to fade away. This will, of course, have further consequences at some point, including for the countries of Eastern Europe. That may be a consequence, but it will be there in the longer term. You can't just do that tomorrow. I also believe that we should avoid this for as long as possible. Of course, we are calling for greater international solidarity. We do that in the Security Council. We do so in the UN system and in the discussions we have on this. The world as a whole is willing to do so. I was in Canada last week. Of course, Prime Minister Trudeau has brought in impressive numbers of Syrian refugees, but things are different from here. This is where they report to the border and come in. He could of course select them extensively in advance and then get those numbers to Canada, with the greatest potential for integration. Fine, because Canada doesn't have as much risk as we do from Syria to Western Europe, so he could do that. But Canada has shown solidarity and has been prepared to absorb substantial numbers. We are, of course, trying to encourage this in the rest of the world. But that's not gonna happen tomorrow either. That goes with falling and getting up. In her first term, Mrs Faber held a whole filippica. I will not repeat it entirely, but I might be able to comment on it a few times. I don't recognize myself in the picture she sketched. The integration and integration in the Netherlands are not without problems, but certainly not hopeless. We have shown what adjustments we want to make to make integration policy a success, so that it really contributes to more effective integration, whereby people find a place much faster in this society, learn language faster, but also are aware of our values. I refer to the democratic rule of law, the equality of men and women, homosexual and heterosexual, white and black, the fact that we have a separation of church and state, freedom of expression and freedom of religion. We're all fine with where you're from. This also applies to all the views that you take with you, but these are a number of undisputed preconditions for the functioning of our society. Then you have to be clear about it. You can blame many refugees, but in the past we were often not clear about what kind of country they arrived in and what our values were. The fact that we are paying attention to this issue with this government in education is a huge gain to me. This also builds on what previous Cabinets have done. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the subject at international level. That's a pretty logical bridge. Of course, it's not a positive picture. But I see that Mrs Faber has another question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u113	I had also asked the Prime Minister about the 700,000 Syrians who had already returned home. Then the Syrians who are here in the Netherlands can also go home? If 700,000 Syrians can return, they can also return from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u114	That's like politically fixing the rate of calculation for pensions. You shouldn't. You should leave that to experts. Nor should you decide politically on the security situation in countries of origin. We do this on the basis of official reports from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They give us no reason to reconsider the status of refugees from Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u115	Mrs Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u116	I find that too easy to answer. There can be 700,000 back. They don't do that because they couldn't go back. So there's definitely a chance to go back. You don't have to be a specialist to understand that it's just possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u117	Yeah, there's as much as possible. The foreign ministry's office reports are no jokes. There are regular official reports which are said elsewhere in society: so, we are surprised that these people can go back. Then we'll do it, if we can. In this case, there's no such message. The last thing I want is for us to decide politically whether it is safe in Syria. Leave that to the experts. Of a few things, I really think we shouldn't make them political. This is one of those.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u118	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u119	I've given you two options, Mrs Faber. I've just given you a third chance. I'm sorry, but not right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u120	One quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u121	This is really the last time you're allowed three times, but after that it's only two.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u122	The chairman is strict and sometimes he should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u123	We're all dealing with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u124	Yes. Isn't it time for the Foreign Office's report to be revised? Would you like to make a big deal out of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u125	No, because I don't want any political influence on those official messages. Then I'll join international. It's becoming a bit of a cliché, but there's something going on in the world. I mention the unpredictability of what is happening in America. Because of this unpredictability, the whole post-war order as we know it is... I don't want to say she's changed, because she's not. But at least its self-evidentness has become less strong. I would also like to mention the support for multilateralism, for multilateral world organisation on the basis of a number of shared principles. Secondly, there are a number of really difficult issues within the European Union, including, of course, Brexit. We're trying to manage it. But even if it ends well, Brexit is still a bad thing, as 65 million people leave the European Union. That happens at a time when I would say: you should put the wagon more in a circle instead of weakening that circle. Of course, it leads to a weakening of the circle. I would also like to draw attention to the political developments in a number of Member States, including Italy. We have to look at how it all ends with the budget, but there are a few major issues I have already mentioned: migration, but I also mention the euro, where we cannot count on predictable reactions at the moment in Italy, at least 'predictable' in the sense of what we were used to. That makes the presence of the Netherlands... We're not small. We are still the fifth Member State in the European Union in terms of our economy. Then you have to wait 200 billion further and then you come to Belgium. So we're not that small. We're pretty unique. We're not one of the greats. You've got the big ones. Then there's Spain. Then you've got us. And then there's the rest. In that respect, I think we should try to paint on a somewhat larger canvas than we sometimes tend to do. We are one of the founding Member States, so we must also take advantage of that position. We do this very intensively by investing in our foreign capabilities. We do so financially in our posts, but we do so by simply engaging very intensively in the world. That is what all rulers do, but certainly also the rulers of foreign affairs and of defence. We're trying to get our own sources. That's just an introduction. On the basis of that introduction, I would like to make a few comments on the questions raised. Mrs Strik thinks: nice introduction, but what does that mean for your commitment in Europe? Europe was often seen as a currency and a market by many parties, including mine. But now you're really seeing a shift. Yes, Europe is certainly a currency and a market. It brings us a lot of prosperity. 70% of our exports are within Europe. We make a lot of money from that. We are in absolute euros the third exporting country in the world, after Germany and Japen, and still for China. That's just hard euros. Because we work together in Europe, we also have security. I do not mean to say that Europe has a security task, but the fact that you work together and that you are embedded in such a strong structure is also security in itself. At least in recent years this has been a shift in my own thinking, that Europe is more than market and currency. Of course it's a community of values, but working together brings security. That is certainly important in an unstable world. It is therefore separate from NATO, which, of course, has an official, formal defence mission. The fact that you work together and are embedded in that cooperation................................................................................................................ I see it as one of the most important tasks of this cabinet to ensure that cohesion is maintained within Europe and that a number of agreements we have made are also respected. If you agree on the coin that you have to keep your own pants off, you can't spend a lot of money and then say, oh, I have a problem, can you slide the rest? No, you have to do it yourself. The best shock absorption tool is just a low level of public debt, because then you can absorb shocks. Then you don't have to appeal to your colleagues. Everyone also does their own tasks in such a Union. That is why it is very important that, at the informal summit which will take place in Romania in early May next year and which will guide the agenda for the next five years, we influence this. I was in Romania at the beginning of September to talk to President Klaus Iohannis about this. We are using that summit as an opportunity to be on the agenda for the next five-year agenda of the European Union. Mr Brinkman asked what that means when you have such a new, multipolar world, because the self-evidentness of multilateralism is weakened and there are, of course, countries based on the idea of strong men who do manage things bilaterally. This is an order in which the Netherlands has no interest whatsoever, in which we do not feel at home and which is detrimental to both our trade and security interests. So we have to invest very much. That's why I talked to Trudeau in Canada last week, who's in the G7. At the ASEM summit, I had long talks with the Japanese, but also with the next ASEM president, Thailand, and that of the following year, Vietnam. Singapore is very important. A small economy: the president will be visiting soon. These are all pillars under the multilateral world order. Of course it is not black and white. It is not the case that it is now shifting from multilateral to strong men. Of course that is not true either, but you can see that some of the obvious post-war arrangements are really fundamentally under discussion. That just has consequences for our position. You can see that in all the policies we conduct. I refer to the Defence Memorandum and the Common Foreign and Security Policy. I mention the way in which Sigrid Kaag is shaping the whole of foreign trade and development cooperation policy. We are trying to maintain the international rules based system. The Human Rights Council, the WTO reforms and reforms within the UN and the Security Council, together with Côte d'Ivoire and others, have taken the initiative to modernise the whole system of international peacekeeping missions. Fortunately, there are now real meters made there. But that does require attention, of course. I would also like to say straight away that I thought Mr Brinkman's question on this matter was that the relationship with America remains vital for me. America is essential as an ally. I still cannot imagine a major global international problem that will not be resolved without the active commitment, participation, of America. The EU and the United States together still account for 50% of the world GDP. As far as I am concerned, transatlantic cooperation has been, and remains, the cornerstone of our foreign policy and our security policy. The Netherlands has always sought this anchor in active and full participation within the European Union and NATO, seeking cooperation in Europe, but also highlighting the transatlantic relationship. This will only become more important now that Brexit is taking place and the UK is leaving the European Union. That's what I notice in contacts with others. On the mainland, I am convinced that the Netherlands is the largest economy with the most multilateral transatlantic orientation of all countries on the European continent. So we are being looked at in that regard. So we need to use that relationship and put a lot of energy into it. We will. Then it is important that as a country you can show that we do our tasks and keep our commitments. We should not be unnecessarily obstructed within Europe, but if we really find something, then we find something and then we are bothered. But you have to be predictable about that, too. This does indeed mean taking initiatives, as Karel van Oosterom is now doing as an ambassador to the UN Security Council, with the support of the whole cabinet, for example, in the field I mentioned of the modernisation of peacekeeping operations. But there are also many other things, for example, as chairman of the North Korea Sanctions Committee and jobs that we do. It's appreciated. It's being seen. And because you do, you also have opportunities to exert influence in other areas. It's not all: I'm doing something here and I have a result there. It works from a convincing vision that we have of how that international order should be. The last thing we need to do is to cry in the corner that some of the obviouss are under discussion. I think we are the last to worry here as politicians. Our job must be to turn those concerns into action. This action will then be: use our position to act internationally. Mr Kuiper is, of course, right to say that there are a number of instruments at our service. He mentioned the sustainable development goals. They're working hard on that. They also provide a guideline for us at national level. That requires an innovative approach. There are 17 of them, because yes, they are often a few watery compromises, there is no other way. That is the downside of multilateralism. So it's going to be 17. According to the Court of Auditors, the Dutch government has taken up this implementation well. We're flying that wide. Nationally the necessary takes place on subjects where the Netherlands faces a challenge. The circular economy, for example, fits into the whole climate policy. I also mention renewable energy. New policies and new legislation always take structural account of the whole perspective of the SDGs. Perhaps another example of how that works: climate mitigation and climate adaptation. It was Cora van Nieuwenhuizen and others in the cabinet who took the initiative with Ban Ki-moon and Bill Gates. Of course, we always need an actor, so we had Leonardo di Caprio. I have his signature, but well, without madness: what you want is to try to put the Dutch position on the basis of a number of things where we have international standing, that is besides food and agriculture also water and how you deal with it internationally. So you can see that such an initiative once again works insanely well to put the country into the world as a contribution to these kinds of issues. So that's what we're doing. It's all Ultimately, the aim is to ensure that we go back to our core tasks. We, as politicians, must ensure a strong economy and a safe world. I am absolutely convinced that promoting multilateralism is essential for both our objectives as politicians for our people and for what is expected of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u126	I visited the UN last week with the parliamentary delegation. At that time, I also noticed how important this is for our country and also for the Dutch mission to the United Nations. These development goals are actually mentioned and introduced by us everywhere. The reason I brought it up today also had to do with the "reaction effects" on our own policy development every year. My question was linked to this question as to whether this could also play a role in a reflection on the part of the cabinet around the Millions Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u127	Yes, you asked that question. I shall come back to that in second place. The SDGs are, in any case, structurally integrated into new policies and into legislation. We are also in the process of adapting the current balancing framework to the SDGs. When it comes to policy coherence, where the SDGs are an important angle, we are truly leading international. The House of Representatives is already informed about this and discussions are taking place on these initiatives, for example following the annual report on the implementation of the SDGs. So your thought of allowing the WRR to reflect on that, I do not see any urgent reason for that at the moment. But it is true: you also had the question about the role in the budgetary cycle. Let me take a look at the AZ official: give me a hand for the second term. Thank you. We'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u128	If it's as you describe, I'm very happy about that. I think it is an extremely important tool to be well focused on policy development, for the longer term. It will of course come back every year on Wednesday meatloaf day in Lower House. Then, of course, it's about accountability, but it would also be nice if the preview became a permanent part, every year around Prinsjesdag and the Millions Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u129	The Minister of BuHa-OS coordinates that, so I could imagine that this in her budget... But I'm gonna go check it out. 'Cause now I'm gonna improvise, but we're gonna answer it robustly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u130	I would like to stress Mr Kuiper's need to have a broader discussion when we have the General Political Reviews and not to limit them to the economic but to involve social and environmental aspects in a broader perspective. An alternative is also to ask the Cabinet to respond to the reflections that the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau and the Planning Office for the Environment are now issuing in parallel with the Macro Economic Recognition. I wonder to what extent the Prime Minister is prepared to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u131	Is that what they're saying about the SDGs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u132	Not about the SDGs, but the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau and the Planning Office for the Environment invite us to use a broader perspective than the economic one, as shown in the Macro Economic Recognition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u133	I shall come back to that in the second term. That doesn't ring a bell. Of course, I know all the reports from these planning agencies and I think we are reacting by default to everything they produce. I shall come back to that in second term. We're not doing it by default anymore, I hear. Ah, we're not doing it by default anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u134	Then my question is whether the Cabinet is prepared to respond to those reconnaissances published around Princess Day in such a way that we can take that reaction from the Cabinet into our General Political Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u135	I'm gonna go check it out. What assists me is that these plans came and that we then reacted to them, with often even thicker reactions than the original plan. You can, of course, say as well as politically: let us involve these reports in the parliamentary debates, without the cabinet reacting again to a reaction. You just keep stacking paper, then. I thought that was it, but I'd like to double-check it. Then there was the question of nuclear weapons, which is why the treaty against nuclear weapons cannot be signed. We don't do that for different reasons. The treaty cannot be verified, it is not effective, it has no support from the nuclear owners and it is incompatible with our NATO membership, because, as you know, NATO is a nuclear alliance. No other NATO ally has signed that treaty. Then there is the question of the NATO standard. It is well known, of course, that in Wales we agreed to work towards 2% by 2024. So not necessarily that 2%, but at least work towards it. Of course, we are taking a very big step with the approximately EUR 1.5 billion that we are now investing extra in Defence as a new cabinet, but the economy is growing so fast that it is all rather disappointing as a percentage of national income. This means that we too, like all NATO members of the Alliance, are obliged to come up with a national plan for how we are going to deal with this in the years to come. So that's what we're writing. We will, of course, draw on the Defence Note and the other documents you have already received. Then there is the violation of human rights. In addition to individual cases of human rights violations, does the government also wish to raise the issue of the violation of collective rights, for example in contacts with Asian countries? That was a question from Mr Ten Hoeve. In particular, China was mentioned. That is what we are discussing. This is also done appropriately by members of the cabinet in contacts with China. I did that in my conversation Li Keqiang, the Prime Minister, two weeks ago. I raised the issue of the cultural and religious freedoms of ethnic minorities in China, particularly in response to the worrying reports about the situation in Xinjiang. I'm not saying it all right. We have a bilateral human rights dialogue with China, as we know. The most recent was on 20 June, when all human rights concerns were addressed, including individual cases and the rights of minorities such as Uighurs and Tibetans. Then there are the payments to Palestinian prisoners, the Voordewind motion. That was a question from Mr Schalk. The OS programme in the Palestinian territories is largely implemented with NGOs and international organisations. The Dutch and EU support to the Palestinian Authority cannot be used for these payments to Palestinian prisoners and is also provided with sufficient safeguards to prevent this. So there is no Dutch or European money going. The European Court of Auditors has described these guarantees as robust and we are working together with similar countries to increase pressure on the Palestinian Authority and also on the PLO to change the system of compensation to prisoners. Then the last question abroad. It was about the financial flow from the Gulf states to mosques and mapping them. There are rightly concerns about the transparency of foreign funding. It's important that we keep a close eye on this. In 2015, RAND published a feasibility study on the possibility to map foreign funding of Islamic institutions in the Netherlands on behalf of the WODC. There has been no frustration of the investigation within the government itself. The Minister for Foreign Affairs informed your Chamber of the state of play in his letter of 19 June. He also reported that a constructive discussion had been held by his ministry with the WODC and RAND on the progress of the 2015 investigation, providing insight into the information available to Foreign Affairs both during and after the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u136	Perhaps the most urgent international demand concerns the future of the medium-range missile treaty. If there is one thing that has occupied the Netherlands and Europe in recent decades, it is the placement of those missiles. It is a great success of the period after the fall of the Wall that we lost those missiles. That has been a huge reduction. Now the unilateral withdrawal of the treaty by the United States threatens to give us the chance to get these things back here. I imagine we share those concerns. May I ask the Prime Minister what the government is doing from our point of view, we are not a nuclear force, but we are also playing our role in the regime, together with partners, in order to perhaps improve this treaty, but at least to maintain it? Because if we lose the treaty, I think we're gonna lose a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u137	Yes. We're very much involved in that. Let me begin by saying that, most probably, that Russia, the Russian Federation, is violating the treaty. We also understand that America, the United States, cannot be infinitely patient that Russia does not open up about this. Nor is it for nothing that the Netherlands and all NATO alliance members have repeatedly called on Russia to engage actively in these talks with the United States to address these concerns, so that the US is also satisfied that things are going well. At the same time, we believe that we must do everything in our power to ensure that the treaty remains credible. Indeed, Mr Kox has made a huge contribution to stability and security in Europe, right there, by abolishing a whole class of grounded missiles and cruising weapons. We now see these images again and again, of course at the death of Wim Kok, of the Cabinets for Lubbers III, Lubbers I and II, and everything that was going on around this whole debate about the cross-flight weapons. We will continue to work closely with the US and NATO on follow-up, so the Netherlands is very closely involved. The latest news is, of course, that America is not immediately taking action, but taking a little more time. But with that, it's not certain that this is going well. So understand for America, but also at the same time the maximum effort to save the treaty in a credible way. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the next issue, which is security and justice. And then I have to say it again in the right order: justice and security. There was a very long question from the Christian Union. I won't repeat it. But in fact, Mr Kuiper's speech was essentially about recognizable public morality, about the need for it in a society, and about the importance of regulation and enforcement. He said that the services that need to do that have been reformed and cut, that the workload is high and that if that capacity is not sufficient, there is a risk that much will be overlooked. Without doing so, I shall begin with a reaction to Mr Kuiper's whole speech. I agree with his argument that promoting compliance with laws and rules and corresponding adequate enforcement are key elements for a credible government. When I say that our core tasks are security and jobs, the credibility on these issues is, of course, crucial. Part of this is that you also maintain properly. I think the picture he gives of the state of enforcement in our country is a little too gloomy, perhaps too gloomy. First of all, of course, prevention is better than cure. Therefore, in many areas, good information and prevention is rightly used. In more and more areas, the use of a very wide mix of enforcement instruments is also being chosen: administrative, criminal, civil. We also work with civil society and private parties. There are, of course, always areas where things can be done better. If that is the case, additional measures will be taken. Mr Kuiper himself cited the examples of the areas of work of the NVWA and the UWV. Wouter Koolmees has presented a package of measures to tackle benefit fraud in the case of UWV. This will come back in January 2019 with information on the state of play of that approach. I believe that with the 60,000 policemen in the Netherlands and the many others working in the armed forces, the public prosecutors and the judiciary, but also with the many social parties and NGOs in the Netherlands, we are maintaining our rule of law. Two things. Perhaps we do not entirely agree on the extent of the problem, but we do agree on the solution. There must be complete clarity as to what standards and values we in this society consider acceptable for behaviour under the law. We need to be very clear about that to each other and to people who come in. Secondly, if there are signs that things are not going well, we must also act very hard against them. That brings me to a specific point. This has to do with undermining, which Mr Kuiper also asked a question about. Maybe I can answer that, too, and he'll respond to both?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u138	I would like to respond to this. The question about undermining was about everything that happens around drug crime. This concerns services and the enforcement of laws and supervision. I do not want to respond to incidents, although we can now mention a whole series of incidents: construction supervision, UWV and so on. What matters to me is that we have had a whole discussion over the last ten or twenty years about inspections, about the capacity of inspections and about supervisory visions that go with them. The WRR reported on it. The previous cabinet, Rutte II, responded. That was also the case at the time with a state-wide inspection and state-wide monitoring framework. A lot of services have been reorganized, merged. A lot of staff left. My question is: where exactly are we? The previous cabinet was working in this area with former Minister Blok. I don't know what it's like right now. I am very curious to see how this reform agenda, which was rolled out at the time, has been followed up in your cabinet, where we are now. Because I think the care is still there. Is it enough? Is there enough capacity? Is there enough supervision or have we all become a bit of a slumpy in that area?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u139	Then I have interpreted the question differently. I get it now. What about the state-wide enforcement and what is the state-of-the-art? Then I would like to ask you to give me a little more official advice. Then I shall return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u140	What I want to say to the Prime Minister immediately is that we are getting an insight into the state of affairs, into how this cabinet is now thinking about the reform agenda and the state-wide supervisory vision of the previous cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u141	I get the question. For now, on the basis of the information I have in my head... I didn't prepare for this. I had interpreted the question differently. I really want to do it right. I'm about to combine the shreds in my head with the official advice. Mr. Chairman. Mr Brinkman dealt with frauds, such as what Nieuwsuur has been referring to lately, and whether they are being dealt with as expeditiously as excrements with letterbox companies. I would like to summarize briefly what Mr Brinkman said about them. We will all agree that fraud involving benefits is unacceptable, because it completely undermines the acceptance of our social security system. This approach is being stepped up. I said that just now in response to Mr Kuiper. The main measures are a more robust system of address registration, in which the BRP is leading, registration of intermediaries, address comparison by UWV and a broad investigation of abuse risks. A number of other studies will also take place: the culture at UWV, the handling of fraud signals, a data survey on working patterns and a trial with temporary employment agencies aimed at detecting culpable unemployment. As I have just said to Mr Kuiper, but now with some more background information, this will come back to the Chamber in January in an update. In addition, a broad warning letter on fraud will be sent before the summer of 2019. Then it is not only about the UWV but also about the signals from the Social Insurance Bank and from municipalities. Then, from the point of view of Mr Engels, the question of the provision of services to citizens who cannot afford legal aid themselves, plus a number of other points he made. Access to justice is an important pillar of our democratic rule of law. Mr Engels also referred to this. The case law resolves legal conflicts but does not always contribute to the solutions of the underlying problems. That is why we also want to focus on socially effective justice. There will be an experimental law for the case law which will make it possible to better meet the needs of people in the country and businesses. In addition, the Cabinet takes measures to promote forms of alternative dispute resolution, such as mediation. Of course, this has been under way for a long time. And soon we will come up with plans to review the system of subsidised legal aid and thus retain access to justice for the future for the weakest in society. We spend a lot of European money on subsidised legal aid. As far as the Registry fees are concerned, I would like to stress that they have only been indexed in recent years. The Minister for Legal Protection, as we all know, will soon come up with his vision of the future of the legal profession. He will send a letter to both chambers before the end of the year. As regards the system of financing the case law, the Minister will inform the two chambers further before the budgetary treatment of JenV in the Lower House. Then the point of undermining. As a cabinet, we do a lot of that. It's crucial that we get this done. The interconnectedness between the upper and the underworld, including in some regions, is extremely dangerous, but also serious, because there are also people who, at some point, are going to ask the question: who do I choose? Do I choose that part of society that's right? Or have I been put under such pressure, that society abandons me and so do I go along with the people who are not good? It is crucial that people know that they are supported by all of us. That is why we pay a great deal of attention to this in the coalition agreement. Additional funds will be available: 10 million, as we know, to strengthen organisations and a one-off anti-undermining fund of 100 million. A letter was sent by the Minister of Justice and Security on 11 July on this very necessary reinforcement and acceleration of the approach. That's what we're going to discuss with each other. Concrete plans for strengthening have been drawn up by all ten regions and by the national organisations, including by means of additional resources. Also on the allocation of these additional resources to further strengthen the approach to undermining and to give concrete form, the Minister will shortly inform the House of Representatives. This is a real spearhead, because it is indeed about showing that we support the positive forces in society and act hard against the people who are undermining it. The point of the drugs came along. "If we want to stop smoking, why do we encourage the use of hashish and marijuana, it seems occasionally." Of course we do not, but I only paraphrase about what was behind the thinking with Mr Kuiper and Mr Brinkman. We are very aware of the risks of drugs such as ecstasy, amphetamine and cocaine. We share the concern of an increasing sense of normalization of drug use, for example when going out or visiting a festival. That is why a great deal has already been done by the previous cabinet on drug prevention and standardisation of drug use has been called into question. This has to do with teaching materials for schools, support for parents in education, and tailor-made information and prevention on the basis of results from research. Then is especially interesting what the University of Amsterdam, Trimbos and Utrecht University of Applied Sciences are doing to get to know potential drug users even better. We can see that this effort is taking a long time, but it is also beginning to produce results. At the moment, Paul Blokhuis, the Secretary of State of VWS, is looking at the points where additional efforts are desirable to counter this further standardisation. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the concern, the next subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u142	Mrs. Strik is coming through.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u143	I had another question about enforcement, but at European level. I do not know whether the Prime Minister is still entitled to answer my question about the Article 7 procedure, Hungary and Poland.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u144	Sure. I don't have it here, but I can do it like this. That's where the Netherlands is on the gas pedal, but it has to go well in the process. That procedure is ongoing. It runs through the RAZ. Hungary has now been asked for a response. I have already said in the House of Representatives that if that is not enough or the behaviour is not changed, the Netherlands will then plead for the next steps to be taken. I also feel that this is the way it lives in the European Council. I find it totally unacceptable how Hungary was threatened at some point with poster campaigns against Mrs Sargentini's person. I also informed Viktor Orbán, my Hungarian colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u145	Good to hear. We also have, of course, the situation with Poland, which the Commission has already taken a first step towards. Can the Prime Minister give us a description of the deadline? 'Cause they're gonna get a chance to show what they're doing with the incentives. You can wait another year to see if there is going to be improvement, but is there any ambition at the Council to rush through this pressure as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u146	Oh, yeah. You ask for concrete timing, and then I'll just sit and see if I have it. No, I don't have that right now. It is now the Commission that is conducting this discussion with Hungary, which has now been initiated by the Council. At least as soon as possible. That is what we regularly report to the House of Representatives and I think that all these letters go in copy to the House of Lords, in the run-up to European Councils. It is different: Hungary is now really present at the General Affairs Council and comes to the European Council at some point and Poland is now in a process with the Commission. Frans Timmermans knows himself fully supported by the Netherlands and this cabinet is once again very widely supported by the parliament. Because, apart from market, currency and security, Europe is also a community of values. Mr Brinkman's first question on budgetary developments. Of course, they continue to worry our mathematicians. It is, of course, very special that I would like to say once again that we have that concern at this high level and that the millionaire gets the same good care as the very sweet ladies who take care of our coffee here. That is a real achievement, and that is just a top level and that you are not looking at your income at all or what amount you can contribute to it. We want to maintain this unique liberal, democratic health system with this quality, for our children and grandchildren. Anyway, then we have to manage healthcare expenditure. During the budget debate of VWS in the Lower House, the two ministers, De Jonge and Bruins, said that this is really a priority for them. A great deal has already been done in the previous cabinet. We do this as responsibly as possible, in good consultation with the people outside the ministries, so the parties in the care world itself. For example, Bruno Bruins, the Minister for Medical Care, has agreed to reduce the growth rate to 0% in 2022. The control of healthcare expenditure will continue to require attention after this cabinet period. Long-term agreements with parties in care are also needed. Moreover, they want to participate in these long-term agreements and have shown once again their willingness to take responsibility for this cabinet period. We really appreciate that, so it is something that is also felt there. Yeah, we have a wonderful system, but how do we keep it affordable? They understand that they have to contribute to that, and they do. As a cabinet, we also face this challenge. We have asked the scientists of the WRR and the social partners of the SER to look for opportunities that we do not yet see. They're shining their light on that right now. We expect new insights about this at the end of 2019. The choices we make, including in the longer term, will of course continue to be the subject of a wide public debate, because, of course, we all bear those costs. The discussion is often about your own risk and the care premium, but if you look at what's being paid by us all under water through your pay slip, it's thousands and thousands of euros a year that we contribute to our healthcare costs. They are very visible in the care premium and the own risk and the care allowance, but, of course, there is a lot underwater via the pay slip. So we are talking about very large amounts of money. Anyway, you've got something. We want to keep quality, but it must remain affordable in the long term. Then there was a question from Mr Schalk on this point, namely how we look at the perspective of self-development and self-development. Should the government no longer be focusing on participation, not from paid employment, but in the context of the debt instrument, and here comes the broad concept of prosperity? I think that people who care for their neighbors are invaluable to their immediate surroundings and to society. They give that care out of love, out of commitment, because they want to give something back to society. The Netherlands is in the field of volunteering at all, after I thought Denmark, number two of the world, or we are in the first place together. By its very nature, it is not appropriate to impose financial compensation on this, as is the case with formal care. In addition, there is also a practical consideration that prevents a financial compensation for a caregiver, however sympathetic the thought itself is, of course. A defined and verifiable definition of when a person is a caregiver simply does not exist and it is necessary for a fair, efficient and enforceable regime, without high administrative burden on the people in the government. The Social Support Act, Wmo, therefore looks at customization, rather than a strict definition, so that the specific situation is then leading. There is, of course, a policy to support the care that someone takes for a close friend and also to ensure that the caregiver can just physically sustain that care. We are committed to a broader support for carers, such as raising awareness among carers. Carers need to know they're not alone. If they need support or recess care, we want to be able to offer it easily and quickly, because carers are, of course, also older, partner, employee. The municipalities are the move here. The Langer Programme at home of Hugo de Jonge, the VWS Minister, also focuses on the development of an appropriate support offer, increased awareness among those caregivers and improved cooperation between the healthcare professionals and the more informal care providers. In this way one gives substance to the value of family care. Then the subject completed life. We are already dealing with abortion in the Netherlands, legalized, and euthanasia in the Netherlands, legalized. Mr Schalk asks what is the state of complete life? You know that in 2016 the Schnabel Committee conducted research into suicide aid to people who consider their lives to be complete. The committee looked at him now, but he is of course sitting here in a different capacity, as well as the Euthanasia Act. The committee concluded in the report on Life Completed that it is not clear what is the size of the group of people who have such a desire for death because they consider their lives to be complete, but who are not currently covered by the current scope of the Euthanasia Act, because their suffering has no or insufficient medical basis. That is why we believe that it is important for further reflection on this complex issue to have a closer look at the precise group of people involved. That is why we agreed in the coalition agreement to launch an investigation into the size and circumstances of this group. There are no developments yet to be reported. As mentioned in the Note medical ethics of the Minister of VWS, research will also be launched through ZonMw. That's all set in motion now. Mr Schalk raised the important issue of abortion. In response to what he said about that, a few things. The Netherlands is one of the countries with the lowest abortion rates. That does not alter the fact that, of course, this can always be done better. That is why we are committed to reducing the number of repeated terminations of pregnancy. We believe that it is important to use prevention and support in unintended pregnancies and especially in unintended teenage pregnancy. That is why we are making substantial extra money available in this cabinet period and will also be making structural money available from 2022 onwards. In spring 2018, Secretary of State Paul Blokhuis of VWS held several round tables with parties and agreed on prevention, support for unintended teenage pregnancy and general pregnancies. In addition, agreements have been reached on the provision of choice assistance which must be accessible and financed everywhere. These agreements are set out in the seven-point plan on unintended pregnancies, on which the House of Representatives was informed in September. The aim is to ensure that better information and assistance can be provided to prevent unintended pregnancies and thus repeated terminations of pregnancy. It is also currently being examined whether the future funding system for abortion clinics will allow financial compensation for the placing of long-term contraception. In itself, the Netherlands scores well with a low number of abortions, if you compare it in Europe. But certainly those repeated pregnancy breaks we try to reduce further in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u147	I have two questions for the Prime Minister because he connected two issues. They were both about life and death around completed life. I also know Mr Schnabel's report. I thought it was a brave report. But in the meantime, of course, there have been a number of developments around powder and the like, which may have caused a scare reaction to the cabinet. That's what I asked. Perhaps the Prime Minister would like to comment on that. With regard to all the measures taken so far on repeated abortions, will they be monitored or help? Because the 30,000 we've known so far, it's been like that for a couple of years. So you could estimate that this should at least be improved in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u148	The Minister and Secretary of State of VWS are in talks with relevant parties to examine what activities are needed to improve cooperation between abortion clinics and other healthcare providers. These are likely to become visible in the annual report 2019 of the Wet aborting pregnancy. In any case, this report will report it. I think that is an answer to the second question. In answer to the first question: it is of course a very emotional and delicate subject. It is not for nothing that the whole euthanasia legislation as we know it has had such a long lead time. This also applies to abortion legislation. It was initially tuned here in the First Chamber in 1980. It really is a step-by-step process. The same applies, of course, to euthanasia legislation. The discussion of completed life has yet another very extra dimension of sensitivity, if I may sum it up, in every way possible, among the advocates, the opponents and the people who are in doubt. If there are documentaries on TV or stories, Mr Schalk and I have spoken about them together, then that is poignant and of course leads to reflections, but with me or with the cabinet not in such a way that we say: we are going to amend existing euthanasia legislation to that effect. Of course, we constantly watch how the implementation practice goes. With regard to completed life, which is, of course, also a sensitive subject in this coalition, we have found each other on due diligence. In doing so, the first step we need to take is to identify exactly the size and circumstances of the group we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u149	Mr. Schalk, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u150	I would just like to make a point, Madam President. The tariness of the subject I have tried to point out by means of the title of that cup of mine. That was "respect for life and awe of death."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u151	Minister De Jonge and I said to each other: that is an impressive summary of that debate. But the phrase "the tarity of life and the fear of death" does not immediately lead to agreement on issues of abortion and euthanasia, I think. It does show the sensitivity of the subject. Mr. Chairman. A few more questions have ended up in the rest of the group. They deal with important issues that did not fall under a heading. I'll start with Groningen. Mr. Engels asked for that. I can confirm that a total of 1.15 billion is available for the Groningen National Programme, 650 million from the state budget and 500 million from the NAM. This amount shall be supplemented, where possible, by co-financing by other public and private parties. Then there was also a question about the commitment of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate in the debate on the Law on Minimisation Gas Extraction. He has assured me that the plan of action for the reinforcement will be there in a few weeks. That must be before 1 December. As regards the delays in the resolution of damage, the Minister mentioned in the debate to which you refer that the Independent Temporary Committee on Mining Damage itself has expressed the expectation that it will have completely eliminated the current work stock by the end of 2019. He has not yet been able to make an independent assessment of the precise effects of the acceleration measures that the TCMG is implementing, but these are necessary to further increase the pace. Because, as you all know, there are two major issues: damage and reinforcement. Finally, there was the question on this point...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u152	Mr. Engels, do you have anything else to ask? Oh, you'll be right there. Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u153	The third theme that Mr Engels has referred to together was the concerns and emotions of the inhabitants of the earthquake area and the fact that the confidence they have gained in the government has, of course, had a huge dent, if not irreparable damage, regardless of the physical damage. He asked me to say that this psychological context has a prominent place. I am extremely aware of the loss of confidence of many inhabitants of Groningen in the government, and so is Eric Wiebes. I have once said that I think it is our duty and our duty to ensure... We started with something that seemed to be very beautiful: the natural gas extraction. That was great, but it turned into a nightmare from 2011-2012. It has become a pure nightmare for all of us as drivers, but first and foremost for the people who live in the area and deal with it. I have, of course, seen a lot of cases there. We're all coming into that area. Mr Engels also knows the area. It's horrible. The confidence that the government is able to solve such a big problem in a decent way has been so badly damaged that I have said, when I was there, that I think we should just solve it properly, not with the aim of restoring confidence in politics. If that happens, that would be fantastic, but it's so far gone that I don't have that ambition right now. I have the ambition to solve it. I sincerely hope that people will eventually say: yes, it was terrible, but it happened. In any case, that will not be restored overnight. We will all have to do it: repair, strengthen, bring down gas extraction and invest in the economy of the area. There are fantastic people living there who have in many cases gone through hell in their personal lives. Of course, I hope the residue of that will be that there is also a restoration of confidence, but now saying that makes it seem as if that is now the main objective. The main goal must be to simply solve the problem of damage and reinforcement. In that I know Mr English by my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u154	Thank you for this response. I only have one more question. It's about the National Program and the 1.15 billion. I understand that this is not the only and last impulse we are going to give to the area. That is what my question was about. This is what we're gonna do now. The region is working on it. All kinds of programmes need to be developed. There will be co-financing by private parties; that is right. But what are we gonna do next? Because I do not think that this National Programme is going to achieve the objectives that we want to achieve there. I understand that there are no concrete plans for this at the moment, but I would like to know that there will be a follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u155	I can't look Eric Wiebes in the eye right now because he's sick today. So before I improvise now, I would like to ask the official support to provide me with a robust basis for the answer. I'll get back to you on that. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Jorritsma asked a question about the housing market. The accessibility of housing in the buying and renting sector naturally also has the attention of the cabinet. A number of things need to be done. First of all, more houses need to be built. So driving this housing is a top priority. But that also takes time. This may mean that people looking for a home do not immediately notice the effects. That's why we work with municipalities to see if we can be creative in some way about the housing shortage by stimulating temporary habitation of vacant buildings, prefab and modular construction, and also by mapping possibilities to build and live at the edges of the city. Then measures are needed to increase affordability and thus to counter excesses caused by the cut-off, such as cottage melting. All this calls not only for new policies, but also for intensive and long-term cooperation between the parties involved. That is why the cabinet is really directing and making agreements in the regions with the most tensions in the housing market. Because it varies greatly from region to region, customization is simply necessary. We make agreements with all the parties involved. These are the co-governments, but also the corporations, the interbranch organisations and the market players. Through various measures we support the acceleration of construction, for example with the 38 million made available for the fund for inner city transformation projects. The expert team on housing has started accelerating specific construction projects. At the beginning of this month, the proposal for an amendment of the Crisis and Recovery Act was sent to the House of Representatives. This will increase the scope for legislation and regulation. In order to increase affordability, we will increase the middle rental segment. The House of Representatives also received a bill in September. The aim is to ensure access to the market for start-ups and older people through the Platform mortgages. At the same time, we are trying to alleviate this need in an en-en-an-approach in all areas, but it will take time. Mr. Chairman. Then there was Mr Engels' question. It was about the state of democracy, if I may summarize it. He has, of course, said a lot more about this, but I do not want to try to sum up his speech. But I want to respond to it. For starters, I'm just gonna give you the facts. They're known. The Remkes State Commission will present its final report at the end of this year. I think it is good to have a real debate on the state of democracy and possible reform proposals. The Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, after the publication of the interim report by the State Committee, noted that we are currently abstaining from a substantive assessment of possible proposals. The state committee must be able to do the work in complete freedom. As Mr Engels also recalled, the Minister noted in the discussion of the draft law repealing the Advisory referendum Act in this Chamber that all preparations are being made within the Ministry to facilitate a swift reaction of the Cabinet to the final report and that the Cabinet wants to offer it to the Chambers as soon as possible after receiving the report. Of course, I fully endorse that, also because this is an important and relevant debate. The content of the cabinet response is, of course, dependent on the recommendations that will eventually be made in the final report. Mr Engels also asked me how the constitutional review procedure is going. The Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations has already undertaken to review the constitutional review procedure in the Lower House. This was because there were questions from the same Lower House about the progress of some of the second reading proposals and about the information which the Advisory Section of the Council of State issued last year in response to the legislative proposal on constitutional review. In that section, it makes recommendations to adapt and clarify the constitutional review procedure. On the basis of the progress of the State Committee, which we have not responded to in detail, it is reasonable to assume that it will also make one or more recommendations with regard to this procedure. You don't have to be a psychic for that. In order to be able to include that report in the cabinet's position on the constitutional review procedure, Kajsa Ollongren, the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, aims to present that position to the Chambers as soon as possible after the publication of the final report of the State Committee. Then there was Mr Schalk of the SGP's remark that we set up a committee for every problem, because a committee has now been set up in the area of migration. Well, that's not so bad. I really want to take that image away. We do a lot of things without committees. Sometimes you need it to bring knowledge together. This is really such a subject, migration, and above all how to avoid endless procedures and the risk that they go through too long. It's wise to have experts look at it. I do not now have a comprehensive overview of possible temporary committees, but as far as I can remember them now, they are useful. One example is the Van Zwol Committee, which is investigating this long-term residence without a right of residence. It looks at all aspects of the question that, despite a refusal of their application for admission and the resulting obligation to leave, foreigners are often staying in the Netherlands for a long time. Then she advises us on the approach. Then the Crown Domain. Yeah, we're going from subject to topic here. I would like to point out what has already been discussed in detail in the House of Representatives, namely a letter from the Minister for Agriculture, also on my behalf. It has also been discussed in great detail in the General Affairs budget. I think that was the beginning of October. In addition, paragraph 2 of Article 42 of the Constitution states that the King is of course inviolable and the Minister is responsible. With regard to the Crown Domain, a number of specific situations are important to report. Now I have to sketch something of history, Mr. Chairman. It'll take me two minutes. Unfortunately, I can't be very brief. I can, of course, refer briefly to the whole procedure in the House of Representatives, but I fear that Mr Koffeman will not accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u156	I would like to ask Mr Koffeman a question. Do you want to listen to history first? Take that chair and sit down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u157	I'm gonna tell you. On 3 April, the House of Representatives accepted the Arissen motion. That motion asked the government to open the Kroondomain Het Loo to the public the year round. A letter came up. In that we explained that at the time, it was finally decided to protect the Crown Domain from disinheritment. That is why Queen Wilhelmina transferred to the State the actual Crown Domain that until then was her private property. It grants this property to the State in naked hands provided that the usufruct remains with the Crown Carrier and can therefore continue to manage it as a whole. Thus, the full use and management of the Crown Domain remained a private property of the Crown Carrier. The fruit user of a good may freely, such as an owner, possess that good with the exception of the right to dispose of it or sell it. Thus, although the Crown Domain belongs entirely to the private sphere of the Crown Carrier in terms of its use, it is open to the public between 25 December and 14 September and partly during the rest of the year. I would also mention that the management of the real Crown Domain is based on the principle of natural forest management and is based on a coherent policy in the areas of wood production, population management and recreational opportunities. Fauna management in the area takes place in compliance with the provisions of the Nature Conservation Act on the basis of a fauna management plan approved by the Minister of LNV, formerly Economic Affairs. In short, the fruit user adheres to all laws and regulations for the management of the Crown Domain. Otherwise, there is nothing to show that there is anything to be said about the management of the estate. It follows that the management of the Crown Domain does not involve the public interest referred to in Article 41 of the Constitution. This means that it is not therefore up to the cabinet to judge the specific choices that are being made. This led to the next interesting discussion in the House of Representatives. "If so, what about the grant?" This led to the filing of a motion which was held in the Lower House. For the sake of clarity, I would like to summarize her in order to grant the grant in the event of a subsequent grant application only if the Crown Domain is open all year round. I said that there is no grant application at all. If this motion is adopted, it will, of course, be a relevant political fact that in due course will be involved in a possible new grant application. We'll talk about 2021. The only tool politically has to exert indirect influence on this would be the granting of subsidies. That is actually the conclusion of the Second Chamber debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u158	That's a beautiful exposition, but it doesn't quite add up. That's too bad. It is true that there can be no subsidy for areas with limited opening-up. In that sense, that should be looked at again, but well, the motion has been stopped. The point here today is that the cabinet has said that the King will set up his house as he wishes, in accordance with Article 41 of the Constitution, while respecting the general interest. The Lower House has ruled on the general interest. She said that the public interest demands that this area, which belongs to all of us, be opened up all year round. That wish of the House of Representatives has bereft of the cabinet with reference to the King. Last weekend, a number of reporters asked the king whether it would not be a royal gesture to open it, as he is the one who can decide whether to open it or not; he established his house in accordance with Article 41 of the Constitution. Then the king said: this discussion belongs in the Lower House. Thus he returned the ball to the Lower House, who had already made a decision on it, namely that it should be opened up. That's gonna give us a new situation. I asked the Prime Minister about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u159	Let's talk about the grant. This is an SNL grant, the Subsidiestelsel Nature and Landscape, provided by the Ministry of LNV. You know that. The current subsidy was granted for the period until 31 December 2021. An agreement has been drawn up between the Crown Domain and the Ministry. That subsidy cannot be cancelled unilaterally. The grant was granted on the basis of the Framework Act EZ grants under similar application of a Grant Regulation Nature and Landscape Management Gelderland 2016. The Regulation allows for an exemption from the obligation to open and keep accessible nature reserves for at least 358 days. That exemption has been granted. That is the issue of the granting of subsidies. With regard to Article 41 of the Constitution, it is not the case that when the Court says that the public interest is the public interest, it is also the public interest. That's not how it works. That is up to me, at least the one with the ministerial responsibility. This is not only regulated by Article 41 of the Constitution, but also by informing the Council of State about the public interest. Something is therefore not of public interest because the majority of the Chamber thinks so. Finally, with regard to the King's statement, I leave the interpretation of it entirely to Mr Koffeman. I didn't hear it in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u160	Mr. Koffeman, finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u161	It would be good if the Prime Minister read back that remark from the King in the various media. The king was very clear. He said that this discussion belongs in the Lower House. It cannot be the case that there is a stalemate because the Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture say that it is up to the King to take a decision and that the King says that it is up to the House of Representatives to decide. So I'd like the Prime Minister's clarity. You may leave the King's interpretation of a remark for my responsibility, but it is your ministerial responsibility to cover the King's statements. I'd think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u162	Yeah, but that's by definition true. And I leave your interpretation to you. By the way, the House of Representatives discussed this in detail. There's a motion under arrest right now. It is now up to the Party for Animals in the House of Representatives to decide what to do with it. I have said that it is a relevant political fact if that motion is adopted and that it will be weighted in the event of a re-grant application. So perhaps you should encourage your colleagues in the House of Representatives to put that motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u163	I understand, but my question...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u164	Mr. Koffeman, for a short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u165	Very briefly. My question wasn't about the subsidy. My question was about opening up. That opening has, I note, become a stalemate because the king refers to the Second Chamber and the prime minister refers to the king.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u166	No, it's not like that. Your interpretation of the king's words is not correct, so I repeat. The king and I always say the same thing, so that's okay. There is therefore no route through Article 41 of the Constitution to enforce it through politics. If politics so wishes, then politics can create a relevant political fact by adopting the motion of the Party for Animals in the House of Representatives. I didn't recommend the motion. She's in there now, arrested. I therefore believe that Mr Koffeman should perhaps have collective discussions with his colleagues on the other side. I cannot believe it, Mr President, but I think I have answered all the questions. Unless someone's running forward angry right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u167	Not according to Mrs Faber, because she's gonna ask you a few more questions. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u168	Two questions have not been answered by me. One question was about the travelling judge Al K., who races back and forth every month from Amsterdam to Baghdad. I don't know if the Prime Minister remembers that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u169	Sure. Sure. The answer to Mrs Faber's question is as follows. Municipalities are responsible for the implementation of the Participation Act. This also concerns the enforcement of obligations, such as the obligation of a beneficiary to report all income. In the event of disputes, the judgment is ultimately up to the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u170	So nothing else actually happened to it, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u171	This is not the responsibility of the government. The implementation of the Participation Act lies with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u172	You had another question, Mrs Faber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u173	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then we'll go to the next one. Maybe that's what you're talking about. It is about the NGO network that is responsible for the grant infusion and is now undermining national policies. How long are we gonna go on subsidising these NGOs? For example, I'm talking about such an action as Don't send them back. That was UNICEF, Oxfam Novib and Refugee work and so on. The SP, GroenLinks and the PvdA also participated. We are wrong when we give money to NGOs, if we subsidise them, and if they then undermine national policies? How long are we gonna keep doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u174	That is the orbánisation of Dutch politics and of Dutch society. I'd be against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u175	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u176	I don't quite understand the answer. What are you against?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u177	What you are describing is one of the reasons why the Article 7 procedure against Hungary has started, namely that support for NGOs should focus entirely on whether they support the government. I would like all NGOs to support the auspicious work of this coalition, but it does not happen once or twice. I don't understand!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u178	A question has also remained of mine. It seemed possible to reach an agreement between Serbia and Kosovo on exchange of territory. This has been somewhat negative from Western Europe. From a country like Spain I can imagine that, but I would be very sorry if such sounds were also ventilated from the Netherlands. The question is, did that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u179	Let's see, Mr. Chairman. I think I probably just missed that topic. Yeah, here's the answer. The Netherlands supports the process of dialogue between Serbia and Kosovo. It is now primarily up to these two parties to resolve the disputes. I also spoke with the Kosovar Prime Minister on the margins of the UN General Assembly in September. However, the solutions should contribute to the security of the region and be in accordance with international law. That's how the Netherlands looks at it. So we didn't say you should or shouldn't do it. We have said: be careful that if you do something there, it will create new problems. Because it's not that easy to draw those boundaries properly. But, again, we have said that it is really up to the parties to find a solution. So we didn't say we were against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u180	Finally, Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u181	That's obvious. The conclusion is then justified, I think, that with the consent of both parties, border change is not contrary to international law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u182	I'm not immediately qualified for that. You may well be right about that. The point is more that the Kosovo-Serbia border problem is extremely fragile and has to do with where the Kosovars are in Serbia and vice versa. It's not like if you solve it politically now, the whole problem is gone. That is why we have always said: make sure that, when you come to something in a dialogue, you take the test for yourself or it also promotes security in the region and whether it is really in accordance with international law. So we're not saying that we're against it in advance. But "cautioned," to put it in good Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u183	Maybe I missed it, but maybe the answer wasn't there either. I have asked when we can expect an action plan for barn fires and to formulate prevention policies to prevent barn fires. I have found that members of the coalition parties in the House of Representatives systematically vote against such a prevention policy. Does the cabinet intend to come up with such a prevention policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u184	First of all, this is an important point for the cabinet. In recent years, the legal requirements for fire safety for new stables have been strengthened in the Building Decision. The awareness of livestock farmers about fire safety has also been increased. Furthermore, barn fires are now better registered, giving more insight into the causes. With these insights, the parties concerned are now continuing to reduce the risk of barn fire and thus the number of animals killed. The Animal Protection Agency, Fire Weather Netherlands, the Association of Insurance Companies, LTO Netherlands and the major livestock sectors, including the Producers Organisation Pigs Farming, have worked hard over the past month on the Action Plan on fire-resistant livestock houses 2018-2022. Part of this are the tasks of the coalition agreement in the field of electrification and control of rodents. Furthermore, the Minister of LNV, together with the Minister of BZK, is conducting an investigation into the financial and practical consequences of future fire safety requirements in existing stables. That investigation is almost complete. The Minister will soon communicate about the follow-up steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u185	I had just made a brief comment on public transport. 70% of the 70-plussers don't want to travel with that anymore. The trains are also overcrowded. I asked at the end of my story about that awareness campaign. The Prime Minister didn't respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u186	I'll take it with me. I think I have three more things to say that I will return to them in second term. I'll get this one over there. I see only the AZ administration with a great question mark. Or, no, there's a thumb raised. So they know what it's about. So that comes back in second term. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions, albeit with the help of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u187	Thank you. We have arrived at the second term of office. Mr. Kox, you wanted to ask me something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u188	Madam President, could we suspend a minute or ten before starting the second term, so that we can better prepare it, also in connection with possible motions to be tabled?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u189	I'll take a look around. Agreed? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u190	We have arrived at the second term of office. I will tell each of those who speak how many minutes are left of the total period that has been mentioned. Mrs Faber, you have two minutes according to my list. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by tabling a motion on the return of Syrians. The President shall: Members Faber-van de Klashorst, Van Hattem, Peter van Dijk, Ton van Kesteren, Van Strien, Van der Sluijs, Aardema, Kok and Dercksen propose the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas 700,000 Syrians have already returned home;]] [[noting that Syrians are still entering the Netherlands;]] [[noting that a large group of Syrians has been resident in the Netherlands for five years next year and may therefore qualify for an indefinite residence permit;]] [[calls on the Government not to grant Syrians a residence permit and to pursue an active policy to allow Syrians to return to Syria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-A]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u192	Let me now turn to the UN migration agreement. The question arises as to why, if it is not binding, we would sign. A message just came in that the Czech Republic isn't going to sign either. Hungary's not gonna sign. Austria, Denmark and Poland have doubts. By signing this agreement, you also sign for the implementation of the policy. The Prime Minister says he's going to sign. He signs up for the end of the Netherlands and that is why the PVV Group expresses its confidence in the government. I support that with this motion. The President shall: Members Faber-van de Klashorst, Van Hattem, Peter van Dijk, Ton van Kesteren, Van Strien, Van der Sluijs, Aardema, Kok and Dercksen propose the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the UN Migration Agreement opens the borders to hundreds of millions of migrants, who can travel through Africa into Europe and hence into the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the current African population is expected to increase explosively this century from 1 billion to 4 billion people;]] [[Whereas the influx of hundreds of millions of non-Western migrants leads to the complete collapse of the Dutch welfare state and is the end of the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the Prime Minister did not express his firm intention to reject the UN migration agreement and therefore not to sign the agreement;]] [[expresses its confidence in the government,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-B]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u193	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Given the reactions here in the Chamber, we can say how arrogant power has become. You can say 'well yes', but I mean that this migration agreement is a very important point. It's kind of laughing about it, but we'll see the results in a few years' time, how we'll be standing. Good. I would like to comment on the various colleagues I have listened to. There are several group chairmen who express their concerns about populists in covert terms. They're too scared to just tell you and just say straight out that they'd rather see them go than come. Mr President, I must help these people out of the dream. We have entered the Senate to stay, and to make the voice of our constituents heard here. For they too have the right to democratic representation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u194	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I give the floor to Mrs Jorritsma, who spoke so quickly in the first term, that she has 16 minutes left. I don't suppose she's gonna complete it entirely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u195	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u196	But first, Mr. Coffeeman. Who do you have a question for, Mr. Koffeman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u197	It's up to you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to make a point of order. Normally it is the case, at least on the other side, that in the event of a motion of censure, the vote is taken immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u198	No, we vote the same day, Mr. Koffeman. We'll vote later. Mrs Faber, would you like to say something?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u199	Mr President, it is true that we are voting on the same day, but it is often the case that this motion is then put to the vote first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u200	That's absolutely true. Thank you. Mrs Jorritsma, you have eight minutes, but I suspect you're not going to complete it entirely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u201	Well, if I speak too long, or use all my time, there is a chance that we will not vote today. I wouldn't want to, so I won't use it and try to do it in a short time. Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the Prime Minister for his comprehensive and exceptionally good response. I think all the questions I've asked have been answered. We also agree on the importance of the locational climate. I am very pleased that we have agreed on this. I also find it extremely regrettable that this is always being nibbled at: the positivity about the locational environment and its importance for economic growth in this country. If there is no economic growth in this country, we cannot improve the quality of life. Then we can't afford the energy transition. But then we cannot help the people who are still on the sidelines and who are long-term unemployed, for whatever reason, to get to work. My point is: the tighter the labour market, the more likely that older people can stay in the labour market, that people can get into the labour market and that young people will continue to work. We simply need economic growth. You wish it wasn't. It made life a lot simpler. But it's not. We're in a competitive environment. So we will have to make sure that we do this right, and in that sense I am very happy to follow what the Prime Minister has said about it. Then about the WAB, the Labour Market Act in balance. It is completely separate from the discussion and the solutions that we need to come up with forzzp'ers. Of course, this cannot be seen separately, because the greater the success of the Labour Market Act in balance, there is also less reason for employers not to employ people in permanent employment. It will then become easier and should also provide a solution. I hope, by the way, that we will take steps in thezzp dossier and that we will continue to make a real distinction between those who are actually undertaking and those who are actually in a sham structure, although it is not very easy to define that very precisely. I think that is exactly the problem that we have faced in the past and which I hope we will not do again. Let me ask you a question about pensions. You have not yet said whether you have the idea that there is a prospect of a solution, and what you will do if that solution is delayed for a very long time. After all, I think it is becoming a little painful that it seems more that the importance of the organisations sitting at the table is more important than that of the people who are talking about it. That is both the pensioners and the people who simply have to pay the premium. On climate change, the Prime Minister said that we could expect the results by the end of the year. We'll see. We have set out the framework conditions on which we will test. I would like to say a few words about the security importance of a socially and politically stable environment. We had only three or four vital security interests for a very long time: economic security, physical security, environmental security, and, of course, territorial autonomy. But lately, of course, that fifth vital safety concern has just been added. Social and political stability is a vital security issue. That's what we see in all kinds of places on Earth where it's not there. We must therefore be very careful to ensure that we continue to maintain stability within Europe with as many countries as possible. That's not easy, because there are all kinds of centrifuging movements going on to break us up. I will continue to do my utmost to fight populists at that point. Of course they have a place in democracy, but as far as I'm concerned, that place should be as small as possible. We will continue to do our best to do so. Mr. Chairman. I wish the cabinet much strength in the further development of the plans. Much remains to be done. Get to work, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u202	Thank you, Mrs Jorritsma. I give the floor to Mr Kox, who has eight minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u203	Madam President. They were general reflections on the budget for the coming year, but also general reflections by the political groups and the government on the political and social developments in our country and in the surroundings of our country, even the distant environment. I thank my colleagues for their input and I thank the Prime Minister, who reminded me of Wim Kan's beautiful song: what a speaker that man is, what a speaker that man is. I mean that sincerely. It is not easy to answer this Chamber for hours and make everyone feel: does the Prime Minister agree with me, does he disagree with me or is it somewhere in between? Sometimes it is in between, and that is also very good, but that does not mean that during these General Reviews fractions of their faith fall. Nor should the Prime Minister expect that from my group, the SP Group. I have indicated why this budget is not ours, certainly not in the light of the fact that we find with the Social and Cultural Planning Office that we are dealing with a serious division of population in society. The Prime Minister and I agree that this cannot only be resolved with a budget, but I would like to have a deeper discussion, perhaps soon in the form of a policy debate, on how we are losing so many people by "we', I mean all political parties. These people are simply no longer participating because, according to the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, their confidence in justice, the police, the government, parliament and other institutions is moving in the opposite direction than the other parts of society with whom things are going better. I think we should think about this in depth. Perhaps the Prime Minister will be able to respond to that. We have a lot to talk about. Fortunately, we also have many moments: the General Financial Reviews shortly, the discussion on the Tax Plan and budget chapters that we may be able to discuss. I shall now briefly take stock of this debate for our group. I am pleased that the Prime Minister also shares concerns about the widening of population groups, that he says it is a major problem and that it is an obligation for all political parties to work on it. The question is, how are we going to do that? I am pleased that the Prime Minister said in his own words that he was sick of derailment in the banking sector and said that we cannot afford it, especially since the banking sector plays such an important role in financial services, with a semi-public function. I am glad that there is talk in the Lower House about how criminal proceedings could also be carried out in these cases. I would like to see how the discussions continue there. We disagreed on the operation that the government is now engaged in with corporation tax after the failure of the dividend tax plan. The Prime Minister made it seem more or less as if something was being given and what is being taken: reduction of corporate tax but also broadening of the base. The figures I have given in response indicate that it is mainly the handing out of a lot of money to the big money. That money, as the Prime Minister always tells us, can only be spent in one way. So if we give to the big money, it cannot be given to the great needs of society. That is a political choice that this government may make, leaning on an extremely small majority, but it is not the choice that my group makes. I am glad that more groups in this Chamber say: sorry, Prime Minister, but we are not going with you in this. I am disappointed about it and, more importantly, large sections of the population are disappointed that when the abolition of the dividend tax did not go through so easily, almost in an instant, the money ended up where many people felt it should not have been. Madam President. I am disappointed at something that concerns this whole Chamber: the weak way in which the cabinet is following up on widely adopted motions here. First of all, I would like to mention the motion by Mr Ganzevoort, on setting a minimum social standard in the BES islands. We adopted that motion in 2016, but now the Prime Minister says: we hope to be able to tell a little more about it in the summer. I do not think, Mr Prime Minister, that the scarce motions that are being adopted here can be dealt with in this way. Soon we'll be three years and we'll still have nothing, but we're talking about 25,000 people from our kingdom, who are denied a right that other people in the kingdom do. I'd like to ask you if you really can't do it any faster, at least in the first quarter of next year. I am also very disappointed at the follow-up that the government has not yet given to a motion that was adopted here last year on setting a reduction target for combating child poverty. That motion was already a follow-up to a motion which was adopted by this Chamber a year and a half before and which resulted in an extensive SER report. Now the Prime Minister says: we do our best and count on it. I really think that we should say to the government that we are disappointed about this and that we believe that we need to speed it up. I would like to put the next motion to that effect, Madam President. The President shall: Mr Kox, Mr Strike, Mr Van Leeuwen, Mr Schalk, Mr Ester, Mr Nagel, Mr Koffeman, Mr Kuiper, Mr Sent and Mr Ten Hoeve proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[notes that the successive motions-Van Apeldoorn c.s. and Kox c.s., of March 2016 and December 2017 (34300, P and 34775, D), concerning a SER study on child poverty and the formulation of reduction targets on child poverty were adopted by a large majority;]] [[notes with disappointment that this reduction target is still not in place;]] [[Notes that, despite economic prosperity, child poverty is still in full swing;]] [[calls on the Government to set this reduction target by the first quarter of 2019 at the latest in order to ensure that related policies to reduce child poverty can be effectively implemented,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-C]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u204	This motion can therefore be seen as a policy support, insofar as the Prime Minister meant that this will also be done in the next first quarter. On the other hand, it is a little support and a move in the back to say: listen, when you make agreements with this Chamber, and so I consider motions that are widely adopted, they must also be carried out. We're not a motion circus here like the other side sometimes seems, so if this Chamber says anything, we think something should be done with it. Madam President. Finally, I welcome the comments made by the Prime Minister, also in response to our comments, on the great concern about the possibility of the Treaty on medium-range nuclear missiles and their return to Europe. It is really very important that small but important countries such as the Netherlands, the Prime Minister, have now indicated that in his speech, "Let's hear their voices." We don't have that much space. We're not the ones who made the treaty. That's Russia and the United States. But I do think that, also in view of our past here in the Netherlands around the placement of long-range rockets, we have every interest in doing everything possible to prevent the destruction of this treaty. I think that commitment is very important. I have considered tabling a motion on this, but I felt that the Prime Minister was more than clear. I hope he will keep the House informed of developments on that front, because one more time: I am not worried about many things, but if this treaty were to go to the gallemies to say it disrespectfully, it would be extremely bad for everything that has been achieved after the end of the Cold War. I am pleased that the Prime Minister has spoken clearly about this. At the end of such a debate, it is a good thing to be able to draw that important conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u205	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I still owe you the words that Mr Kox's motion has been duly signed. Here's to it. I give the floor to Mr Brinkman. He's got six minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u206	Mr. Chairman. Our group sincerely wishes to thank the Prime Minister for the energy he brought out on behalf of the cabinet. But not only in this debate, because that is more common. As far as we are concerned, this may continue for a little longer than after the elections. You have heard this in the final sentence of my speech in the first term. You rightly didn't comment on that, but that's why it's been pronounced. Secondly, I would like to say that we very much understand the comments made by the Prime Minister on the multipolarity in the new world order. It is very good that our country, also in view of our history, is putting a lot of energy into that. You will do the same with your colleagues, and you must continue to do so. But let us be careful that, in the end, Europe is the only international environment closest to home, on which we are also very dependent. You have also recognised this, even more so than on previous occasions, so that is also to be commended. We know that it is complicated, but we must of course avoid that if we are going to pay too much attention to this multilaterality, Europe will crumble, as it were, because of the circumstances that you yourself have clearly outlined. So that energy and that attention are needed. Because if we also get something from 'they are needed, but they do nothing or they do too little or they fall apart', then we are on a world trip all day, and then we can indeed get the situation that we are now also encountering between France and Italy at the borders. You yourself mentioned the example of Schengen. We're not waiting for that. I do not think that has been said to deaf ears, but I would like to underline it. That's all I really wanted to get back here. We do not need an understatement of what the Prime Minister has said; they are in the Acts. It is up to us, and above all to colleagues across the street, to sit behind the cabinet when it comes to commitments that have been made and that are not delivered in time. I mentioned the issue of child poverty. I didn't put that forward for no reason. Our group has said at first and repeatedly that we need to be more precise in the distribution of administrative roles. We have a cabinet to carry things out. We can discuss the broad lines here, but we should not sit in the chair of the cabinet, especially from the First Chamber. To say: we are going to repeat a motion and underline again... As far as child poverty is concerned, the Prime Minister has, I understand, promised to do his best. The Secretary of State will help him very much. We'll hold him to that, too. Assume we say it if the House of Representatives doesn't. Your credibility is at stake. I said that in the first term, and I repeat that. That is how I know the Prime Minister: if we clarify these things and not talk about generalities, then we are serious too. So thank you for the cooperative in this debate and much strength in the further development. We will look at the other motions when they are distributed. However, I would like to express my feeling on behalf of the group that the need for the various motions does not arise in our midst.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u207	Well, that's clear. Thank you, Mr. Brinkman. I give the floor to Mrs Sent. You have four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The birthday parties of Paul Depla, PvdA mayor in Breda, were always ruined by Uncle Harry, who spoiled the atmosphere with whining about the food and the location. I don't want to be Uncle Harry at the Cabinet's birthday party, let there be no misunderstanding about that. I just want to make it more cozy by inviting more people. In the opinion of the PvdA, the cake should be distributed more fairly. After all, workers' wages are lagging behind in the distribution of profits, the burden on labour and income is increasing and the burden on business is lower. The tax on profits is reduced in order to improve the business environment, but the public sector is an essential contributor to that locational environment. That is why we are missing employees in general and those in the public sector in particular at the birthday party. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister presents his team as a reform cabinet, but I miss the urgency to tackle the major challenges we face. The birthday cake will only be smaller if the cabinet does not show more decisiveness in tackling climate problems, inequalities in the labour market, the social divide in our country and the financing of our pension system. And a good birthday cake has not only gross domestic product, purchasing power and employment as ingredients, but the wide palette of Sustainable Development Goals. Mr. Chairman. The PvdA believes that together works better than alone. That is why we have contributed to the motions that will be tabled on our behalf by Senator Strik van GroenLinks and Senator Kuiper of the Christian Union. The first calls for attention to be paid to inequalities in the labour market and proposes concrete solutions. The second calls for a better embedding of the broad understanding of prosperity in our political debate. That's how I try to make the birthday party, unlike Uncle Harry, a bit more cozy, but the PvdA group doesn't feel very welcome yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I have already heard a response from the Prime Minister, but he can come back to that in a second term. I give the floor to Mr Engels. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u210	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his comprehensive and often adequate response. It is a pleasure to be able to debate in an equally competent and relaxed manner during the General Reviews. Very briefly on some of the points I have raised. For the sake of clarity, I agree with Mrs Jorritsma's question on the future of the pension system. What is the view at the moment? That's not quite clear. And what are we going to do if we don't get out with the polder or if the polder even fails? I can be very brief about the climate. I have asked for a firm commitment from the cabinet, and that is what has come. I assume that we will have the matter on the table in January. I didn't hear another sound either. One point is still open about the extraction of gas. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his particular attention to what I call the 'psychological component'. I assume he has sufficiently understood from me that this is really an appropriate point, including in the region itself. So that's good. What is only open is the National Programme which is currently fixed at 1.15 billion. I would regret it if that was the final situation as well. As far as we are concerned, that would not be possible. It's gonna take a lot more than that to get things back together. Then democracy. I've been very detailed about that, so I'm not going to do that anymore. I understand that there is some speed in the cabinet, that the direction of the Minister for the Interior is also crucial and that the issues I mentioned will be addressed. For the time being, we're waiting for the State Commission's report. I understand that, but I still have two questions. In fact, it is not even a party political question from my group. I have occasionally used the words 'central constitutional institutions'. I think we are dealing here with an issue which should actually rise above politics. I would like to hear a little more from the Prime Minister about whether he shares that there is a certain urgency to at least look at the need to modernise our political system and that the status quo can no longer be maintained. I know there's a lot of shudder for that here and there or left and right, whatever you want to call it, and yet it seems inevitable to me. I have a second question about something I want to know. I would like to draw your attention to the situation of the previous state committee which has produced a report. The then cabinet was a cabinet-Balkenende it was, I believe, said that they recognized themselves in nothing and then almost insultingly or embarrassingly sent home that whole state committee after years of work. I assume that the cabinet response will not say 'not recognizable, we are not going to do anything', but that further steps will be taken. Which ones are, I do not need to discuss now, but the outcome "zero" would be extremely disappointing. Mr President, that was it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u211	Thank you, Mr. English. I give the floor to Mrs Strik. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u212	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his fine and entertaining speech. Too bad about the wrong choices, but otherwise it was beautiful. I see a relationship between lack of social policy, division and populism. People simply do not understand that we in the rich Netherlands are not assured of good care, good education and safety. Some politicians exploit that displeasure with a rhetoric that people play against each other and exclude. This also deepens the division. It is precisely if we want to strengthen public values that we must tackle this division with great urgency. I therefore wholeheartedly support Mr Kox's call to speed up poverty policies and to strengthen the public sector. That sector is chicken and egg as far as we are concerned, because it is also part of the climate of establishment. We have talked about the labour market. The WAB is coming, but it only controls flex and solid and not the position of zzp'ers. Their precarious situation is acute. That is why we wish to table a motion for a resolution on this matter. The President shall: Mr Strik, Mr Sent, Mr Kox, Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Nagel proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the gap between flex and fixed work is large and the position of many flex workers on small temporary contracts is vulnerable;]] [[Whereas, in addition to flex workers, the position of a large group ofzzp's working at low rates is also vulnerable;]] [[Whereas, in addition, the position of allzzp'ers is unclear and the existing DBA Act does not provide any clarity;]] [[whereaszzp'ers are important, but they must be able to choose the zzp-ship for the right reasons, as the coalition agreement says;]] [[Whereas there should be no downward race in tariffs and working conditions which inhibits the growth of the economy and undermines the support and foundation for the welfare state;]] [[noting that the Labour Market Bill has not yet reached balance beyond the Internet consultation and that initiatives to repair the DBA Act are not yet in sight;]] [[noting that, as a result, groups ofzzp'ers and flex workers remain unnecessarily in a vulnerable position on the labour market for a long time;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to rapidly clarify the position of vulnerablezzp'ers and flexworkers and, in any case, to ensure that they have rapid access to a safety net in the event of disability and pension rights,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u213	We have to wait a little longer for pension reform. I hope it will come soon, but I would like to draw attention to the difficult professions. The Prime Minister was very easy with his reference to the employers, as if bus companies could offer people a job in the office so easily. I would say: look at Belgium; they do have a definition of heavy-duty professions and they also have a regulation for that. We also welcome the Prime Minister's undertaking that the Article 7 procedure will be put into effect in the Council or that the Prime Minister will at least do his best. Finally, the climate. It is high time that the ambitions of the cabinet were fulfilled. We can expect concrete measures at the beginning of December. We would like to urge the cabinet, by means of a motion, to ensure climate justice from the outset. The President shall: Mr Strik, Mr Kox, Mr Koffeman, Mr Van Leeuwen and Mr Ganzevoort proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is broad support for measures to reduce emissions by 49% by 2030 and to increase the European reduction target for 2030 to 55%;]] [[having noted that the Plan Office for the Environment and the Central Planning Bureau found that the instrumentation behind the proposed measures was too short and the latest IPCC report shows that actions need to be accelerated in order to achieve the objectives;]] [[Considering that, in the short term, the government is steering the climate tables towards a set of concrete instruments leading to the required reduction in emissions by 2030 of 49% compared to 1990;]] [[Whereas there are concerns that climate measures will disproportionately burden citizens, particularly those belonging to low-income groups;]] [[calls on the Government to develop the measures in such a way as to ensure a proportionate burden-sharing of income for citizens and a proportionate burden-sharing of consumption between large industrial consumers and citizens,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u214	Finally, Mr President. It was also my last General Political Reviews. I enjoyed it. These were fantastic hours, but it's not goodbye, because I look forward to continuing the dialogue over the next seven months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u215	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr Kuiper. He also has two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u216	Mr. Chairman. My group also thanks the Prime Minister and the Cabinet. We've seen the Prime Minister a little bit in the style we know of him, which creates a lot of confidence. As far as we're concerned, the cabinet is getting steamed. We wish it a great deal of strength to continue along this path and to achieve results. As far as our input today is concerned, I am glad to hear about the monitoring and enforcement and the movement in this cabinet. I saw the Minister of the Interior nodding just now when I asked a question about that, so the question was recognized. I would very much appreciate it if we could get the state of affairs of the state-wide supervision at this time, with the lessons learned from the past few years. A few years ago, we saw a cabinet response to the WRR report Controlling public interests. It said: we are going to evaluate, even when it comes to the capacity of inspections and so on. I would very much like to have the undertaking that we will be informed about this. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the concepts of "wide prosperity" and "sustainable development goals." I am using it as an extension of each other, in fact just as the Council of State did in its opinion. That opinion also includes this point, so let's really take this into account in the annual planning cycle of parliament and cabinet. I know that the Prime Minister is now thinking about this and coming up with an answer. Nevertheless, we have again formulated the question of the Labour Party and the Christian Union which has sounded in this debate in the form of a motion, but we are, of course, waiting for the Prime Minister's reply. If that helps us further, we can withdraw that motion. I'm filing the motion now. The President shall: Mr Kuiper, Mr Sent, Mr Postema, Mr Nooren, Mr Vlietstra and Mr Ester proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, as from the current parliamentary year, the Social and Cultural Planning Office (SCP) and the Environmental Planning Office (PBL) will publish their reflections in parallel with the Macro Economic Recognition;]] [[noting that the Council of State advises to consider the envisaged (long-term) policy on the extent to which it contributes to broad prosperity, and to do so annually on the occasion of the General Political Reviews;]] [[calls on the Government to present the Council of State's opinion asking for a forward-looking reflection on how the government is moving towards the objective of broad prosperity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u218	Thank you, Mr. Kuiper. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman. You have two minutes, Mr. Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u219	Thank you, Mr President. The Prime Minister looked very surprised when I told him that he had consulted with Jack Ma of Alibaba. He didn't remember. Jack Ma of Alibaba was at the Tower. Anyway, when Mrs Merkel had been to the Tower, she didn't remember either. Haven't seen you in a while! Turns out that wasn't so bad. Anyway, apparently it's in the area. Jack Ma wants to build a distribution centre of 380.000 m, not in Lelystad but in Maastricht. Lelystad is in that text, with 155,000 m. If you have such conversations, just share it with us. Oh, that's so nice. Then there's self-regulation and barn fires. I have here a cartoon of Tom Janssen in Trouw. You can see a LTO representative with a fire sprayer that's after a smoking pigsty. That fire extinguisher does not come from water, but all kinds of words come from it: we have much to do, we have discussions with the sector, we have consultations with the Animal Protection Committee. That's actually not an effective way. So I would like to ask whether the cabinet really wants to come up with its own action plan, to make sure that the 1.5 million animals that have died in the last five years did not die in vain, but that something is being done from the government. As far as the Crown Domain is concerned, the Prime Minister has indicated that he knows no evil about the Prince and that the King and the Prime Minister always say the same thing. I'd be careful with that, because I've heard the king's wife give a qualification for what he said. I wouldn't want the Prime Minister to get that same qualification. Then about externalities. The Prime Minister indicated that he didn't really know what externalities were. That's too bad, because there's a lot of money to get there. The IMF has calculated that we emit 175 million CO here in the Netherlands, and that in terms of externalities, that is, the costs we all bear for this, is roughly 22 billion a year. That is eleven times more revenue for the cabinet than the dividend tax would have cost. So it's definitely worth it. So I'm giving it to you by way of a motion. At the moment when you map these externalities and manage to attach a tax base to them, you have far less financial concerns than you currently have. So maybe you can take advantage of this. The President shall: Mr Koffeman, Mr Van Leeuwen, Mr Strik, Mr Kox, Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Nagel proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the polluter pays principle is reasonable for a fair distribution of the costs of climate policy;]] [[Whereas climate damage drivers will be most encouraged to reduce activities causing climate damage through a direct withholding charge for externalities caused by them;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the costs of climate damage in the ten major sectors and activities currently being borne by society in order to achieve a climate-inclusive cost of products and services and a policy that takes those costs into account at source,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u220	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u221	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. I give the floor to Mr Schalk. You have one minute, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u222	Thank you, Madam President. It's top-notch, I understand. I'm going through my four core values and I'm going to make one comment on all four. Balance in care and work. As far as one earner is concerned, we didn't come out entirely. This is being continued in the General Financial Reviews. The second theme is a healthy business environment. The internet consultation about the law freedom of choice opening hours is beautifully timed. Today it is open for the first time. Thank you for that. The third issue is security and peace. The NATO standard is being worked towards in 2024. That means the Prime Minister is going to take care of a national plan. Can he indicate the time limit for that? The final theme is respect for life and awe of death. Then I come to reducing abortion. In 2019 we will see figures. My first question is: has an objective been formulated? The second question is: what if it doesn't work? I have a few seconds left to ask for the Prime Minister's commitment to give an overview of the committees. Then, of course, I shall continue to wish the Cabinet God's indispensable blessing for the coming period. I advise the rulers to make a round around the fountain to see what's in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u223	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mr Nagel. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u224	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister has not discussed how pensioners have deteriorated according to the extensive Nibud investigation. He has no sense of what these people have experienced over the past ten years. But with Merkelian fatigue the matter is over with the remark that it is not a matter for the government. It is, of course, a political matter. Think about the math room. That is why 50PLUS has also tabled an own-initiative proposal. I can invite 50PLUS in the Lower House to continue the fight with a second initiative proposal to extend the five-year assessment period. There was also very light talk about the 4.5 billion in pension money crossing the border. I don't understand. We maintain our view of AOW holiday money, but it is indeed a technical matter, not something to deal with now in two minutes. Soon we'll have the Financial Reviews. Then we'll come back to this case in great detail. We have heard very well from the Prime Minister that pensioners will also benefit 96% next year. That's what we want to see. That's what we want to see. That will be one of the arguments for voting against the motion of censure, because we want this cabinet to stay for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u225	Thank you, Mr. Nagel. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve. You also have two minutes, Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u226	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. He was very understanding in a lot of things. I have a few comments to make. The discussion about the location climate resonated with me. I agree with the Prime Minister's approach: standstill means decline. But what we need is, above all, improvement. That's how I understood his answer. Mrs Jorritsma was a little more one-dimensional in that, because she said: we need economic growth. That seemed a little ideologically determined to me. It depends on what you mean by "economic growth." We do need some improvement. That means that we have to take our circumstances into account. We're a small country with a limited population. It is not a very small but ultimately a limited population. We don't want the country to be completely full of homes and roads. We don't need more jobs than we have people. In many sectors we notice that we are running against the limits of this. For example, we do not want the number of flight movements at Schiphol Airport to be increased indefinitely, because that gives too many nasty effects. In other words, the balancing of what is needed for improvements in this country and what is undesirable because it has too many negative effects is a difficult consideration. It is not only possible to approach it with a straightforward statement: we always need economic growth. The Prime Minister's reasoning is: we must do more to promote the climate of establishment than the countries around us, because we are small and have a small marketing area and those others are large. I must say that this argument no longer seems to me to be very useful within the European Union. We also have a very good locational climate in terms of location and development.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u227	Your time is up, Mr. Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u228	Then I'll quit, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u229	Thank you. I'm gonna ask the Prime Minister if he can answer right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u230	I'm gonna need 10 minutes, because a lot of questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u231	It's now 5:11. We're suspending the meeting until 11:05.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u232	The next item is the continuation of the General Political Reviews. I give the floor to the Prime Minister for the second term of office on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u233	Mr President, thank you for that. I shall begin by answering a number of questions and then deal with the motions. They're old and new questions. There was another question that I had to negotiate with Mr Kox about the revenues from the widening of the Vpb base and how they relate to the lower income from the reduction of the Vpb tariff. The extension of the base leads to a structural increase of 3.6 billion extra revenue. The tariff reduction leads to a structural 4.2 billion less revenue. On balance, this represents about 0.5 billion less VPB revenues. The cabinet, of course, is pursuing an en-en-en policy, I have already explained, including the public sector, which is an investment of EUR 6 billion for reducing the burden on citizens, EUR 2 billion for reducing the burden in 2019, EUR 2 billion for putting public finances in order. We also want, of course, to ensure that companies in the Netherlands have a good investment climate. That is what we consider to be a balanced policy in conjunction with each other. That is about the exact figures, but on balance there is indeed a reduction in charges of about 0.5 billion. Then there is Mr Kox's second question. To what extent is there still public confidence in politics and government? How should the debate be conducted? I think that is an important subject. We have, of course, already discussed this with each other in the first term. What are the options for action? I think we should always look for opportunities to raise this issue. In itself, a good opportunity is again the cabinet position on the opinion of the Remkes State Commission. That will also be a moment when we need to look again at how our system works. This is expected at the end of this year. This is such an important subject: that will naturally be expected at other times and will return unexpectedly. Then there is Mrs Jorritsma's question about the pension file. Any sign of an outcome yet? As you know, the government has an ambitious package in the government agreement for the renewal and future-proofing of the pension system. There are talks going on right now, and I wouldn't want to interrupt that process by saying too much about it. Actually, I'd like to leave it at that. As you know, we attach importance to the modernisation of the pension system. This must be done step by step with the social partners. That takes care. In fact, I have not answered anything, but it is true that everything I say about it does not promote the right outcome, because, of course, the conversations are still going on. The same applies to speculating about what you're doing now if you don't get out with the social partners. They also listen and think: oh, that's nice, it can be done without us. Or they're thinking: hey, that's annoying, they're gonna do it without us or they're not gonna do it. So all these variants do not help with the outcome. Anyway, as soon as we get out, we'll call it in. Then there is the report on the social minimum for the BES islands. This, and the timetable to be followed, was discussed with the Chamber by the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and the Secretary of State for the Interior. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs has written and verbally appointed how to organise the steps towards a social minimum, including raising child benefit, as early as 1 January 2019. In this context, it also envisaged the measure for 2020. There really is a technical problem here, namely that different elements and information are needed to establish a minimum social level. They need to be phased out, because it is a far-reaching decision. First of all, we want to reduce the gap between revenue and costs. We believe that the crossing of the timetable outlined by the Secretary of State will ultimately lead to carelessness, with all the risks this entails for those involved, employment and the economic development of the islands. This reality must fit in with the measures. It's not quivering. There is still too much uncertainty as to where we stand at the moment. We're working here. I believe that we are in complete agreement on the objective, but there is genuine concern if we rush into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u234	You should never do rush work, but we are talking about a 2016 motion that was adopted here. This motion comes at the earliest in the next phase in the summer of 2019. Then we're three years away. We can't call that overhasty, can we? The government just needs to speed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u235	It's not a question of how much speed we're going. Take the rent on those islands, for example. I was just talking to Van Ark about it during the break and asked her to explain where the problem is: they want to be quick, why can't we go faster? She's convinced me in a few minutes that this has to be careful. We are at the point of rent alone with a difference between €0 and €900. That's the width. It's gotta vibrate. We really need to know exactly what's going on. So we're gonna do something. It's not like we're doing nothing. In the meantime, the child benefit will be increased on 1 January and we will take other measures, which I also outlined in the first term. I'm afraid she's right, but I'm not an arbitrator here. So it's not a matter of not wanting to rush. Then about the National Program Groningen, the 1.15 billion. We're facing a big task there. I've already outlined what we're doing. This amount shall also be supplemented, where possible, by co-financing. It's a big investment. Mr Engels asked about the follow-up. This is already addressed in the start-up document. An evaluation will take place after four years and, where necessary, a review of the programme will also take place. Then we will also see what the experiences and results are and we will make new agreements. We take it one step at a time, in good consultation with the region. That means if we need to go looking for extra money. It's just not like we're promising that extra money right now. But if, on the basis of that evaluation, it would appear that more is needed, then of course we will just see how we fit it in. Then there is the parliamentary system and its rethinking. Are we taking the work of the state committee seriously? We take that very seriously. That is why we are not taking an advance on the substantive discussion that will follow the opinion. The committee must now be able to do its job undisturbed. We will be very serious about that. The committee has already been set up by the previous cabinet and this cabinet has taken it upon itself. I also fully agree with Mr Engels that there is a need to rethink certain aspects of our state system, which was to rethink his personal question to me, which does not mean that I have always said that we, as politicians, should ultimately have talks on the soapbox regardless of the system and solve the problems in the country. But of course, the context in which you do so, the parliamentary system, is also relevant, with everything related, such as elections and referendums or no referendums. The committee will undoubtedly discuss many of these aspects, including the question of how to complete the constitutional change. However, the urgency is felt very strongly with us and also with me personally. Enforcement and supervision in the Netherlands, the state-wide vision. That was requested by Mr Kuiper. On 5 September, Mr Kuiper referred to Mr Blok, the then Minister for Housing and the National Service, in my opinion, sent a letter on the functioning of the national inspections. He also gave an overall picture of the inspections. In the past, the cabinet has focused on improving the effectiveness and effectiveness of supervision. The aim was also to cluster state inspections, strengthen and standardise the independent positioning of state inspections and further cooperation. This was reported by the cabinet in the Annual Report Rijk in 2017. I can promise that the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations in the next Annual Report on the Business of Business will reflect the latest state of affairs and will also involve the debate we have had here. Mr Koffeman asked about fire prevention. On this point, I would like to repeat what I said in the first place, namely that the Minister of LNV, together with the Minister of BZK, is investigating the financial and practical consequences when further requirements are imposed on fire safety in existing stables. That investigation is almost complete and on the follow-up steps the Minister of LNV will soon communicate. So it's not like we don't want anything there. This remark is additional to what I said in the first term about what the Animal Protection, Fire Weather Netherlands, et cetera, et cetera are doing to draw up the action plan on fire-proof livestock stables 2018-2022. Then I would like to ask Mr Schalk whether he can agree, in relation to those committees, that I ask colleagues in the Cabinet to include this in their budgets when drawing up the 2019 Princess Day papers, so that we always give an overview of everyone's policy areas of which ad hoc committees are working. Otherwise I will have to go and collect it with ten or fifteen officials. This way, I'll put it wide on the team again. You see, I do that smartly. I see Mr Schalk nodding yes. Then there is the question of whether an objective has been set to reduce the number of abortions. There is no specific objective, but the stake is to prevent accidental pregnancies in general and repeated pregnancy termination in particular. Of course, the low abortion rates I have already outlined do not alter the fact that it can always be done better. I have mentioned better information and choice help to prevent accidental pregnancy in general and thus repeated termination of pregnancy in particular. What we want here is less than that, but it is not possible to put a figure on it. Then the NATO standard. By the end of this year, all all allies will present a national plan on how they will implement the commitments made at the NATO summit in 2014. The Netherlands will also submit a plan to NATO by 31 December this year at the latest. That plan will also be sent to the Chamber at the end of December. Mr Nagel drew attention to the fact that older people do not dare to attend because they cannot count on a seat. Should young people stand up for 70-plussers? Mr Nagel refers here to a mass media awareness campaign. To be honest, it is questionable whether such a means is the most effective instrument in this case for achieving the desired change in behaviour among the target group. I think it should just be a standard that you stand up for an older person. I think that's what happens in most cases. I also think that we should just talk to each other about that. We can start a P.O. Box 51 campaign, but I think we should just talk to each other if that doesn't happen. Then let me just call to the Netherlands: if you're on the bus and there's some clerk sitting there when an older lady should be sitting there, you'll say to the boy "stand up, the lady must be sitting here." I think that's how we should handle it in this country, and we shouldn't do everything with campaigns. Of course, parents have a role in education here. Guys, let's keep some things simple, too. But I very much agree with Mr Nagel that this should be done. This also reminds me a bit of that beautiful book by De Tocqueville about democracy in America. There's a tree falling down and the peasants come out and saw that tree gone. Then he's back in France. A tree falls over and they all run to mayor: a tree has fallen over. Maybe we should get a little more American in this. Then there's the motions. Firstly, Mrs Faber's motion on letter A, on no residence permit for Syrians. I have already outlined in the first term that Foreign Affairs is working here on the basis of objective general messages of office and of course we are not politicising. So I'm gonna dissuade that motion. Then there's the motion to letter "B," about giving up trust in the government. After a long period of hesitation, I advise against it. That was a joke. Then there is the motion on letter C, on the reduction target for children in poverty. I'd like to say a few things about this. I said something about this in the first place. This is essential for me, for the cabinet, for all of us. The point is that in a civilized country with a well-run economy, you don't want children to grow up in poverty. You can never completely, 100%, guarantee that that won't happen. There can always be families in which people get into trouble by making debts and sometimes are not reached by the aid agencies. There are also people who don't ask for help. All of that can happen. Then you have to do your best as a society, including social services, to reach out to the people anyway. We have arranged it in the Netherlands so that even if you are in serious debt you can never fall below 95% of the welfare standard. So it should not be possible for people to be in those serious debts. I therefore agree that a reduction target should be reached as soon as possible. The cabinet is busy and wants to inform the Chamber at the beginning of 2019 about the outcome of the reconnaissance by the SCP, the CBP and the CBS. Then we'll see if it's possible to quickly achieve a reduction target. This is also done in consultation with the VNG. But I cannot now commit on behalf of the cabinet that it will be there at the beginning of 2019, because then I have to anticipate the results of the exploration. We just need to see how we can achieve such a clear reduction target. But I want to make it clear here that there is no doubt that we are actually implementing the previous motion that has already been tabled. Perhaps some say that we are not going to apologize soon enough than we are going to, but we are going to carry out that motion. Also motivated: we are really working on that. My thought would then be to say formally here: I advise against the motion, because we are carrying out the previous motion. But let us lay down here the conviction from the cabinet that we are very aware of the importance of the matter that is going on here and that we fully support it. Then motion D, on the position of vulnerablezzp'ers. I have already stressed that we share with you that we must protect the position of vulnerablezzp'ers. It's a complicated subject. We're going to send a letter to the Chamber as soon as possible, this year, with an update. But I cannot anticipate the results right now, because we really have some major technical problems here that we want to solve. This means that I must now discourage this motion, but I would like to say to the authors that we are doing our utmost to organise it as quickly as possible. Then we must secure the motion on climate justice in the climate agreement. The cabinet aims to ensure a balanced burden-sharing between citizens and between citizens and businesses. This burden-sharing between citizens is assessed on the basis of purchasing power development. In doing so, the cabinet looks at purchasing power development and takes account of overall policy. Unbalanced development through climate policy can also be compensated outside the climate domain, for example in a tax policy. Balanced burden sharing between citizens and businesses is not necessarily a proportionate burden sharing by energy use. Too heavy a burden on energy-intensive industries leads to the relocation of these activities abroad, for example to countries where these activities are carried out with less energy efficiency. This will benefit neither the climate nor Dutch society. So where I think we agree on a lot of things in this motion, I still think that I should discourage her, as she is now lying there and with the request that is made. Then there are the SDGs and the role they can play in a budget cycle. We can carry out this wish. We also fully understand the desire of different parties to approach the issue from a broader concept of prosperity and to involve the SDGs. After all, finance and the economy are not the only criteria for setting up the country. The CBS annually makes the monitors on SDGs and broad prosperity. The monitor on the SDGs establishes the relationship with the sustainable development goals. In addition, at the request of the House of Representatives, a monitor has been made on the development of broad prosperity. There is, of course, a large overlap between the CBS publications about the SDGs and the Monitor Brede Welvaart. We will therefore explore with the CBS how to put these things together. That is what we really want to achieve next year. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Bij de bredere besluitvorming hebben de Monitor Brede Welvaart en de monitor over de SDG's grote meerwaarde door de aandachtspunten voor Nederland te tonen en afwegingen tussen verschillende aspecten van welvaart inzichtelijk te maken.]] This can be discussed both in the General Political Reviews and in the discussion of the departmental budget. The Monitor Brede Welvaart and the SDG report are published annually in the spring with the cabinet response, so that they can play a role in the Responsibility debate. That also makes sense, because it concerns statistics which, by definition, look back. Of course, the APB and the budget and Millions note are looking ahead. The ex ante mapping of quantitative impacts of policies on the SDGs and broad prosperity seems to us to be a bridge too far. So we are now thinking more of the accountability cycle than of the budget cycle. They can play a role in policy development and legislation in individual areas. To this end, the comprehensive balancing framework used by the Cabinet in policy development and legislation will be adapted accordingly. The Monitor Brede Welvaart is also available as a source of information for the cabinet formation. That is where the departmental budgets are looked at and policies determined for a longer period of time. The monitor helps to formulate political priorities thanks to an understanding of societal issues. I see this as an encouragement to continue with this and to see how we can at least integrate these two aspects in 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u236	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. As far as the involvement in the General Political Reviews is concerned, we were therefore concerned about a reflection, not to go through and check all these indicators again. It was indeed about how it is integrated into the policy. You have made a commitment to this, so that it can also be involved in the General Political Reviews by the Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u237	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u238	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u239	Then, of course, I have another judgment to make. I think that's how I carried out the motion "F" and so I can dissuade her. Anyway, how that works here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u240	I would like to ask a question about the motion on the proportional distribution of charges. I hear the Prime Minister say: we support the motion for a very large part; only that point of proportionate burden-sharing towards consumption could lead to emissions taking place elsewhere. It can have certain unexpected consequences for business. But I understood from the Prime Minister that he is going to take all these concrete measures. Then there's a choice. Either you let that burden fall on the citizens or on the business community. The motion calls for this burden-sharing to be proportionate to consumption between large consumers and citizens. If the Prime Minister does not want to place it with the big consumers, it will end up with the citizens. Isn't that what the Prime Minister wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u241	The burden on large consumers will also be borne by citizens. Eventually, everything's gonna be overloaded. But my point is this. There is much good in this motion, but we are also in the middle of the climate agreement process. If this motion were to be adopted or if we as a cabinet were to say that we were to take over her, then I would take it literally as well what it says in the operative part. This is in detail: proportional burden-sharing of income for citizens. Of course, we always look at the purchasing power effects. Anyway, we're gonna do that. And: the proportional burden-sharing by consumption between large industrial consumers and citizens. Maybe we'll figure it out. As far as we are concerned, the motion is also a point of attention when drawing up the climate agreement. But then I'd say, "Keep her on." I don't really know if that form exists here in the First Chamber, but maybe that's a thought. But if Mrs Strik is asking me for a ruling now, then I cannot help but dissuade her, because I find the motion really untimely right now. I would also like to give the whole process with the climate tables a chance. I don't want another extra... The motion will swirl in there. "What does it say and what did Rutte say about it? What is this?" It's pretty complicated at those tables. So I'd say, "Let's arrest her for a second."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u242	Mrs Strik, I do not want any further discussion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u243	No, Mr. Chairman. But I understand that the Prime Minister takes it as an incentive to apply the principles that the cabinet already has.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u244	The operative part is very well-framed, but we support the idea that you are trying to balance proportionality, purchasing power effects, larger business and citizens. Then the motion under G. It calls on the government to identify the climate damage caused by the ten largest sectors and activities. I don't see any sense in that. In the government's juice appreciation of the proposal for the broad lines of the climate agreement, we have clearly stated the desire for a balance to be struck in the instrument mix and also for pricing. It is now, of course, up to the parties at the tables to come up with good proposals. A socially optimal climate policy requires a balanced package of measures. If prices lead to the departure of certain industries to the overseas with lower energy efficiency, neither the climate nor Dutch society will benefit. Although I am initially less enthusiastic about this motion than Mrs Strik's previous one, I would really like to advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u245	One interruption, Mr. Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u246	I'm gonna try to make a sentence out of that. The Prime Minister notes with us that the boat is leaking, but he doesn't want to know where the leaks are. Because there's nothing in the motion but "let's see what the ten biggest causes of CO emissions are." I have indicated that 22 billion could rise above it. I don't quite understand what the Prime Minister means by: yes, I don't see much in it. Doesn't he want the 22 billion, doesn't he want to know where CO emissions are at the biggest cause, in which sectors? What's the reason he's dissuading the motion? That's not quite clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u247	But surely it is not Mr Koffeman's intention to increase the burden by 22 billion in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u248	No, that's not what the motion is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u249	Mr. Koffeman, I don't want any further discussion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u250	Sorry. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u251	Mr. Kox has something else to say. One interruption, too, Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u252	Mr. Chairman. I listened carefully to the Prime Minister's response, advised by the Secretary of State, to the motion on child poverty reduction targets. If the signal has come across that it really has to be now, now that we're a year ahead, then I suggest we hold the motion. Then we'll move on to that at the beginning of next year. I have consulted the co-subscribers, so that is the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u253	At the request of Mr Kox, I propose that his motion (35000, letter C) be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u254	Finally, here's what I'm gonna do. Our seasons change half-yearly, but Chamber and Cabinet set the clock every year on autumn for these General Political Reviews in this house, always around reform day and halloween. Many different topics have been discussed today: from climate to retirement, from safety to care. The country is not finished and many, even when it is good for them, worry about the future of our prosperity and our society. This is also evident in today's debate. What also turned out is that developments abroad contribute to this. Many speakers, including Mr Brinkman, Mr Kuiper and Mr Kox and Mrs Jorritsma, have rightly drawn attention to this. Our country is not an island. Next year, it's 100 years since the First World War ended. This will be commemorated in Paris on 11 November. After 1918 followed a turbulent peace that eventually...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u255	You said "next year"? But that's still...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u256	Next máánd it's been 100 years. On November 11th this year it is 100 years ago. After 1918 a turbulent peace followed, which eventually led to the Second World War. The Netherlands then retired from neutrality, joined the UN, which we have had today and NATO, and became one of the founding fathers of the European Union. For a country like the Netherlands, international legal order and international cooperation are essential, both at the heart of our security and our economy. I can tell you, Mr President, that the cabinet will continue to make a firm commitment to this, even in the future. These General Reviews nevertheless inevitably also have a special character. That has already been mentioned here and there, because after the upcoming elections in the summer of 2019 a new First Chamber will be set up. Some speakers announced their departure after years of membership of this Chamber. And maybe more will follow. I would like to thank them all here through you for their ever fascinating contributions, in these general considerations in this house. Perhaps, as Mrs Strik said, we will meet in this composition, which may also apply to myself, even before the new elections to the First Chamber take place. That thanks also apply to you in a very specific way, Mr President. It does not generally fit in with our political relations that the cabinet gives an opinion on a member, let alone the President, of a Chamber of the States General. But I want to make an exception to that, because state law lives, doesn't it? And we add new pages to that every day. So I'm gonna do that now. I would like to say here and now also for the Acts that you have always managed this and the previous General Opinions as President in an excellent way and that you have corrected young Vice-Presidents if they talked too much in between and certainly if they distracted the Prime Minister, although I sometimes distracted the Vice-Presidents. And that's what I'm saying on behalf of the entire cabinet. My firm impression is that this is also in line with a very broad appreciation of your functioning in this Chamber. In short, big class.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u257	And with that from my end message.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u258	Thank you. We need to vote on a number of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u259	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the applicant, Mr Sent, I would like to say that the motion is withdrawn under letter F, in view of the Prime Minister's commitments. So it doesn't have to be part of the debate anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u260	Since the Kuiper c.s. motion (' point ) has been withdrawn, it shall no longer be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u261	But anyway, I'll close the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote. I propose, unless there is no need for that, which would be nice, to suspend a maximum of fifteen minutes for consultation. Five minutes only? Well, I suggest we suspend until quarter to twelve. Do you like that? I want to be able to end this sitting on 30 October, if it is possible to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u262	Mr. Chairman. Perhaps I can shorten the time by stating that I wish to continue the motion under letter E on behalf of the other petitioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u263	At Mrs Strik's request, I propose that her motion be retained (35000, letter E). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-7.u264	I understand no one wants suspension. That's fantastic. We'll vote. I'm fine with it. Just to be clear, the motion 35000, letter C, the motion of the member Kox, has been held. The motion 35000, letter E, the motion of the member Strike, has been held. So we're not voting on that. Motion 35000, letter F, motion of Members Kuiper and Sent, has been withdrawn. In short, we are about to vote on the motions under letter B, then on those under letter A, then on the motion under letter D and the motion under letter G. We shall therefore vote on four motions for resolutions. We shall now proceed to vote on the motion on the withdrawal of trust in the government, Mr Faber's motion under the letter B. The vote happens when you sit down and get up. Will the Members who are in favour of the motion... Mr. Kox? What's wrong? What's wrong? I'm sorry, you want to have an explanation of vote. I'm trying to be ready by noon. I am so disturbed by the Prime Minister's praise. Go ahead, Mr. Kox.
