ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the debate in plenary on the proposal for a regulation on financial supervision. Several speakers have come forward. The proposed speaking time is between four and six minutes. As the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, I give the floor to Mr Alkaya of the SP. He signed up for four minutes. You never have to stick strictly to that, but it is a fine directive for us. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister has pissed off the financial sector and the SP likes to see that. A joint letter from the banks and insurers to all members of the House of Representatives states: "We are concerned about the limited possibilities to reduce the rising supervisory costs." The financial sector denounces the lack of checks-and-balances, they say, which means that it has lost more money to the control of De Nederlandsche Bank and the Dutch Financial Markets Authority. Suddenly the financial boys are concerned about "the undesirable erosion of the controlling task of the House of Representatives." I thought, if the fox preaches passion, burp your geese. The problem is the risky behaviour of the financial boys and not their supervision. The problem is the huge bonuses at the banks and not the costs of the supervisors. The problem is that all our savings are still managed by a sector driven by greed and that has changed little in recent years since the crisis. Today we are discussing a new law to fund financial supervision. This law will also not change much in the sector, but it contains some seemingly small and logical changes. For example, a number of cases are removed from the law and moved to the more flexible form of lower regulation. This is sensible in a sector in which much can change quickly. Think of rules from Europe or social wishes. I will, however, support the D66 and VVD amendments in order to ensure that supervision is not reduced. They were just ahead of me with this amendment. The combination of funding for supervision, which is currently being done by the sector itself, and placing the laws and regulations on it at a greater distance from the House of Representatives, is precisely what my group is responding to the opposite of that of the financial sector, namely that this should not lead to less supervision and higher pressure on the costs of supervision of the financial sector. I would like the Minister to confirm that this is not the case. I also have a question. Does the Minister still intend to evaluate the line taken, the main line that the sector finances its own supervision, after five years as is customary in policy? Furthermore, the financial sector writes: "The constantly increasing supervisory costs are undesirable because they ultimately lead to higher costs for consumers." That's quite a statement from a sector known for its millions of bonuses and the towering differences between top salaries and the workplace. Like the money wouldn't be anywhere else to get than the customers. Does the Minister agree with me that higher supervisory costs should not ultimately lead to higher costs for the clients of the financial sector? Does he have any insight into the possibilities of stopping this? Finally, we wonder whether the current funding scheme offers enough opportunities for supervisors to invest in new techniques and experiments. The Minister acknowledges the importance of digital innovation in financial supervision, but he says that regulators should reprioritize within the current cost framework in order to focus more on this. As a committee, we also spoke with De Nederlandsche Bank about his experiments on this point. Is the Minister also really convinced that regulators can keep up with developments with the resources they now have? Things are changing in the sector. From mobile banking to crowdfunding, from PSD2 to bitcoins and other cryptocurrency, it all comes down to regulators. It is important for society that regulators do not lag behind market facts, but that they know exactly what is going on and have the knowledge to deal with these developments. Prevention for a crisis is still better than strict supervision after a crisis. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Ronnes of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The CDA, through my illustrious predecessor Frans de Nerée to Babberich, has always been concerned about the considerable increase in supervisory burdens. He always saw the regulators as self-riding baking flour: once the right ingredients are kneaded, it just seems to become bigger and bigger, leading to high costs. My predecessor had a point here, but honesty requires that something has changed since his time, namely the financial crisis. Since then it has not been the supervisor, but the politics that imposed rule after rule on the financial sector. Quite rightly, of course. The CDA has always fully supported this regulation. The rise of the baking flour was therefore due to the addition of an additional ingredient. But things have changed. For a few years, the costs of supervision have been borne by the sector itself rather than by the public authorities. This, too, is a logical consequence of the financial crisis. However, this gives politics a special responsibility. If we are to impose political costs on society, in this case on business, we must ensure that these costs do not rise. Good supervision costs money You shouldn't run away from that, but that shouldn't mean that this is a blank cheque. The law we are discussing today provides for the Court to be informed if the cost framework is higher than agreed, for example by adding new tasks. Informing the Chamber is a good thing, but since it is about adding new tasks to the supervisory package, a stronger control for the Chamber might be desirable. Can the Minister state what would be against the active involvement of the Chamber in the event of a higher cost framework? Together with VVD, D66 and ChristenUnion, we have prepared two amendments to ensure the position of the Lower House by means of a light suspension procedure. Then on the definition of the supervisory burden to be passed on. This is now fairly general in the law. That could have undesirable consequences. Earlier we were confronted with the situation at the AFM, which had a setback of almost a million euros due to the change of pension provider. These costs were passed on to the companies to which the AFM supervises. That's weird, of course. It would be better if the AFM were at the bar for this kind of thing itself and solved it internally. In any case, it is strange that the financial regulator itself is faced with this kind of financial setback. On previous questions from us, the Minister has indicated that he has made arrangements with the AFM to prevent this kind of setback in the future. Can the Minister indicate exactly what agreements this is? We are not yet convinced that a setback, as with the AFM employees' own pension, will not be passed on to companies in the future. Finally, Mr President. Now that the financial sector itself is paying for its own supervision, something could in the longer term sneak into the system of 'whose bread one eats, his word one speaks'. Isn't the relationship between supervisor and the sector getting too close? We do not have any signs of this at the moment, but it cannot be ruled out in the longer term. That is why it seems appropriate to evaluate the law in a few years' time and to include this point in that evaluation. We propose that an evaluation be established in the form of an amendment. That's what we do with the VVD. Thank you. This was my first term, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u5	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Former FBI director James Comey gave us all a wise lesson when he took office in 2013. He argued that it's even important for the FBI never to get rid of supervision and accountability. He warned his agents of the dangers of falling for his own sense of righteousness. Ironically, Comey would die later, precisely because of his supervision of Trump, but it doesn't make his wise words any less true. That advice might as well apply to the financial sector, as far as we are concerned, including the regulator himself. Because also a supervisor has a supervisor. An authority to which financial undertakings must be accountable must also be accountable. That is also why we, together with the 'conspicious' company of VVD, CDA and Christian Union, want to amend this bill on one point. I will come back to that in a moment, because let me first mention why we are particularly positive about the legislative proposal. After all, it means more flexibility for the supervisor, and that is good. It makes supervision future-proof, rewarding innovation and cost savings instead of penalising them. As far as we are concerned, the financial sector should pay for this, because good supervision is not only good for society and consumers, but also for the sector itself. It avoids avoidable errors of a party that undermines confidence in a financial product or throughout the system and improves the reputation of financial institutions, which means that people want to put their trust and their unimportant money into financial products. This is called "the system record." During the financial crisis, D66 also called for our watchdogs to be strengthened. DNB and AFM have taken on their new tasks well, as Mr Ronnes rightly said: with a lot of extra money too. That is not our opinion or that of the supervisor himself or of the responsible minister but of the International Monetary Fund in its assessment in 2017 of the stability of the financial system. The IMF is usually not very complimentary, but believes that increased supervision has led to many shortcomings in our financial system being remedied. We should be proud of this appreciation. Mr. Chairman. Looking at the dynamics of the financial sector, we also see why this flexibility of this bill is so important, because where online banks, fintechs and cryptocurrency are setting up, regulators are getting new agents and new movements in the market every month. But existing institutions are also constantly developing new products in response to this growing competition. That is why we are also in favour of the cost framework. This enables AFM and DNB to operate faster and more efficiently. Savings are no longer at the expense of the following year's budget. But of course there are limits to this, namely the framework itself. As we have said, we would like that flexibility. That is why we would like to ask the Minister if he thinks that the cost framework is wide enough to also accommodate large cost savings without negative consequences in the following year. In other words, if savings are made so much that it is outside the cost framework, doesn't that mean the wrong incentive? Mr. Chairman. Flexibility is a good thing, but it is a question of transparency. As far as we are concerned, it is important for this Chamber but for everyone that it is clear what monitoring is being carried out, what actions have been taken and how much supervision costs per act. Financial institutions have indicated that there is a lack of supervision in this area. For this time, D66 understands their concern. That is why we call for a change in the new system: not a general measure of governance that allows a substantial adjustment of costs without passing through the Chamber, but an automatic involvement that requires accountability from the authority. This is about the principle that the authority is independent, but it is in the knowledge that the government and parliament together keep their finger on the pulse. That is why we have tabled an amendment: flexibility and speed, but not non-committal. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a question. Fines of less than 2.5 million go back to the regulator's budget. On top of that, they're going to the Empire. Now that we're cleaning up undesirable incentives, this divorce stays. We know that the origins lie in a defiscalisation of the financing of supervision and in agreements made on it, but my question concerns logic. This means that the rest of the sector benefits from the bad behaviour of one of the institutions. If supervision is partly paid with fines, the supervisory costs that the whole sector has to pay will be reduced. It's like I'm paying a fine for stealing a hair dryer from the hairdresser, which is why the other customers pay less for their haircuts. This metaphor is not taken out of life, but its purpose is to ask about logic. Can the Minister explain why fines go above a certain level to the State and below an arbitrary border to the sector itself? We'd appreciate a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u7	Thank you. I should like to give the floor to Mr Nijboer. Maybe he'll come back. I'll give him a chance to come in later. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van der Linde of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u8	Mr. Chairman. It's not a crazy idea to take on the current Financial Supervision Act. We are dealing here with the allocation of costs, which is flawed. The distribution is based on previous years. In fact, one bank pays for the costs incurred by the supervisor in the previous year for another bank. It's like sitting in a restaurant and having to pay for what was used at another table last night, because the cash register isn't fully tuned yet. The drinks on the bill therefore appear to be remarkably expensive. That's because the cook's pension has to be repaired. But, assures the waiter, we do have a biennial panel meeting with our regulars on this subject and they support our decision. You understand: we want to modernise the cash register system a little bit and by delegateing the decision-making process to the Minister of Finance, he can adjust the level and distribution of costs to current events. The VVD can accept this, but we are not quite satisfied yet. We could not help it: we used the term'self-driving baking flour' in the report. Of course, I do not forget our own role. Following the credit crisis, supervision has been considerably extended, and we have done so mainly here in the Lower House and with our colleagues in Brussels. Innovations such as PSD2 and cryptocurrency, of course, mean an extension of supervision and international alignment. Nevertheless, I ask the Minister what measures he is taking to control these costs. Can he comment on the comments from the sector as they were in the Financial Journal yesterday? What incentives do regulators have to be sober and economical, including in their job vision? For example, is the AFM there to test investments for sustainability? Are we pleased with the bureaucracy that has been paid out on the settlement of interest rate derivatives for SMEs? We have never put that into the law, but we have included on all sides of the Wft all kinds of open standards that DNB and AFM have enthusiastically implemented with their own regulations and supervision. All kinds of indirect costs will be passed on, but we will not find them in the annual report of DNB as such. What role does the Minister see for himself? Does the Minister also have direct consultation with the sector to keep this pack of flour in the muffler? We also have the supervision of the European Central Bank, the ECB, which, of course, overlaps with that of DNB. That too is being passed on. How do we avoid duplication of costs? Finally, can the Minister comment on unforeseen deviations from the cost framework? The law states that he will inform the Chamber in good time, but what is timely? Is that before or after? It was a conscious choice to tax supervision costs to the sector and the VVD is right behind that. But now that the government is no longer paying off, the critical view of finance has also disappeared. It is therefore of extra importance that the Lower House fills in its controlling task. A structure of biennial panel meetings with the regulars doesn't provide enough checks-and-balances, and complaining out loud in such a dependent position, of course doesn't do that. I have therefore tabled two amendments with my colleagues Mr Paternotte, Mr Ronnes and Mr Bruins, which provide for a light form procedure which will allow us to monitor the speed of action, but to intervene if it makes us crazy. Mr. Chairman. We must keep in mind that the costs of supervision end up in the hands of families and businesses. That is why we simply have the task of ensuring that this is done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u9	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Financial Supervision Finance Act. In general, I believe that as a Chamber, we should be careful to delegate budgetary issues, because this is also a budgetary issue, to lower regulation. However, I have no major objections to this bill. The control of the budget and accountability of the costs of supervision does not change anything compared to the current law, if I understand correctly. It concerns the setting of cost frameworks and the approval of budgets. The whole of the cake is governed by the law itself. The distribution of the cake: how to allocate the costs to categories such as investment firms, insurers, banks and pension funds is delegated to lower regulations. I can imagine that you would like to be able to make timely and flexible adjustments to such a distribution. So I can support this delegation to lower regulation. Another change ensures that not the previous year's budget is taken as a measure, but the cost framework established by finance ministers and SZW. Actually, I have one more question. It is a question that might send a slightly different signal than the questions of the coalition's colleagues. Is the Minister also getting signals that AFM and DNB may not be given sufficient resources to carry out all their tasks and additional tasks? There is a question about the costs that are much higher, but also the supervisory tasks are increasing. Do they have enough money in the end? That signal. Then I have a few specific questions about the distribution of costs. I myself once tried to study an annual report from the AFM and to see exactly how the costs are divided. It is very difficult to get a finger behind that as a Member of Parliament. A first question is, for example, the following. We know that since 2015, supervisory costs have been fully passed on to market players. What role does the taxpayer still have in this? Is there still taxpayers' money in the supervisory framework? It's hard for me to find out. A second is the next one. A law talks about charging individuals. I therefore believe that this is mainly about legal entities, financial companies, but I can easily imagine that there are still individuals who have to deal with the costs of supervision. I can't actually find how many individuals that is. What type of individuals are asset managers who may be individually active as zzp'er and what do they pay to DNB and AFM? A similar type of question may have something more to do with the questions asked by the coalition. A lot of rules have been introduced in recent years. In fact, a great many of the supervisory rules last week, during the hearing, we also had a discussion on this with the regulators, especially aimed at the large parties. That's where the biggest risks are. At the same time, we should not underestimate the fact that smaller parties can also pose risks to consumers. However, it is difficult to understand how the cost sharing is done for large and small players. Do the costs that small players, small businesses or perhaps small innovative companies have to incur to comply with supervision relate to this? I saw that the coalition colleagues have tabled an amendment in order to gain some insight into the cost framework. I can support that, especially if the Minister agrees that it is right that we in the Chamber want to have a better understanding of what is actually going on with this cost-sharing. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u11	Thank you. Mr Nijboer has not yet appeared. This will put an end to the first term of office. I think the Minister would like to suspend for ten minutes. Ten minutes? Twenty minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u12	Ten minutes, please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u13	Ten minutes. I'll suspend for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u14	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister for Finance for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u15	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank Members for the questions they have put. They are very good and also very understandable questions, given the complexity of the subject. I would like to make a few introductory remarks and then talk about supervision in a general sense. Then I will discuss the cost framework and answer a few questions in the category of 'other', and finally I will come to the amendments. But many questions have already gone in that direction, so I will try to give some hints in between to those amendments. Mr. Chairman. The draft law before us deals with the supervisory costs that the financial supervisors are talking about, and the financing of, the AFM and DNB. It is perhaps good to recall that the reason was the five-year review of the distribution of these costs. That's why we're doing this. The current breakdown was established in 2013. At the same time, it was agreed that after five years it would be possible to see whether it would work out well in this way. On the contrary, this agreement should ensure that the costs for a number of years are predictable and that, at the same time, the five-year review does not lead to too much deviation from the actual monitoring effort. That seems perfectly logical to me. In 2017, the distribution of supervisory costs was reviewed. I think Mr Van der Linde referred to that too. At that time, it was also found that the legal set-up as it currently exists still creates problems in parts. That is why we are now coming up with an adaptation and some of the legislation has also been delegated to a lower level. I would like to stress that this is purely a question of cost-sharing and that the control of costs, for example in the context of the cost framework, remains fully regulated in the law. A number of Members were quite right to point this out, including, I believe, Mr Snels. I would also like to point out that, in addition to the new allocation of costs, there is no change in the financing of supervision costs. The sector will continue to carry them in full. Mr. Chairman. One more cluster of introductory remarks on my part. The discussion about the costs of supervision does have a bit of a dilemma. As far as I am concerned, it is also quite right that a number of Members pointed out that the Chamber itself, but perhaps I might say that politics itself, first and second, has been responsible for the increase in costs. Of course, the present and the previous cabinet have participated in this. So I very much agree with those who argue that costs should not be increased, but it is important to highlight, whatever Members have done, that we have always wanted this as a political self. As far as I am concerned, this was really for the right reasons. In that light, I find the term'self-driving baking flour' somewhat vulnerable, because it does give the supervisor a bit of a shortcoming. I think we should really be careful with it. It is my firm belief that the supervisors are doing an excellent job and that they are doing it in all conscience. They're anything but looking for more to do. It is true that politics has wanted regulators to do much more than, for example, ten years ago. This brings me to a number of questions about supervision in the general sense. Mr Alkaya asked me if I would like to evaluate the law after five years. I am going to say a few words about the amendment to item No. 10 but I think an evaluation is wise anyway. I think it is a very understandable question from Mr Alkaya, so I leave it to the Chamber. Mr Alkaya further asked if I wanted to confirm that the law does not lead to less supervision. As far as I am concerned, that is anything but the case. My observation is also that in the Chamber it is 364 days a year about more supervision and that today we have some balance in this discussion, which may be about whether it is too much. If that appearance were to be awakened, I think Mr Alkaya would be there if the chickens were to put a stop to that too. Mr Ronnes asked whether the link between the sector and the supervisor would become too close and asked whether this aspect could be taken into account in the next evaluation. The answer to his first question is no and the answer to his second question is yes. I have no reason to believe that the supervisors would not have sufficient distance. In my view, they do so in an extremely prudent and sensible way, with exactly that distance that you would like and would like to expect. Although there is no reason to assume otherwise, I think it is a good idea to include this in an evaluation in a general sense, because that can be no harm at all. Mr Alkaya asked how to prevent the cost of supervision from reaching customers. That is a very good and logical question. The honest answer is, of course, that you can never completely prevent that. Mr Alkaya himself referred to the money being made in this sector. How companies then make the choice between what they pay out to shareholders in the form of profits or in the form of remuneration to directors or employees and how they pass on costs to customers is up to those companies themselves. So it can also be financed from profits, but it is very complicated to promise here that these costs will not fall on customers in any way. If you compare those jars then I prelude a little bit to Mr Van der Linde's question about what I thought of the letter and you look at the costs of supervision and you sell it against the average entrepreneur's profits, then you're really talking about other quantities. So I don't see any immediate major problems there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u16	However, there is a warning or a threat, as it seems, in the letter from the financial sector addressed to us, that these costs will eventually fall to the consumer, to their customers. There are, of course, possible measures to ban this legally, for example, that if the costs are increased by more than inflation, you should not pay a bonus, but it is questionable whether that would be proportionate. My question to the Minister was whether the various options might have been explored in order to prevent from the government that these costs actually fall to the consumer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u17	That has not been investigated in the seven months that I have been Minister in my knowledge. I have never seen a piece that shows that it has been researched before, but I cannot explain that for all my predecessors here at once. It's a road we shouldn't want to go on either. I understand the concern expressed by Mr Alkaya. In terms of transparency and honesty, I cannot give that guarantee. But again, if you then look at the profits that are made in companies and you try to estimate what a large bank, for example, has lost in supervision... They're really incomparable. In this way, I think, I also appreciate the phrase in that letter from those who felt that they needed to update the Chamber on this matter. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to Mr Ronnes' question. He asked what appointment I made with the AFM to prevent the cost framework from being exceeded again. I think it is good to note that the excess of the cost framework by the AFM in 2017 was occasional in nature. There is also no reason to believe that this will occur structurally. But it is true that we have asked for this on an official basis. But that's what I did myself. Why is that? The responsibility for this lies with the AFM. The AFM then also indicated and agreed on how to control this at least in the future. Administrative measures have therefore been taken. We have simply looked critically at our own budget and also included room for unforeseen costs in the budget. I say to Mr Ronnes that I thought that was a sensible and adequate answer. Then Mr Ronnes asked what was wrong with the active involvement of the Chamber in determining the cost framework. In any case, I will be extremely positive about all the amendments, but in this form there is also what I can imagine from the Chamber. I think it is only logical and sensible that the Chamber should be informed about these matters. Mr Snels van GroenLinks asked whether the cost framework could also indicate how the costs of the parties in the sector would be reduced. He himself said that that division is settled at AMvB. I suspect that his question goes in the same direction as Mr Alkaya's: what about the smaller parties, and what about potentially natural persons versus legal persons? The supervisors really make sure that they work in a proportionate manner here. The choice of whether you want to operate as a self-employed person or as a natural person is obviously up to that company. My impression is that this cost allocation actually goes in a proportionate way. What I cannot entirely rule out, of course, is that it is relatively more expensive occasionally for a small enterprise. I can't totally rule that out. But the distribution of costs is therefore regulated by AMvB. We have the clear impression that all this is happening in a very proportional manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u18	Mr. Snels, you can post your first interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u19	The Minister says: my impression is that it happens proportionally. But my question was actually: can we not understand the distribution of these burdens between large and small players, and also in their development? Then we can think about that a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u20	That's a very logical question. That is the question I asked just now in the suspension. It's not that simple. The last part of the answer I can give to Mr Snels is as follows. We should be able to check again whether it really is not possible to map out what this distribution looks like. That is what Mr Snels wants. It could also lead to a note from me indicating that this is extremely difficult and that I cannot give a good insight into it. Maybe I can make a deal with him so that I can promise him we'll take another look at that. Mr Snels also asked whether the supervisors were receiving sufficient resources. So that's actually the other way around. It is good to point out that I have not received any signals, either official or in my very frequent conversations with the two supervisors themselves, that this would be the case. Mr Paternotte asked what costs were borne by the taxpayer. That's a very small pick. In fact, supervisors receive a public contribution for the supervision of the BES islands. This is about 1.1 million for DNB in 2018 and 0.4 million for the AFM. Then Mr Van der Linde and Mr Ronnes both asked whether I thought this was self-running baking flour. In my view, I have tried to explain why I understand this wording in itself, but I do not think it is entirely in the direction of the supervisors to suggest as if that were the case. I believe that we have chosen, for the right reasons as politicians, I say in full terms, to substantially strengthen supervision and, in any case, I cannot, of course, say anything about what kind of words MPs take in their mouths.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u21	I think it is in place to say that it is not our intention either. I emphasized in my first contribution, in the first period, that it also has to do with the rules that we, as a Chamber, have adopted as a political self. I just wanted to refer to the discussions that have taken place in the past on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u22	Mr. Chairman. Many thanks to Mr Ronnes for his nuance. I think we're just totally in agreement on that. Mr Van der Linde asked how the costs of supervisors are controlled. That is, of course, a very understandable question. It's also a question I asked myself. It has just come across that the budgets of the supervisors have to be approved by my colleague from SZW and by myself and that for that approval we also draw up cost frameworks, and that if those cost frameworks are exceeded, we simply do not approve that budget. Since 2017 there is also a cost framework for both AFM and DNB. That is, I say out of my mind, valid for four years, so that also gives a clear direction. I think I have answered Mr Snel's question about natural persons. Then Mr Alkaya asked whether there is enough room for regulators to keep up with innovation and experiments and whether I am convinced that regulators can keep up with developments with current resources. We have, of course, exchanged more often in various debates here that it is very important to ensure innovation, especially in this sector, and that it then makes demands on the supervisory authorities. It is also the case that both supervisors are working on innovative projects to renew supervision. They are, of course, also meant to operate more effectively, or ideally, or at least more efficiently, within that cost framework. So I am not concerned that there would be too little room in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u23	Just to keep it sharp. I understand that this cost framework is valid for four years, but what I was concerned about is that the Minister can give his own permission to exceed that cost framework. He shall inform the Chamber in good time. The question I had was: does that mean in advance? I'm starting to get the feeling that that's after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u24	Mr. Chairman. If I finish the question now and then I am going to say something sympathetic about the amendments, then it might be that Mr Van der Linde is so reassured that I took this question with me. And if not, we'll find out immediately. Mr Paternotte asked whether Mr Alkaya's cost framework was wide enough to accommodate cost savings in the coming year and whether there could be a wrong incentive. In doing so, I think it is good to highlight that the cost frameworks of both DNB and AFM include a total of 7% by 2020. Of course, it's always a bit of searching if you have exactly the right line here or if you still have to adjust it. My real assessment is that this task does give an incentive to look at efficient management in the meantime. Again, also because the two extremes between us... The Chamber asks me, on the one hand, whether they don't get too much money and, on the other hand, whether they don't get too little money. I don't have any signals from either of them. Then Mr Ronnes asked me whether the calculation of the supervisory costs would be evaluated. The internalisation of supervisory costs in the financial sector is based on the cabinet policy in the 2014 Maat report. In 2017, the Minister of JenV reported to your President of the Chamber that this cabinet policy is still leading. There is currently no provision for an evaluation of the policy of passing on supervisory costs. Then Mr Paternotte asked about the 2.5 million. He took his hair dryer off the stable. When he started talking about the hair dryer, I honestly thought his question would go another way: shouldn't you just stay below 2.5 million instead of helping the other people in the barber shop out of his example? Look, the point is that the amount is based on the costs that regulators incur purely for the imposition of formal measures. That's what that assessment is based on. These costs can be said to be of no benefit to the sector as a whole, since they concern efforts on a number of specific institutions. That, of course, is exactly what it is intended to do. To add an order size: 2.5 million is about the amount that both the AFM and DNB spend on enforcement. These costs are stable. Of course, you can always ask yourself the question: should it go to 2 or should it go to 3? I think the logic has been: let's make the best possible assessment of a given threshold. What you want to avoid is that the supervisors would have an incentive to pick up as much as possible. We sometimes have this discussion in politics. If you were allowed to keep it all yourself, there would be a wrong incentive. In my view, we have tried to strike a good balance between small amounts relating to supervision and, on the other hand, large amounts going to public funds. (NL) Mr President, then I am in favour of the amendments. I shall do it one by one, although the opinion will be the same for each of the amendments, also because of the extremely nuanced form that each of the amendments has adopted, if I may put it that way. That is why I would like to give my opinion on the first amendment, which is No. 7, by Mr Van der Linde, where there are three other petitioners underneath, want to leave to the Chamber. Mr Van der Linde's second amendment, No. Eight, I'd like to leave it to the Chamber. The last amendment, if I am not mistaken, is that of Mr Ronnes and Mr Van der Linde together. They are also mentioned in that order. This is the amendment to item No. 9, that's about the evaluation assessment. I should also like to leave the opinion on this amendment to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u25	For the record, Minister, the motions have been slightly modified, and they have been given a different number.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u26	The amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u27	The amendment in part No. 7 is now No. Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u28	Mr President, I must honestly say that I had already wondered...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u29	It has to do with the signature.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u30	...why we didn't just start at 1, but I'll ask you that question in the break. In any case, I can leave the opinion on the three amendments I have in front of me, which are 7, 8 and 9, to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u31	It concerns the successive numbering of the documents. This numbering has therefore been kept. I understand from the Members that it has to do with signing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u32	I'm learning every day, Mr. Chairman. I think I'm through. Yes, Mr Comey came here to ride the debate, as I think earlier Cicero did. I am curious to see who will be brought into the debate next time under the C. I will speculate on that later with Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u33	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the answer. I look at the members to see if there is a need for a second term. Yes, there is one speaker in the second term. That is Mr Alkaya of the SP Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am satisfied, however, with the answer given by the Minister in the first term, but I would like to continue on a number of points. I am particularly concerned with the evaluation of the whole system, in which supervision is financed by the financial sector itself. On the other hand, this should not lead to less supervision, as I said. My group would be afraid of that in particular. The Minister has said that it is really not the intention. But still the next motion on the evaluation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the financing of financial sector supervision and enforcement is carried out through the private contribution of the sector itself by 2013;]] [[noting that the sector also explicitly finances public tasks such as legislative advice and policy advice as well as DNB's crown membership in the ESC;]] [[considers that a proper assessment should be made of whether, and if so, how, monitoring and enforcement has changed due to the change in funding and the public oversight function;]] [[calls on the Government to explicitly include in the assessment of the change of funding whether and if so how the method of financing has changed the supervision of the financial sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mr Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34870-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u35	Happy, Mr. Chairman! My final point is that the costs should not fall on the consumer. Here too, I am pleased with the attitude taken by the Minister. But still the next motion, on the possible measures that we could take further. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cost of financial supervision is increasing;]] [[noting that the financial sector threatens to pass on these costs and ultimately place them on the consumer's plate;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of not having higher costs of supervision dropped by the consumer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34870-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u36	Mr. Chairman. I've tried to listen carefully. I think I can make the judgment on the Alkaya motion in part No. Leave 13 to the Chamber. However sympathetic the thought may be, the request in the Alkaya motion to item No. 14 about passing on the costs is really a bridge too far. It's a good thing we live in a country where I can't do this. So I really don't want to recommend this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-12.u37	This brings us to the end of the reply and also to the end of this debate. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
