ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u1	We are now going to Oral Question Time. I would like to welcome the Minister of Medical Care. I am looking for Mrs Agema, because it is her turn to ask. We'll wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u2	I now give the floor to Mrs Agema, on behalf of the PVV, for her question on the bankruptcy of the IJsselmeer hospitals and the Slotervaart hospital.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Friday the unthinkable happened: a hospital was shut down acutely. Deadly people have been taken to other hospitals in ambulances. People were crying and devastated on the sidewalk of the hospital. It shows a decay, a poverty that has no match. And the minister calls the hospital a pile of stones. How big can the gap between citizens and politics be? How big is the gap between the people who were devastated in front of the hospital and the drivers, the insurers, the NZa? How big is the rift? And is it still too dense? My question to the Minister is what is the reason for the bankruptcy of the Slotervaart hospital and the IJsselmeer hospitals. Is it the drivers and the owners, Loek Winter and Willem de Boer? Is it from insurance company Silver Cross? Was it the NZa, the Dutch Healthcare Authority, who did not inform the Minister? Was it the inspection? Was there anything wrong with the quality at the Slotervaart hospital, without the hospital being under enhanced supervision? Was it his main agreement? Was there too much savings in hospital care? What is the reason for the hospitals' bankruptcies? How did this poverty, this low point in care, arise? Why did the Minister set up a crisis staff to oversee the bankruptcy, instead of a crisis staff to keep a hospital open? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u4	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I have been in contact with the insurer about the cause of bankruptcy, but let me first say this: both Mrs Agema and many others have been shocked and surprised by the bankruptcy of both hospitals. You'll just be a patient and get the message that you need to be transferred to another hospital. You're only gonna be a co-worker and you're gonna hear it's out of business. What do you do? Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to all the people in the care who have worked so hard over the last few days to transfer patients from the two hospitals to other locations and who have worked so hard to do so. I think it is terrible for the patients and I think it's wonderful of the care workers that they were standing by and standing by to do this. Then about the cause of the bankruptcy. The health insurance company has informed me that for years there have been discussions with the management of both hospitals and that the acute reason for the bankruptcy was that the improvement plans were not convincing, that the quality of care was under pressure, that there was overdue maintenance, that employees stopped working and that suppliers recovered their medicines and resources. For all these reasons, the insurer did not want to grant emergency credit. If I have understood correctly from the health insurance provider, the quality of care was under pressure so that no other option was seen than no longer to enter into a contract with the hospitals. And with that, it's out of business. Of course, the last word has not been said about this, because the curator will investigate the reasons for the bankruptcy and make a report on it. There are two teams of curators at work, one team for each hospital. I do not have those reports, but additional information will be available, on which I will inform your Chamber further. The question is whether it is the owners, the insurers, the IGJ, the NZa or the main line agreements. I don't think it's one of those parties. It is because of the reasons I have just mentioned to you. Why set up a crisis staff? Last Tuesday, I heard about the insurance situation of both hospitals. When I read back my letter to your Chamber last Tuesday, it is a letter announcing that a phasing-out plan is being drawn up. I didn't expect that there would be a bankruptcy for both hospitals so soon, two days later. That is all hands on deck to ensure that care for the people can be continued. That's what this is about. That is what I was concerned about, namely that care could be continued. I then set up a crisis staff with VWS, NZa and the inspection on board. In addition, there are all kinds of contacts with other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u6	It is good that the Minister compliments those who have moved sick people to other hospitals, but that is not what should have happened. The Minister should have driven his car with a driver to Amsterdam and stood on the sidewalk at the hospital and he should have said: this closure is not going to happen, I am the minister and I am ultimately responsible. If I hear the Minister here say that the Silver Cross has called for the bankruptcy of the Slotervaart hospital and the closure on the basis of quality, why did we not hear the inspection? It's not the insurer who decides what quality is in this country, is it? Isn't that what the inspection's for? The Slotervaart hospital was not under enhanced supervision. How many hospitals are insurers going to decide next year that they do not consider the quality to be sufficient, whereas the inspection has not produced reports and has not been subject to enhanced supervision? At the IJsselmeer hospitals it is another story, because they were under tighter supervision, but that does not apply to the Slotervaart hospital. Mr. Chairman. I really can't help thinking that the Minister who is ultimately responsible didn't see this coming, he didn't inform the NZa and he's just gonna lie down in closing the doors of a hospital within two days. The last word has not yet been said about this. I hope that the Minister will come up with a better story than what he has said so far, because otherwise we will really not be able to speak about this in this house until the middle of the night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. In particular, the Slotervaart hospital has been in severe weather for the past ten years. Over the past ten years, either through a bank or through an insurer, it has been possible to conclude a contract between the health insurance provider on the one hand and the hospital on the other. That was not possible this time, and it is true that the last word has not yet been said about it. But if the health care provider says that it cannot be guaranteed, then we must stand firm for the care of people and stand firm for the care of patients. That is what we must pay attention to. I think that's the most important thing. I have also visited patients in recent days who have been transferred from the Slotervaart hospital to another hospital. Those people were incredibly shocked. On the other hand, they are also relieved that they are taken care of so well, in this case in the OLVG.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u9	The bankruptcy of two hospitals is simply a huge shock to everyone who is confronted with it: the staff of such a hospital, the patients who lie there and the people who had expected to receive care there. It is very good that the Minister is now expressing and expressing this shock, because this is something to be concerned about. Towards the future, and also the near future, there are a lot of concerns especially in Flevoland about the proximity of care. The minister mentioned a crisis team that is now looking at the continuation of care. That seemed to be mainly about the removal of care. In what way does the Ministry endeavour to continue as much care as possible at the Lelystad site, so that as much space as possible is provided for a warm landing and a warm start of care there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u10	The Minister. Short reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u11	The emergency services are fortunately still available in Lelystad at the moment. I would also have liked to have been here with an answer to the questions about a subsequent party, a new care party, which could play an active role in Lelystad. But I can't give you that. I had a meeting with the curator just before this meeting. There are several candidates who want to take care. That is about acute care. The moment I can give you clarity about that... Again, the emergency services are insured and should remain so. I am looking for practical possibilities for this. And we're not gonna let that go until a new party is found. That is only a piece of the answer, but I and the crisis staff, together with the curators, are actively seeking to ensure that care can be continued.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u12	It is good that we continue to talk about how this could have happened so rawly, but there is now rightly a focus on how this is going to go on. In the area of the Noordoostpolder and Urk there are great concerns when it comes to acute obstetrics and emergency services. Does the Minister agree with us that it is not possible to get there over or against the edge of normal times, and that people in that area should also be able to get acute obstetrics and emergency services at a decent distance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u13	Yeah, I agree. For example, we are already looking at making extra ambulance capacity available, so that pregnant women can quickly be in a hospital in this case. This is one of the measures that we are fortunately offered on the basis of the agreements we have in the current way. So I agree with Mr Van der Staaij. And I really wish I could be more concrete than this, but I can't be. But be assured of my intense attention, also on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u14	Care is not a market. And over the past week we have seen that in just a few hours several hospitals in the Netherlands have gone bankrupt. Hospitals are going bankrupt, and we're dealing with caretakers... really, who's gonna come up with it?! They think they can make a profit, which means that hospitals are going bankrupt. My question is: does this minister recognise that the market has failed in the care sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u15	I'm a big supporter of a lot of innovative power. And I know incredibly much innovative power, not only on the public side but also on the private side, which helps us to make and maintain the healthcare system in the Netherlands good and strong. I therefore take a different view from Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mrs Marijnissen, a second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u17	Yes, a second question. I can't believe the Minister's answer. I would almost like to say that I can congratulate him, because this is clearly what he believes in. This is the system he believes in: a country in which hospitals can go bankrupt. Congratulations! I find it unheard of. In doing so, the Minister completely ignores all those involved in these hospitals, the people who work there, the people who are being treated there. He's completely ignoring that. My question is as follows. He says, "I'm active. But of course, he's not doing anything. Let us make it very small and very concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u18	And very briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u19	While we're standing here today, those hospitals are empty. Is the Minister prepared, immediately after Question Time, to table with those concerned the hospitals in the region, the health insurance companies and the municipalities in order to find a solution to get these hospitals started?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u20	As I pointed out in the budget debate, it is a matter of concern to me. At the core, it's my concern. I have indicated this extensively in response to a note written by Mrs Marijnissen's group. I care about the good care. If the Lelystad hospital can't function, we need to look like a hare. We shouldn't be looking for the new hospital in Lelystad, but I want to continue the proper care for the patients. That's what I'm committed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr. Chairman. Unbelievable this answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u23	No, no, no, Mrs. Marijnissen. I call Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u24	On Tuesday, a suspension was requested, on Thursday the hospitals went bankrupt and only on Friday evening we heard from the minister. Where was the minister in the meantime? And when did he first hear of the problems? How come he was surprised, just as surprised as all those patients who were distraught on the street? Where was the minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u25	Especially here in your room, Mr. Chairman. It was the day after the budget procedure that I first heard that there might have been a situation of suspension for both hospitals. I also informed your Chamber of this in a letter of 23 October in the autumn recess. As soon as possible, namely at the time of bankruptcy, on Thursday, I sent another letter to your Chamber. So I was actually working on this subject all the time here in The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u26	Does this mean that the Minister also received for the first time on 23 October a signal that those hospitals were in trouble, that people might not get the care they deserve?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u27	I heard that payment was on the way on Friday after the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u28	It's a human tragedy. It is terrible for staff and for patients who need to be transported to another hospital so quickly. I also say to the Minister: a hospital is more than just a pile of stones. I would also like to hear from the Minister what he thinks about the one-day transfer of these patients, as has happened. We can't all think that's human, can we? And I would also like to ask the Minister: how can we prevent so many patients from being transported from place A to place B in one day in such an inhuman manner? What can the Minister do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u29	I agree with Mr Raemakers that a hospital has a social function. You'd like to have it in your presence, too. It's very raw to hear that the bankruptcy is pronounced over two hospitals. These are incomparable situations, but it is terrible in both situations that the hospitals have gone bankrupt. It was already with the budget treatment and with an earlier AO that I said that I think that this connection between hospital and region should be stronger. That is why I agreed in the main agreements that something of what I have referred to as "the need for care' should be created for each region, an image of the region in which the supply and demand of care are expressed. This is wider than just hospital care, also general practitioner care, also ambulance care, also other forms of care. Not only that; I therefore believe that a look at the future should be provided. As I said in the budget, I asked RIVM to help the regions if they so wished, so that the contacts, which are clear to one another about the concerns of a region, and that this can also be discussed. I would also like to have an active role in this. That's one point. On the other hand, in an earlier debate, I thought in spring, we shared the following. If emergency care, emergency care or acute obstetrics are compromised for reasons of suspension, termination of duties or acquisition, there must be a notification obligation from the provider in question to the core municipality in the region, as well as to the inspection and the NZa, so that we know it properly in time. I wish we had that legal arrangement already. Then we could have taken advantage of it now. But I agree with the speaker that the link between the region and the hospital should be stronger. Maybe that's where I've got to be very careful now. But we have to be very careful about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u30	I am glad that the Minister himself has highlighted the importance of good consultation. We strongly advocated this on 13 June. We hear the Minister now saying that he is using a lot of energy to give the current patients a good home, but in Lelystad there are many people with chronic diseases who simply need and need support for care. Urk has the highest birth rate in the Netherlands. I would like to know from the Minister what he is going to do to ensure that the proximity of care there remains secure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u31	In the direction of Mrs Van den Berg, I must first say the following. Mrs van den Berg has asked me written questions. I'm hurrying to answer those questions. You will receive those answers this afternoon, but I did not manage to deliver them to you before 2 p.m. They are now in my mailbox; I have to read them carefully before I can send them to you. The question that Mrs Van den Berg is asking is exactly mine. I would have liked to stand here with a statement from a curator, who would say 'I mention that and that care provision that offers itself to continue in Lelystad care' to be able to scream hurray. I can't. There are several candidates for forms of take-over of care in Lelystad. The curator is talking to those parties. The curator has informed me that these conversations are going well. The curator also says he needs rest. I can't promise that last one. Again, I think we're all, me too, hanging from his lips to hear what the rash is. Until then, the emergency services in Lelystad must remain guaranteed. I have a strong eye for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u32	This minister says he stands for the continuity of care. He was very shocked by the bankruptcy, while the hospitals were already under supervision. One of the predecessors of this minister, Minister Ab Klink, said that the IJsselmeer hospital was an important hospital in the system, a so-called system hospital. This has everything to do with the importance of the region. That's why Ab Klink also approved a support package. Does this minister agree with Ab Klink that the Lelystad hospital is an important system hospital that is of great importance to the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u33	The term "system hospital" is not of recent date. I don't know that concept. I don't work with it. What matters to me is good care for everyone in Lelystad and surroundings. I am working on this: to keep that care accessible to everyone in the region. This may be misinterpreted, but as far as I'm concerned, it's not about keeping that building intact. It's my job to keep good care intact. That's what the core's focused on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u34	The Minister says: I am concerned about continuity of care and I am concerned about good care. But he also knows that good care is also about the relationship between the doctor and the patient? What we have seen happening at these two hospitals over the last few days is that this relationship has been brutally disturbed. I've spoken to doctors, I've spoken to doctors who are distraught, who don't know where their patients are going. They say: my patients are at risk because I cannot provide that continuity. I would like to hear from this minister that he guarantees that it will never happen again in this way that a hospital goes bankrupt, that it will be phased out within two days and that patients and doctors indicate that their good care is at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u35	I don't have any guarantees. Nor do I have any evidence that other hospitals are falling apart. What I do want to promise is that, as soon as I have knowledge of this, I will report it to this Chamber as soon as possible. Because I, too, have spoken with doctors, I have spoken with patients, and I too have made every effort to ensure the continuation of good quality care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u36	In 2008, ten years ago, the future of the IJsselmeer hospitals was uncertain. For politics, ten years may be a long time ago, but the people who live in Lelystad and surroundings still know that very well. We are all now shocked by what has happened, especially the patients, the care workers and the people in the area. How can we stop us from being back here in ten years? How can we ensure that care in this area is organised so close to people that there is real continuity? I hear the Minister say 'I think continuity of care is important', but we thought it was important in 2008 and yet we are here again. How can we systematically embed long-term care in that area, so that people can rely on it when they need it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u37	If the situation in Slotervaart and around the IJsselmeer hospitals has settled again, I would like to deal with these questions from Mrs Dik-Faber. I would very much like to prevent us from standing here again with a similar question in some time. I want to have and keep that safe care available to everyone in the Netherlands. I think that's important. On the basis of what we still receive from the curator, on the basis of the lessons learned from the inspection and the NZa, I would like to think about what lessons I can learn and submit to the satisfaction of your Chamber here. I think that conversation is very important, but at the moment I do not have all the ingredients for a solution on a platter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u38	The minister began his response with a number of empathic phrases towards patients and staff. But when I hear the answers to the questions asked by my colleagues, I notice that every time they answer from a refrigerator, from an ice cell. "The Minister is not here to keep a building open." "The Minister goes for continuity of care." What's that supposed to mean? And I hear more of those kind of official standard phrases that are not at all at the heart of the matter, namely that a hospital has been shut down. And that must never happen again. The Minister says here: I do not know what the situation is now. My question to the Minister is: if he does not know how this happened, how does he know that this will not happen again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u39	In reply to Mrs Agema's first question, I indicated to you a number of points which the health insurance provider informed me of as a reason for bankruptcy. Actually, I hate being called a fridge. I was with patients at the hospital last night. I've met patients and talked to doctors and family members. There was a kind of relief that it was over. The scare reaction, the transfer, not knowing exactly when and what time. Indeed, my papers go with me, does my family know where I am? This doesn't say anyone who wants to function as a fridge. It's the warmth of the care that matters to me. It's my concern for safety. I am concerned about the quality of care. I want to stay on bail for good care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u40	Mrs. Agema, the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u41	The Minister speaks of a pile of stones. The minister says he's not a bank. The Minister takes things like that in his mouth and I can't call him a fridge. The Minister is powerless behind the wheel. He crashed on a tree on Friday. He got out of the car and he says, "Well, I don't know how that happened." But most of all, he doesn't know how to stop it from happening again. My question to the Minister is: is he the right man in the right place?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u42	I hate the fact that two hospitals are going bankrupt. I think the best thing the Chamber can ask of me is that I stand for the quality of care in the Netherlands. With everything in me, I want to do the best I can to ensure it for now and for the future, for the existing patients and for new patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-3.u43	Thank you.
