ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-4.u1	Let us now turn to Mr Van Kent's question on behalf of the SP to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, whom I warmly welcome, about the message that healthcare provider Carinova wants sick worker to catch up on work. I call Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Companies are constantly looking for ways to make employees work for as little money as possible. For example, meal delivery guy Deliveroo forced his employees to become zzp'er and PostNL even has a separate department of labour market concepts, where new tricks are being devised over and over again. But now also healthcare provider Carinova has some news. According to this healthcare provider, his employees are entitled to quote "problem holder of their absence'. The healthcare provider then comes to "a behavioral vision of absenteeism." But what lies behind this vague language? Basically, if you're scheduled to work and you're sick, you don't get a paycheck, but you have to catch up on this working day at another time. In short, you don't get paid the moment you're sick. That is not a behavioral view of absenteeism as they themselves say. That's scamming with rosters so employees don't get paid when they're sick. This is the evasion of the law, and it is forbidden. Does the Minister agree with the SP that Carinova must comply with laws and regulations and therefore pay employees if they are ill? The cabinet, of course, has a large campaign to make work in care more attractive, to recruit people to work in care. Does the Minister agree with the SP that an image campaign can't compete with these kinds of messages? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to Mr Van Kent for asking the questions. When I read the message, the situation indeed made a remarkable impression on me. I've been frowning the eyebrows and wondering, what exactly is that about? I would like to point out that it is expressly not intended to exert undue pressure on people when they are ill. In general, the employer is obliged to pay wages during illness if there is a contract of employment. The employer must pay the wage and the employee does not have to appear at work. That's the law. To Mr Van Kent's first question, whether I agree that employers and employees should comply with the law, the answer is quite simple: yes. Under the law, the worker in the event of illness is entitled to at least 70% of the wage for the first two years. Many collective agreements add up to 100%. When I read this message, I did indeed think: this is not in line with the law. I've contacted both Carinova and the unions. I say to Mr Van Kent that no shared image has emerged. What is positive is that Carinova and the trade unions will discuss this problem with each other in the short term. I'm waiting for the outcome of that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-4.u5	It is good to hear that the Minister has been in contact with both Carinova and the trade unions, and that it shows the picture that at least the trade union indicates that I know that the law is not being complied with here. Is the Minister prepared to call Carinova on that, too? I understand the minister called Carinova or had him call. Did the Minister also state that this is the way the law works, and you have to abide by it, so you have to pay your employees wages if they are ill? And is the Minister prepared to let other health care institutions know that the law is in this way and that they cannot therefore play these kinds of tricks to stop paying employees wages when they are ill? Would the Minister also comment on the question I had asked about the image of care and this kind of message, which does not do that image any good? And is the Minister also prepared to address Carinova to that? Is he prepared to say that they must stop doing so immediately and bring out the message that they have gone the wrong way and that this measure is being withdrawn?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-4.u6	For the sake of completeness, as I just said, my eyebrows were frowning. First of all, I wanted to look at the precise situation. I have also read the message in the newspaper, which indeed contained ominous messages. That's why I contacted Carinova and asked: what exactly is going on? Again, no shared image came out of that. I do not have all the details of the case, but I have just indicated to Mr Van Kent: this is the law, and people must abide by it. I would also like to emphasise this in this Chamber. There are no signals to me from other health care institutions where this would play. I found it very positive that the trade unions, in this case CNV, NU'91 and FBZ, have spoken about this. That's why that message came in the papers. Is this bad for the image? I do think it's bad for the image. But before I go into all the details, I want to know what's going on. I also think it is important that employers and employees are in dialogue with each other to resolve any differences of opinion or different images. I'll wait and see before I can go into that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-4.u7	I think it's pretty simple what's going on. If a person is scheduled and is then ill and reports sick to the employer, he or she will not be paid a wage, but he or she will have to catch up on the working day at another time. In doing so, Carinova's directive does not comply with the law, namely the employer's obligation to pass on to the employee if he or she is ill. So I think it's pretty simple. I know that oral questions are always well prepared for the Ministry. I also hear there's been a lot of calls. The viewers at home may not know that, but I'm sure there's been a nice folder with all the information they can about this situation. In my view, therefore, the Minister is perfectly capable of judging that, as I have just said, there is an illegal construction here. The law is being broken. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister once again to make a clear statement on this, to appeal to Carinova to this behaviour, to instruct them to withdraw it because it is against the law, and thus to contribute to the image of the care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-4.u8	I understand this question. I think I have clearly indicated that the law is simple on this point. Again, I do not know all the details of this situation and I do not know exactly how it is applied in practice. I contacted you because of this signal. The parties have their move. I also believe that this is the right thing to do: the collective agreement partners together decide how this works in practice. I found it striking that the report in the Algemeen Dagblad states that CNV says that it does not rule out legal proceedings. If someone's acting against the law, you can go straight to the judge. Against this background, I believe that this is the responsibility of the partners, the parties involved. I understand that in the short term they will be in consultation with each other. I hope that it will be clear soon and that the problem will be resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-4.u9	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-4.u10	The Minister points to the judge, but I believe that this minister is responsible for the law as it stands today: an employee must be paid if he or she calls in sick. That is why I expect this Minister to make a very clear statement, namely that Carinova must comply with that law and that the regulation as it is now designed by Carinova is therefore inappropriate and must be withdrawn immediately, also in view of the image of work in the care sector. Because I don't think what's happening here is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-4.u11	I have already said that parties must, of course, abide by the law. That's clear; period. I have also said that the parties to the agreement are the employers and the employees who are responsible for enforcement. They're talking to each other. When parties, i.e. employers and employees, are talking to each other, it does not seem appropriate for me to interfere. If there were a large-scale violation of the law, that would be a different story, but I think it is very positive that in this situation the trade unions are calling the bells and going into consultation with the employer in order to remove any ambiguity. These uncertainties are there, because I myself have had contact with both sides and there are different images of what is going on with the employer and with the trade unions. Before I make far-reaching statements about this, I want to know what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-4.u12	The Minister places responsibility on employers and employees. To be honest, I regret that, because the Minister himself has a political and moral responsibility to convey values about how we deal with sick people in the Netherlands, with sick workers. I understand the Minister doesn't want to sit on the judge's chair. Nobody wants that either, but my question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to do more than frown eyebrows and whether he is prepared to say here that he is sorry and regrets that employers want to deal with sick workers in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-4.u13	I have said this in my second sentence: I would like to point out that it is explicitly not intended to put undue pressure on people when they are ill. Then I made three sentences about what the law is. So I very much agree with Mr Özdil. The law is clear: this cannot be the intention and it is not the intention in practice. If that is the case, it must be maintained, but I have also said that I have checked with both parties and that there are different images of what is going on. I don't know all the details. I don't want to go in there. This Chamber often calls for the social partners to take responsibility for themselves. They are now on the move and are in agreement with each other. I'll wait and see. I hope there will be a satisfactory outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-4.u14	The second supplementary question, Mr Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-4.u15	I do not think the Minister has answered my question in the affirmative at all. My question wasn't about how the law works. My question was not about how the Minister is waiting for the law to be implemented by the social partners. My question is whether the Minister is prepared to say here that he regrets that the employer wants to circumvent the rights of sick workers in this way; that is particularly harsh that it is a healthcare provider. Do you regret that, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-4.u16	I have said that it is not intended to exert undue pressure on people. I also said that I do not know exactly what is going on with this individual healthcare provider in this particular case. Once again, I have asked the organization and the trade unions for care, and there is no shared picture. In other words, one party says "it is so" and the other party says "it is not so." Then I think it is primarily up to the parties together to get out of here. If that doesn't work, it'll come back to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-4.u17	That is exactly my question: what happens if it doesn't? Because it happens that social partners, workers and employers, don't come out. Then this minister and the cabinet are on the move, because the workload in the care sector is high. There's a lot of good people working there. We have to be very careful about that. We even need more people in care. If it turns out that this boss, as the general newspaper says, actually says that someone who is ill should catch up on another day and if the unions fail to agree with this boss, what will this minister do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-4.u18	I understand Mr Van Dijk's question very well, but it is primarily up to the contracting parties and the negotiating parties to be careful. Once again, the CNV has already announced in the newspaper that it will not rule out a course of justice. She would then go to the judge and say, "This is the law, and this is the practice; make a ruling on it." That's what it's supposed to be in the rule of law. If it turns out that this problem is more widespread in various health care institutions, then I think it is right that the question should come back to me, because then we should look at the law or the enforcement of it by the inspection SZW. The order is very clear. First, employers and trade unions are urged to solve this problem. I have been very clear about the background: it cannot be that undue pressure is exerted on workers when they are ill and the payment of wages is in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-4.u19	Especially in healthcare, it's super important that people can just do their job. There's a lot of work going on there. The reason the workload is so high makes a lot of people get sick and fall out. If you want to prevent that, the circumstances must be improved. What I do not understand is that the Minister shifts the responsibility entirely to the trade unions. But since when have the trade unions in our country been responsible for enforcing the law? Where is the responsibility of the minister himself? When he sees things like this, doesn't he have to immediately think that we want to keep the image of care high and make working in care attractive? Then you must want to sit on top of that, right? Then you're not gonna look at the union, are you? Then you're gonna intervene on your own, aren't you? Then you're going to see for yourself how to solve this problem and how to make sure that this never happens again, not with these organizations and not with others?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-4.u20	If there are abuses, the trade unions are in practice perfectly capable of addressing them through the media and towards me. Then we can send in our enforcement authority, the SZW inspection. I've been getting information in the situation where I was confronted with an article. I understand that in the short term the social partners will consult with each other in order to get out of this. One party says there's been a misunderstanding. The other one says there's definitely something going on. I hear all as-then reasoning; they're all about "if so." I want to know what's going on first. I hope employers and employees get out of here. If that is not the case, I have a wide range of measures at my disposal. But first, I'd like to carefully set out the facts and wait for the conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-4.u21	Thank you.
