ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the debate on the lack of appropriate youth aid. I welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport in our midst. As the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, I give the floor to Mr Raemakers of D66. We agreed on a four-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u2	Thank you, Mr President. If there's one reason I'm in this room, it's the kids. If there is one reason why I am asking for a debate, it is because the rights of young people are at stake. I have asked for a debate twice so far, and twice it was because the rights of young people were at stake. We often talk in the Chamber and in committees about a lack of youth care, about a lack of budget and about a lack of guidance. I think that we will soon be discussing this in the evaluation of the Youth Act. But when are we going to talk about too much child care? Too much, too patronizing and too restrictive? Too far-reaching, which does not help young people? Young people actually have another question for help. These young people must receive the most appropriate help. What's going on? 500 youth attorneys have written a letter of fire stating that young people who are in a closed youth aid institution often stay here longer than necessary, because they are on a waiting list for another course, which would fit better. I think that this is a major problem and that politics must move more in the perspective of young people. Because such a closed institution is of course no fun at all. You can't leave and you're subject to all kinds of restrictions. Sometimes it's necessary, but sometimes it's not necessary. What are the two directions D66 is thinking about? First of all, it is the duty of municipalities to help young people. Of course, municipalities themselves are responsible for youth aid, but the minister is responsible for the system. When I read the documents, I get a bit of the idea that municipalities sometimes think that the young people in a closed youth care institution are safe and that they do not need to arrange a new place for them if necessary. Can the Minister make it very clear to the municipalities that the purpose of the duty of youth aid is to provide the best care and that this is not just the most serious concern? I also wonder what the Minister can do in the direction of the judges, in this case children's judges. There are examples of children's judges who say that appropriate youth care cannot be provided and who therefore extend the authorisation for closed youth assistance. Is that okay with you? Can a child's judge do that? Does a child's court perhaps also have the opportunity to simply say: no, the municipality has to buy another aid route; so, dear congregation, do you have to provide suitable help? Is that possible? Secondly, I am thinking of small-scale family-oriented services, which are a bit like closed institutions, but they are just not. I didn't think of that myself. It's from the advice of the RSJ. I am very pleased that these small-scale facilities are already mentioned in the Minister's Youth Care Action Plan. D66 would like us to work that idea out quickly. How many small-scale facilities, as described in RSJ's advice, are there currently in the Netherlands? How do they work and how can the Minister, from his role, ensure that more are soon to come? The participation of young people is important. What does such an institution look like and is it really something where the rights of young people are guaranteed? I'll close with the finances. As I said, sometimes there is too much youth aid and there are too many restrictions, which may not be entirely justified. But we're also short of a budget. Last autumn, we heard that the institutions for closed youth aid are facing increasing influxes. Now we hear this sound of the lawyers saying the outflow is taking too long. We've talked a lot about finance over the past year. This was mainly about whether municipalities have enough money for youth aid. There's a solution to that now. I would like to ask the Minister specifically whether the institutions for closed youth aid come out with the finances if so many young people sit there for too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you. You have an interruption. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u4	Mr Raemakers says that there is now a solution to the financial deficits in the municipalities. Can he explain that? When I see and hear what is accumulated in municipalities and regions, it is not in proportion to the amount that the Minister is now making available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u5	Two amounts have been made available. This is, of course, first of all the money that comes from the intergovernmental programme: the 100 million raised by the municipalities and the 100 million raised by the Empire. That money will be used to fill the deficits of municipalities. Of course, it is still necessary to examine which municipalities they are. Secondly, however, the accres for municipalities will of course also grow. This means that municipalities will receive more money in the coming years. Some of that money can also be used by municipalities for youth aid. How much that is, then, perhaps the Minister will be able to say something about it tonight. But a solution is being worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u6	If, for example, we can believe the FNV, you will, if you want to organise youth aid properly and properly, have to reverse the austerity and then you will have to add extra money to pay for the extra call that is now being made on youth care. Then we don't talk about 200 million, then we don't talk about structural 36 million. No, we'll talk about an amount of $750 million. Those are very different amounts. I am sure Mr Raemakers is going to say that this is a serious exaggeration, but when I see how high the deficits in municipalities and regions are and when I add them up, that amount is not so crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u7	We have, of course, also decentralised. In the decentralisation of youth care, we have said that any deficits can also be solved with the WMO and the Participation Act. So exact amounts are a little tricky for me. I do agree with Mr Hijink that there really is a problem here and that there seems to be a specific problem in the area of youth care. I just mentioned the two financial traces that need to be resolved. Of course, I would like to hear from the Minister whether he can give an indication of how much of that amount is available for youth aid. But again, I also see municipalities where things are going well, where finances are not a problem. So I think we should take a critical look at it, but we cannot say that in every municipality the finance is the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u8	Thank you. Then I shall go to the next speaker on the side of the Chamber. That is Mr Hijink of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u9	Mr. Chairman. If 500 juvenile attorneys ring the bell, there's something serious going on. There are shortages for appropriate youth care for underage young people. In her letter, the Association of Dutch Juvenile Law Advocates refers to a judgment of the Central Netherlands Court of 14 February. I took that judge's ruling for a second. I would like to read from that statement to make it clear that the discussion we are having here tonight should not be a technical story, but that the concern, safety and fundamental rights of children and young people are at stake. The girl in question is forced to stay in a closed institution because the care cannot be arranged elsewhere due to waiting lists. The stakeholders in this case say that she is now literally walking away from her emotions and problems and that this leads to situations with even more problems. Her problems are not being addressed yet, and treatment should have been started long ago. After placement in a closed setting, the girl should be treated elsewhere, but she was not available because waiting lists. And she came home, then it took two months for care to be available at home. And we read further in the pronunciation: however, the demand for help to deal with traumatic events remained. Aid which had been clearly needed for some time, but which had not always come off the ground. Then things got worse with her and the parents struggled to keep her within the structure. This has led to several incidents: missing persons and suicidal expressions. After she was missing again, she was found on February 5, 2017 and with an emergency permission closed youth support was re-placed at location x. And it goes on. The judge considers it regrettable that it took too long for the minor to receive the assistance requested, and hopes that she can start treatment and effective therapy as soon as possible so that she can work on her problems. And here's what this is about tonight, Mr. Chairman. It concerns young people who spend unnecessarily long periods of time in a closed institution. It is about waiting lists due to shortages and about the implementation by municipalities, which unfortunately are still too often inadequate. It is about young people falling between shore and ship, getting into deeper trouble and possibly becoming a danger to themselves or others. Judges indicate that municipalities simply did not buy in certain forms of care. Can the Minister respond to that? We can't accept that this is happening, can we? It is precisely specialist care for children that is crucial. But now that youth care is with the municipalities, scarce, highly specialised, nationally organized institutions are in danger of disappearing simply because they are not being bought in. Once these organizations and knowledge are gone, you won't be able to rebuild them again. So this offer must not be lost. Can the Minister guarantee these institutions that he will step in if continuity of care is compromised? Mr. Chairman. There has also been a significant reduction in the budget for youth care. We just had a brief debate on it. Municipalities are now running into them massively. The SP has asked several questions about the deficits of municipalities and regions. The financing of youth ggz can also cause problems. If a general practitioner quite rightly refers a few young people to the psychiatrist for intensive treatment, then the budget for the whole of the youth care system will soon be destroyed. It is literally the case that the costs incurred for caring for a sick child should be set off against repairing a playground. Is that what this decentralisation is all about? Can the Minister respond to that? Mr. Chairman. We will soon be discussing the first evaluation of the Youth Act. That is very necessary, because the decentralisation of youth care has brought care closer to young people in some respects, and that is good, but there are also major problems. The Minister cannot wait to solve these problems, the deficits, the waiting lists and the youth-ggz. We'd like to hear from him tonight how he's going to deal with these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u10	Thank you. Then we go to the next speaker on the side of the Chamber, and that is Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't really know how many debates this is about municipalities that have been losing their youth duty since the Youth Act was introduced in 2015. There were a lot of them. I think it's getting embarrassing, too. If I read the documents correctly, the Minister's letter, his action plan and the legislative amendment that came to the Chamber, then he would like to reverse the Dijkgraaf amendment which set a horizon for requiring municipalities to cooperate regionally. I ask the Minister if this is the whole solution. After all, that horizon clause did not last until 1 January, while in 2015, 2016 and 2017 we held many plenary debates on municipalities that abandoned their youth aid obligation in many parts of youth aid. My questions are as follows. How often were municipalities obliged to cooperate regionally in 2015, 2016 and 2017? And if we look at now: how many municipalities are failing to comply with their youth duty when it comes to the lack of an appropriate follow-up place or waiting lists for outpatient treatment, both for children affected by deprivation of liberty and residence in an open institution? Finally, what has the Minister done so far in the direction of these municipalities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u12	Thank you. Then I will go to the next speaker, Mrs Tielen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u13	Mr. Chairman. "I'm still just a kid, can't do it all by myself. Maybe I'll find happiness someday, but how that's a big problem." You will hear it; Ciske de Rat remains an inspiration in debates on youth care. When preparing for this debate, I was reminded of him, but also of Sulayna and Roy, young people with whom I was talking during two working visits about their stay in a Youth Care Plus institution, and of that desperate mother I spoke to recently. For some children, appropriate help comes very late, but as far as I am concerned, this debate is coming a little early. After all, appropriate youth care and youth support are an integral part of the Youth Act. The mid-term review of the Youth Act also contains a lot of information on appropriate youth assistance. We will soon be discussing this with the Minister's action programme. I also need a little more than four minutes' speaking time for that, perhaps even today. Let me use this debate to name two issues of improvement and question the Minister. The first is more interdisciplinary cooperation. The scare before 2015 was that there were more than twenty aid workers running around in one family. That image isn't quite gone yet. One family, one plan remains important in order to arrange and provide appropriate help. But as long as there is no shared vision of appropriate aid between the different experts, there is no trust and no cooperation. This is obstructive; we can see that. Appropriate help means that those involved must put the child at the centre and not just confess it with their mouths, but together with other experts and those involved at the table who also shape this cooperation. That takes courage, and that takes time from those caregivers. And it takes the stimulus of the governments. My question to the Minister is therefore how he can encourage those authorities and aid workers to really get this cooperation going. What tools does the Minister want the healthcare networks to develop to make cooperation work? What's he thinking and how? I'd like a response. In addition, more knowledge, research and evidence-based practice are needed to improve the effectiveness and quality of treatments. A lot of carers have a lot of knowledge, but it's shredded. Often they disagree on how this should work. A report from the Health Council that came out last week shows again how effectiveness of interventions can be misjudged. I ask the Minister whether he agrees with the importance of knowledge and research in the field of youth aid and how much funding there is now at national and decentralised level for research and knowledge sharing. How much research is to be expected and is there coordination of knowledge development? I'd like a response. I also have a few specific questions about the letter we are talking about. In his response, the Minister states that he wants to work with adjustments to ensure that the link between the Youth Act, juvenile criminal law and health law is strengthened. Can the Minister indicate what adjustments he is making and what period of time he will involve us in this? In an earlier debate, the Minister also indicated that he was working on the regional inventory of the waiting lists. What's the status? I understand that the municipalities and the regions are working to make agreements with the certified institutions. Can the Minister inform us about this too? I look forward to the debates that are still going to come on this subject, but I am very much aware that it is much more important for Sulayna, Roy and those mothers that all those involved in their area are going to arrange and provide the most appropriate and effective help. Let us give them room to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u14	Thank you. Then we go to the next speaker on the side of the Chamber. That's Mrs Westerveld from GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u15	Mr. Chairman. One of my first plenary debates here, a year ago, dealt with the waiting lists in youth care. Mrs. Agema referred to it as well. I think there was a lot of talk about it before I was in the Chamber. The immediate cause last year was an emergency call from Emma's parents via Facebook. Their daughter needed help urgently, but she's been on the waiting list for months. And now we're back here. And again there are waiting lists. Again there are children who do not get the right care, while a lot could have happened in the past year. But unfortunately... Do we really know how big the problem is, I ask the Minister. How many kids are on the waiting list and are there more or less than a year ago? Last year during the debate, my motion was adopted to oblige municipalities to publish information on waiting lists. Has that happened yet? If so, what is the state of play? The problem isn't falling out of the sky either. In 2017, 87% of the municipalities already indicated that they were not expecting to release the money for youth assistance in 2018. Fortunately, this minister is good at writing plans, so is youth care. But I'm curious about concrete goals. Is he prepared to take a zero measurement of components and to set specific targets for these plans? The lawyers say in a letter of fire that children should spend too long in an institution for closed youth assistance because there is no appropriate help outside the institution. That is not possible, and it is also contrary to the Minister's ambitions to allow children to grow up as at home as possible according to the action plan. As one of the causes the lawyers call a poor purchasing policy of municipalities. After all, they have a duty to help young people and must offer appropriate help. Is the Minister prepared to appeal to municipalities there, even more than they are now? As the Minister knows, GroenLinks is also critical of the procurement policy. That is what he himself is, and I wonder whether he will be able to outline the state of affairs in the near future. Another point from the lawyer's letter is a lack of money. Municipalities simply have too little money to buy enough and good youth aid. We are getting signals from local authorities about this over and over again. Last week, for example, the city council in Oosterhout adopted a motion in which the council states that the State's financial contribution to youth aid is not sufficient. I ask the Minister whether 37% of the municipalities are crazy or whether we simply did not get it right here. Do we need more money to help children? I would like a response from the Minister. Now my final point, Mr President, because there is also a gap in our system according to GroenLinks. Where this minister wants young people to grow up as much as possible at home, we can see that the number of young people who have strayed has been rising enormously in recent years. Is it true that I haven't seen the survey with the numbers and possibilities of improvement in the case of wandering youngsters, which was due to be completed at the beginning of 2018? Young people themselves indicate that stopping youth care in conjunction with all other responsibilities when someone turns 18 and the lack of living space has to do with this. But while this minister, according to the action plan, talks about growing up as much as possible at home in a loving and stable environment, rules have been drawn up at a neighbouring ministry which, on the contrary, requires young people who become 21 to leave home more often. We all know that the cost-sharing standard for this group of young adults poses a lot of problems in practice. According to GroenLinks, this cost-sharing standard should be completely removed, but I ask this Minister whether he is prepared to look with his colleague at the possibility of making an exception for the group that is dealing with youth aid. I look forward to the Minister's answers and I sincerely hope that he is prepared to look not only at his own ministry but also at the other ministries when it comes to bottlenecks, so that we can give these young people better help.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u16	Thank you. Then we go to the last speaker on the side of the Chamber, Mr Peters of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u17	Mr. Chairman. More than 500 juvenile attorneys are on the clock. There is a shortage of appropriate youth assistance for underage clients. There is a waiting list for some forms of outpatient assistance. As a result, clients spend longer than necessary and longer than desired in a closed placement, for example in Youth CarePlus. This picture, confirmed by the Minister in his response of 27 March 2018, fits in with the picture of the first evaluation of the Youth Act. The minister recognizes the problem, he addresses it, and he says he's coming up with a programme to care for youth. That's what's been going on. The Minister prepares the programme with municipalities, clients and institutions and involves the Association of Dutch Youth Law attorneys, the VNJA. That's good, you might say, the problem is acknowledged and arrested with all the stakeholders. So the problem is solved. However, I have a number of questions for the Minister. Where does this shortage of appropriate youth aid come from? Is there a sufficient amount of outpatient youth assistance purchased? Money cannot and must not be the problem. The Youth Act is crystal clear about it. If there is more structural demand than supply, why isn't supply increasing? If the Minister's answer to my first question is a clear 'yes', then what will the Minister do to solve that simple problem? It may also be that the same amount of outpatient assistance has been bought in from different institutions as in previous years, and that in the case of a degreening population, it could not be assumed that the demand for heavy outpatient assistance would increase. In that case, it could mean that institutions are now full of clients who should actually be able to cope with lighter help. It could be one of the ways in which institutions could cope with their possible cuts. I'd like a response from the Minister. The CDA also receives signals from some providers and municipalities that a lack of resources would still play a role in the poor purchasing of expensive aid. How does the Minister respond to such signals? Are municipal resources now being looked at as a matter of urgency? In other words, is there solidarity within the municipal budget and therefore between the aldermen? Does the March circular, to which Mr Raemakers referred and which have already been passed on to these municipalities, offer sufficient relief? Is there perhaps still a profit to be made through strengthened regional cooperation and procurement? I would like a reply from the Minister and an answer to the question as to whether he might need anything else from the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The CDA is also getting signals that young people who had previously been in a youth prison find an increasingly important place in closed youth institutions, therefore, for care, and that these young people, who would have previously fallen under the jurisdiction of the Justice Department, would swallow up an unforeseen proportion of the resources and capacities in those care institutions. Does the Minister recognize that image? What could he possibly do about this? The CDA also receives signals from municipalities that complain about lack of real alignment with the Long-Term Care Act and that almost all children would now be covered by the municipal regime of youth care. This could partly explain both the waiting list and the lack of resources. I'd like a response from the Minister. Of course, the fact that children live longer than strictly necessary in restrictive conditions is not okay. It is also unacceptable for children to be deprived of the right mediocrity for longer than is strictly necessary. The Minister recognizes and recognises the problem and undertakes to find out and resolve it. That is good and we await the Prime Minister's answers in the first term. I would like to add that it is not clear to me where these waiting lists might come from. I can find a lot of possibilities, but which one it is, I can't put my finger on that. Another question: I find it very difficult to understand why very expensive youth aid would create a waiting list, because it would lead towards cheaper youth aid. The other way around, I can still imagine. Going this way is kind of hard. From closed to out-of-arms everyone should want, including municipalities that might already be suffering from financial deficits. I'll wait for the first-term answers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u18	Thank you. Then we arrived at the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. I'm suspending the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u19	I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport to answer the first-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also for the questions that your Members asked in the first term. Let there be no misunderstanding: it is not acceptable for children to stay longer than necessary in closed youth care. That is also one of the reasons why we have included this as a spearhead in the Youth Care Programme. That is what we have done in response to the evaluation of youth aid. It is the policy programme of this cabinet for this cabinet period with regard to youth care. It includes reducing the number of closed placements as one of the spearheads. That's one and two is shortening the duration of the closed placements. Because if children can't live at home, we want them to be taken care of as much as possible in a small-scale, family-oriented and perspective-oriented way. As home as possible. This is not an easy task, especially for this target group. It's about a complex target group that needs a lot of care. Moreover, that target group often does not think so and therefore avoids that concern. It is about children who have already completed several aid courses, often with enormous disappointment. So it's a very heavy target group. Taking care of them in a small-scale family-oriented setting requires a lot of the people who work there. That's why it won't be easy. I will come back to that in a moment. The main objective of the Youth Care Programme, which your Chamber received on 16 April following the evaluation of the Youth Act, is to make youth aid noticeable and measurable better. We carry out this programme together with municipalities and with the youth sector. Perhaps the order could have been different, namely that we had discussed the programme first and then this letter or that we had done so at the same time. Forgive me if I have to refer to that programme once in a while, but I hope that we will soon be able to discuss this in greater detail. I would like to answer the questions as follows tonight. First of all, I would like to ask the questions that are really about the closed youth aid and the follow-up. I'll do that first block. Some of your members have already zoomed out a bit and asked questions about the waiting lists and the handling of waiting lists more generally. That'll be the second block. A third block could be that there are some questions... "There is some questions" I must of course say. I see a few educational spokesperson sitting in the room and also the lectures are of course educational spokesperson, so I will pay close attention to my language. A number of questions have been asked about the budgets. That'll be the third block, as far as I'm concerned. Then there are some other questions, in the block of varia. First the questions about closed youth care, youth aid. Following the letter of fire that was sent, on 21 March our staff spoke extensively with the juvenile lawyers. Their concerns have been well expressed, namely that young people are in trouble because they have to wait too long for a suitable place and that municipalities would give too little priority to this. We talked to the lawyers about the agreement we made with each region that in each region is a regional expert team to ensure that every child receives appropriate youth assistance quickly, regardless of the complexity of the care question and regardless of any waiting lists. For the most complex cases, a rural support structure is set up. That's a helpful appointment. The lawyers are not concerned in all cases, but in some cases they are concerned about clients who are not able to get to a follow-up place quickly enough. What's exactly the experience of lawyers is that it's hard for them to go anywhere with that kind of care. Who's from at the time, anyway? That is also one of the reasons why we have set up such a regional expert team in each region. We have taken a number of other measures. I'll explain it in a minute. In addition, we have asked the Ambassador Zorglandschap to explain with the lawyers at a member meeting the working methods of these regional expert teams. That is now a nationwide covering network. In June, the VNG will make available on the site who the contacts are per region for this type of complex casusism and what to do when it stops. By the way, this is not necessarily also the sustainable solution that we are aiming for in our programme, because this is really about a shorter period of stay and actually also about a different type of design of that closed youth care. Then I will go to Mr Raemakers' question, because I have a set of questions that relate to closed youth care. I come first to Mr Raemakers' question. Will the Minister urgently examine the small-scale, family-oriented facilities with a limited level of security and discuss them with partners, asking young people for input? I share Mr Raemakers' wish to opt for small-scale, family-oriented services, even when it comes to closed youth care. "No matter how hard that will be," I'm going to add. Once again: this is a very care-intensive group and this is at all a very intensive group to guide. And in an institution you are of course always with more colleagues and also the other can take care of when you get stuck, but in a family-oriented setting there are of course much less possibilities. That really means that we have to take proper account of, in particular: who are you asking to do that? So are the first experiences of examples that already exist. Who's strong enough in child care to do that? There are people who can do it, but we must be very careful about it. A good example is that Family House Plus of De Glind, where young people reside on the basis of conditional authorisation closed youth care. That's a good example. Other examples are small-scale facilities of De Hoenderloo Groep or of Spirit in Amsterdam. These examples show that this small-scale approach is simply good for young people, but they also show that it is not an easy task for the aid workers, and we must be careful. I actually see Mr Raemakers' request as a support to make these agreements with each region. It is, of course, the case that the region itself is on the move. We will invite the regions, we will think along with them, we will support it with the support team; we will all do that, but in the end that region will have to decide and take that step. This is a form of innovation which they will also have to design and give shape and content to. We'll do that with them, but I'd be happy to get on with it. And, of course, it makes sense to include young people's experiences in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u21	Of course, I welcome the Minister's words. But what if you're standing in that courtroom and that's where the discussion is about whether or not closed youth care is possible? I wonder: under what heading could we also make small-scale facilities an option? A judge should then be able to say: well, in this case closed youth aid is too heavy and we have a new toolbox, which has also been developed with the help of the Empire and which is also available in your region or your municipality. Does the Minister also see an opportunity to give this more legal form?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u22	No, I would honestly not be in favour of that, because I think that the process of redirection to such a provision is different and should also go differently. In fact, this should be about the role of the Council for the Protection of the Child. So, before the judge takes a decision, we really need to make a good proposal on what is the best solution. The basic starting point will be the following. It's about an authorization removal; that's what's being asked anyway. But an authorization-closed placement is actually an even more far-reaching request to the judge. You will first have to back that up; that is what the Council of Children's Protection must do. The basis for this is, in fact, always that a young person has proven to escape youth care if there is no closed placement. The legal possibility to create another setting, actually a legal title, can be a provisional authorisation closed placement. That too is being done. Then that is actually asked from the council; after the council investigation the council investigator submits that reekest to the judge. At that point, the judge decides whether or not to go along with it. The type of offer is the result of that. There is therefore no need for a different legal title when it comes to a small-scale form and arrangement of that closed placement. As far as a provisional authorisation is concerned, it is really a different legal title. The judge can just decide on the basis of the rehearsal. What is necessary... In the slipstream of this interruption I answer right away but a question from Mrs Tielen. I have heard and also read in a number of judgments that a judge specifically prescribes a certain offer. That's not always helpful to find the best form of care. Sometimes the form is one with which the juvenile judge himself has good experiences, sometimes the type of follow-up that needs to be given is not sufficiently clear. What's the answer to that? It's hard to tell judges what they can and can't decide. I wouldn't want that at all. Suppose there is a changing supply in the judicial chain in a region. Then it is about the Public Prosecutor's Office but also about the Council of Children's Protection and it can also be about the juvenile judges in general; never about an individual case but in general. If there is a changing offer, for example because a municipality has chosen to shape small-scale closed youth care, the judicial chain must be well informed of this changing offer. This can be very helpful in how the council's rerest takes shape and how the judge's ruling then takes shape. That type of conversation is also held in many regions. That can help to get it well connected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u23	However, a question from Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u24	A brief question, Mr. Chairman. I understand very well what the Minister is saying. But if we look at the perspective of young people... we know that closed institutions can apply very different regimes and impose different restrictions on freedom. It would be a shame to have a younger victim of the system. Mrs Westerveld has already referred to it: there are all kinds of international conventions on this that we have signed. Is this practice, which the Minister clearly explains, fully in line with international law on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u25	The answer is yes. The RSJ says that you should look not so much at the legal regime under which young people are placed, but at the young people themselves. So not the legal regime, but the question of young people's care should be at the forefront. Then we are talking about putting young people together with a criminal title with young people with a civil title. The cabinet will return to this RSJ advice. My colleague for Justice and Security, Mr Dekker, is, of course, in the lead, but we will come back to that. Maybe we should go further into the treaty-law aspect. With regard to the current practice of guidance, I think it works well in so far as it has to go well on the front to underpin the need for closed placement. If there is no such need, a lighter alternative should be chosen. That's how the judge's gonna look at it. If a judge finds that the need is not sufficiently substantiated, he will always give a ruling to opt for a lighter alternative. That is very in line with the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. Then it may be a provisional authorisation to close the premises. That's helpful as a stick behind the door. In such a small-scale setting without fences, to call it that, you can shape the care. In addition, closed care for young people must also be renewed. Then we are talking about a smaller-scale establishment, where there is the most home-based facility possible and a shorter stay period, so that we only have the total closed youth care available to those young people for whom it is really necessary and inevitable. I will move on quickly to another question, Mr President. You put the time in the red, by the way. That's to encourage you? Thank you for that. Is it actually known how often young people have to stay in closed care for longer than necessary because there is no appropriate follow-up aid? Suggested: it's not acceptable if that happens. It happens a few times. Or a few times... it's more common than wanted, because otherwise we wouldn't have discussed that fire letter today. But how often it happens, it's hard to say. It is true that, with the possibility of these regional expert teams, we have really offered a faster opportunity for follow-up care, also accessible to lawyers. Reducing the number of closed placements is one of the action points in the Youth Care Programme, but perhaps it makes sense to see how often that happens. I might be able to make it part of the monitoring, but perhaps it would be a good idea to take a look at this separately in advance. In view of the number of institutions, I believe that we have thirteen institutions in the closed youth care system, it should not be such a huge job to map this out properly. It is therefore a question of how often, in the absence of appropriate follow-up care, there will be a need for an extension. So that's actually kind of the objectification of the burn note we've had. I'd be happy to do that. I am therefore happy to say that in the direction of the Raemakers and the others who have asked a similar question. The CDA asks Mr Peters: does the Minister recognise the signs that young people who had previously been in juvie find their way towards closed youth care on a larger scale? I can't see that on the basis of the numbers. I have just checked with the Ministry of Justice and Security, but that signal cannot be properly placed there either. If you look at the population in the closed youth care, then that is not the way to take it out of the numbers. It is about a target group that is partly overlapping. The target group of closed youth care also partly has police backgrounds, criminal backgrounds, but the reason for a closed placement is of course often different from a crime scene. There is often a huge concern about behavioral problems, psychosocial problems. Many young people also have a slightly intellectual disability. It is a question of establishing the need for care and of not being able to do so in a voluntary framework. That's different from a criminal charge. There is, of course, a balancing framework, a directive and a framework for the criminal proceedings of young people and adolescents, including measures of punishment for Halt. It also states that if there are serious concerns about the education of young people, civil law measures can also be considered. The consideration "do I choose a criminal claim here or do I think that civil law measures should be considered here?" Initiately to the D.A.'s office. It is then up to the Council for the Protection of Children to do so directly, but this is never really done in order to start the civil process, submit a petition and apply for the authorisation to be placed closed. I cannot see at the moment that there is a substitution, although the target group is therefore partly heard, I say that it is overlapping. But perhaps we should also discuss this aspect further in the cabinet response to the RSJ recommendation. Then there is the question of whether the use of closed youth aid is increasing. Well, actually, not like that. You could say that there is a slight growth in the number of children placed for the first time, but that growth is so light that you can't find a trend in it. It's a few percent. You can see the number of new placements increasing a bit and at the same time you can see that the duration of stay is already shorter and that the outflow is also increasing. It's a bit of a middle-class thing. So you cannot actually say that the use of closed youth aid is increasing. By the way, I think it is also good to realize that the picture is different from one region to another. If you add all these movements together, there seems to be a slight decrease at the moment. I think I've already had the question of what the judge can impose. In fact, I have already included Mrs Tielen's question. I think we have had the questions about closed youth aid with that. Then the waiting lists. A number of spokesmen, Mr Peters, Mrs Tielen and Mrs Westerveld, asked for the waiting lists. Mrs Agema has also pointed out that we are not discussing this issue for the first time; we have discussed it a number of times. In fact, when I came in, next to a huge transfer file, there was also a stack of seven motions on waiting lists. That makes it clear that it is the Chamber, and of course myself, serious. Waiting lists have been mentioned a long time and often. Last time, it was about waiting lists in the youth ggz. I said then: if you look at waiting lists and you zoom in on them, you can see that the background of those waiting lists can be very diverse. This often has to do with purchasing agreements, good contact management, good triage at the front, good waiting list mediation or referral from one provider to another, on which agreements must be made. I will mention what we all do to make those waiting lists transparent and then reduce them. Before I do that, I would like to make one further comment. I want to make sure that this seemed a bit decided in Mrs Westerveld's question, but I know that you are not in it if we were to make a large national Excelsheet. Would that help for the kids that that letter of fire is about? I don't think so. The causes and background of the waiting lists are so rooted in the region that the solution must also be found there. I do want every region to have a waiting list approach. I'll tell you how we're gonna send that. That is not yet a ruling on your motion, because that is where I come to the conclusion. We have made the following agreements, which have already been borrowed a bit from the Care for Youth programme. We can also discuss this at a later date. One is that there must be final agreements in each region on how to deal with waiting lists and waiting times. Two is the agreement that there should be a social card in each region, so that anyone looking for youth aid can be parents, but also referees can easily know what the offer is in the region and how that offer can be achieved. Each region must also keep that map up-to-date. A third is to set up an expert team in each region to proceed with complex cases. A fourth is that there must be agreements on perseverance in each region. A fifth is that each region must have a learning table where it is widely learned about the casuism that has led to the use of little-known specialist youth aid. We will support and monitor these regional agreements with a support team. So just keep an eye on whether that actually happens in every region. Last week I was addressed by the Youth Journal about a boy who was in the picture, Lorenzo, who has been waiting a long time for youth ggz. I have said that, in addition to ensuring that these agreements are complied with, I also want to be informed every time everything has been tried and a case cannot be resolved. The question can then be asked as to whether this is appropriate to the system's responsibility. I think so, because I want the system to work. I said in the broadcast: if everything has been tried, if the municipality and the region have been addressed, please email me! My address has been in the picture and I have now received about eight emails. That's right, it's incredibly complex. What is also striking about these issues is that there is often such an enormous coincidence of complexity that the supply these young people need really needs to be tailored. The offer doesn't exist yet. That's okay. The most important thing is that such a regional expert team knows, designs the offer and then leads the children there. What I do with this individual caseism, that's the downside of it, is test whether it works in that region as we agreed it should work and as we want it to work. I would also like to make such an invitation in your direction. If you are e-mailed, that will undoubtedly be the case, about a complex case of which you are wondering how it should be resolved, please forward it to me. One because I can learn from it and two because it can help solve it. I'd also like to let you send me the casuism that ends up in your mailbox in order to get started with it. Mr Peters asked whether we should conclude that there is no adequate procurement of outpatient assistance. To be honest, I find that conclusion too one-dimensional. I am afraid to say that, and I cannot say that either, because I do not have an overall picture of how much aid has been bought in and how big the question is. You can't. If you look at waiting lists, there might also be a mismatch between supply and demand in a region, but that doesn't have to be the only reason. The complexity of the casusism can also be a reason, like the triage, so that you first help the cases that need it most and then the simpler cases. In the youth ggz a better triage can help greatly, as well as refer better, if you don't have a place, because you have a number of vacancies, but your colleague still does. The referral to a colleague provider is not always customary in every region. In short, you can't say that the existence of waiting lists is proof of the shortage of purchased youth aid, but at most there is not a good match of supply and demand at the time. Mr Peters also asked a question about the transformation. Isn't it strange that there would be a waiting list for the sequel in the case of heavy youth aid or closed youth care? Shouldn't you rather expect it the other way around because of the financial incentive? I guess it doesn't seem to be that economical. It is not a conscious policy to buy in from one species but a little less. The available, appropriate follow-up aid is a problem, but it does not necessarily have to do with a shortage of purchased care. Ambulant youth care is often bought with route financing, but closed youth support often involves PxQ funding, so that is another form of payment. It is especially not good enough to connect together and an insufficient match in an individual case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u26	I see that there is an interruption by Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u27	I understand very well that it is not that simple. We have 15 types of waiting lists; these are waiting lists, unintended waiting lists, mismatches between regions. I also understand that there are different ways to finance. Actually, I get it all. The only conclusion I can draw then is that that burn note that there's a problem doesn't say anything. We all know that, so that is not why we are in this debate. We all know that there is a problem and that those people are in that closed part for too long where they don't belong. You indicate a number of solutions: a better match, expert tables, if necessary e-mail to the minister himself. How do you feel about the proposal I heard the other day that we should stop doing a closed placement for a sec without a plan for what comes next?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u28	That could be part of the children's protection council's rehearsal. Something similar, but that's more on the supply side, is that you also shape the closed youth care as a youth care pathway, so that's a form of route financing for closed youth care. It's not that easy to work out. This is mainly due to the scale of the work of closed youth aid providers and the supply of local youth assistance. You can imagine that the providers of closed youth care work together with the follow-up care and that you have arranged the follow-up care since the first day of placement in the closed youth assistance. I think this is indeed the way to go. When placing in the form of a trajectory, you also work towards a reduction in the secrecy of the placement, on which Mr Raemakers made a comment, and work towards more small-scale facilities. If you do it in that triple, then you normalize the closed youth care and then you prevent it from being such a loose bastion, where you can't get away when you're inside. So I am very much in favour of that, and I also hope that this will be the development of content in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u29	I'm glad we agree on that. I therefore believe that we are getting rid of the recurring discussion of 'yes, but there is not enough money and there is not enough money'. We conclude here: it is not that simple and we cannot put it that way. And if we could put it that way, it's only true for a very limited part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u30	If only it were that simple indeed. I very much agree with you. I will be on these budgets in a moment, because we have to be very precise about that. Mrs Westerveld asked about the purchase: am I willing to address municipalities? Of course I'm prepared to do that. Look, there's just a youth aid obligation laid down in the Youth Act. I will return to those budgets in a moment, but the mere fact that you, as a municipality, feel that you have been given too little money, is no longer a reason why the duty of youth aid should cease to apply. It does not say in the law that there is a youth aid obligation, unless you believe that you have been given too little money. Or: there's a youth aid obligation, unless the Oisterwijk city council has taken a motion that they think they're getting too little money. That's bullshit. That's not how the law works, and that's not how care should work. There's a juvenile duty. Period. And the money, I'll get to that in a minute. By the way, municipal councils are quite critical. You may not be able to imagine it, but they are, if possible, even more critical than the House of Representatives when it comes to what kind of care was purchased and whether the system actually works. Not that it's an easy job for municipal councils, but municipal councils are sharp in the direction of their lectures. I enjoyed it for seven and a half years. So that also means that that's the first escalation. The second is: if that doesn't work, the support team can talk to municipalities. In the context of the Youth Care programme, we will have that team design and test with all regions and agreements whether these agreements are actually being met. If there is a dispute between providers and municipalities, for whatever reason, there may be dispute settlement. And if that is not enough, it is indeed my role to enter into conversation with municipalities. Then, in an extreme case, you can consider inter-administrative supervision. That is, as it is called extremely ugly, an "escalation ladder" to intervene. That system responsibility, at least the last two steps of it, lies with me. But I hope I don't have to use that much. That is in fact my answer to Mrs Agema's question, who asked how often this has proved necessary, for example in order to intervene in regional cooperation. This has not yet proved necessary, but in a number of regions we have, of course, been concerned about how cooperation is going there. Sometimes it may also be that it is a small scale of cooperation because regions, for example, have thought: well, we can also operate a little looser than each other, because a number of things are not going well. Sometimes these are administrative burdens, because different municipalities impose their own requirements on providers. But it can also be even more fundamental in the functioning of the system. And if that is the case, I would like to keep the provision in the law to force municipalities into regional cooperation. That's why you received that amendment of the law. Is that the only intervention we're gonna do? Certainly not, and I certainly do not believe that that is the only solution. On the contrary, but at least it is a possibility. If the problem is a lack of regional cooperation, then a solution is to be able to condemn one another for municipalities in a given region, in conjunction with inter-administrative supervision. Then I will continue with the budget block, Mr President, if that is all right with you and there are no further questions on the subject of waiting lists. A number of questions have been asked about the budgets for the social domain. First of all, I would like to emphasise what I said in the direction of Mrs Westerveld, namely that there is a duty of youth aid in the law. It doesn't say by the way: unless you think you don't have enough money. However, there are municipalities that feel that they have too little money. By the way, if you take a sec look at the income and expenditure of the youth section, you can also see that a number of municipalities there are right to feel that it is pinching. That has, of course, to do with the discount of recent years. In the previous cabinet period, 450 million savings were made on youth care. That's one. Two is: it also has to do with the new distribution model. There is a more objective distribution model set up on the predictors of expected youth care needs. This has led to the fact that there were municipalities that, historically, might have received more money than the number of young people in need of youth care made strictly necessary and that there were municipalities that were therefore too few. A correction shall be made. And that combination has both bad luck and bad luck in the distribution model, just to put it bluntly, and the discount can arrive in some municipalities. And then you also have that this is a problem in one municipality and is experienced as a problem, but not in other municipalities because they seem to be better able to anticipate it. That only looked at the youth care part. If you then zoom out and look at the broader social domain for which substantial budgets have gone towards municipalities since 2015, you can see that in municipalities where a shortage of youth is experienced, there can also be a surplus on Wmo, for example. The latest figures are from a while ago, so I'll be really careful in interpreting them, but the total net result in the social domain is still over a billion in plus. Municipalities always say that this does not take the full picture of reality. By the way, this reality has changed quite a bit in the last calendar year. Well, fair enough, so let's not put too much value on it. But for the time being, I can see no shortage of the total social area. At the same time, we do know that these deficit municipalities exist, and for that reason we have said that we need to set up a separate provision in the Inter-Governmental Programme for deficit municipalities. That is the 200 million Mr Raemakers also mentioned. This concerns a system for deficit municipalities. Perhaps even more important than that is the development of the Community Fund. We have agreed in the Inter-Governmental Programme that there is an enormous budgetary development of the Community Fund. How that happened is actually very simple. To date, we have always calculated the amount of the Community fund on part of the national budget. This cabinet has decided to join the coalition agreement, so we are faithfully saying that the basis on which the growth of the Municipal Fund is calculated and decided is widened. It is being widened with care and that is the huge budget of the United States of America and with social security, and that is the other huge budget in The Hague. They are added to that narrower part of the state budget. And all that goes up on the wider part of the state budget is thus everything; the expenditure, especially on the care side, therefore counts for the calculation of the level of the Municipal Fund. That is the best deal that municipalities could have made with anyone, because that simply leads to huge additional revenue for the coming years. If you look at that busted, you'll see it's about, grab it, 5 billion. This varies, of course, because the basis of calculation is adjusted a little every year, depending on economic growth and so on. But it's about about 5 billion in a number of steps. Let half of that be pay and price adjustment, so you can't do any more net things than you still have a big 2 billion left to help municipalities make progress. The history of the Gemeentefonds has never seen such a great growth as in this cabinet period. You could ask why the cabinet did that. Then why was this done in the coalition agreement? Shouldn't we have made a separate arrangement for the things you had to meet with the municipalities for deficits they have here and there? Yeah, you could have. That's right. But we have found that, if you take the congregations seriously as co-governments, you make the following arrangement with those fellow governments: we allow you to do your job, but the downside of that is that we are not going to make a separate arrangement for each individual thing. That means sometimes it's convenient and sometimes it's not convenient. I'll tell you what I'm gonna tell you. If the municipalities don't figure out one part of it, I expect them to write you a letter on that one part. But our answer to that letter will always be the broader story, and that is indeed about a greatly increased Community fund in the coming years, and that is also about the fund for the deficit municipalities. And that is still separate from the transformation fund, which is intended for the substantive development of the Care for Youth plan. Because that's three times 36 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u31	I actually have a practical question. It is very difficult for us to assess exactly where the deficits are if we do not get that insight. We have asked written questions about this before, and the Minister then gives the impression that it is indeed an incident or that it is sporadic to prevent shortages. Before we begin the debate on the evaluation of the Youth Act, can the Minister tell us how big these deficits really are? It is possible that a lot of extra money will reach the municipalities via the Municipal Fund, but also the costs for municipalities will increase considerably, not only in the case of youth care, but also in the case of home care, for example when we look at domestic help. Can the Minister, therefore, identify precisely where the deficits are and how large these deficits are?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u32	The Chamber has been given the inter-administrative program. Mrs Agema has already said that this should not have been sent to the Chamber by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but also by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Then I sent a letter myself with a reference to it. In this inter-administrative programme, a number of budgetary experienced problems have been mentioned by name and name, which also form the basis for the choice to broaden the basis for the accres. This concerns, for example, the shortage of youth aid, indexations, a new scale of wages for domestic aid, the possible behavioural effects of the subscription rate, Safe Home. So we have mentioned a number of topics in this context by name and by name. Then it was said what I also mentioned: are we going to make a separate arrangement for each subject or are we going to take each other seriously as co-governments and say that as a state government we are able to enable municipalities to do their work? If we opt for a broader basis, then with the growth of the state budget there is also a growth of the Municipal Fund, which enables the municipalities as a whole to do their work. That's one choice. The second choice is that deficit fund. The sum of this is an adequate answer, as I firmly believe, to the issues that local authorities in the social domain have here and there. Mr Hijink asks if I can get a better picture of that. I'm just thinking really hard about whether I can do that. The scheme for the deficit municipalities is the scheme for the distribution of those 200 million. It's designed by the VNG and I'm saying from my head that it's almost done. What I could add to what I just said is that I am showing you how the scheme for these deficit municipalities.... the application system is based on the experienced bottlenecks in the municipalities themselves. If I add that, I think I can fill in the answer to your question as well as I can. I am very prepared to forward this to you before the debate on the 'Care for Youth' programme takes place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u33	That was a very long answer and, above all, a response to the Minister's solution to experienced deficits, as he calls it. But that's not my question. My question is: can he just make it quite clear which municipalities are currently short on youth, but perhaps also on the rest of the social domain? He says there are a lot of municipalities where nothing's going on. Well, why don't you put that on the screen? Just give us an overview: these municipalities report a deficit, these municipalities report a surplus or come true. I just want that overview because otherwise I cannot judge whether the solution he is explaining here is a sufficient solution to the problem that I do not have the overview of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u34	What I can do is sketch and visualize what I just mentioned. There's one more addition to that, but I don't know how long it's gonna be, because that's just the regular reports. This supplement is about the exhaustion of the Municipal Fund Cluster Social Support and Youth. There was a surplus of 1.2 billion in 2015 and a surplus of 1.3 billion in 2016. I do not think we have had the figures for 2017 yet, because they are always delayed, but I would like to say that I will report on this to the Chamber as soon as we have those figures. By the way, I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs will do that anyway, but I have heard what Mrs Agema said earlier. So I am very willing to share that with you, but the idea that I could keep track of what a municipality spends on youth care without taking into account the context in which that happens, and the policy choices that a municipality makes, including for the rest of the social domain, is a fiction. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u35	Finishing, Mr. Hijink, and then I'll go to Mrs. Agema's.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u36	I just want it to be very concrete. Take, for example, the message we had about the province of Groningen. In the province of Groningen, the municipalities together find that they had a deficit of, I believe, 23.5 million in 2017 alone. If you're going to extrapolate a little... Perhaps we should not do that at all, because it is probably not that this applies automatically to the whole of the Netherlands, but I just want to know. This is happening in this region, but what about other regions? In which municipalities is it going well, where is it not going well? I find it very difficult to debate the evaluation of the Youth Act if we do not have this kind of figures. How can I then assess whether the proposal presented by the Minister is a solution to the enormous deficit that is already occurring in some regions at least now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u37	I'm just giving you the chunks of information that could be part of the answer to your questions. The first is the development of the Municipal Fund. That's a solution. It is not so much a thermometer to know how things are going, but it is the solution for the coming years, for most of the financial issues facing municipalities. That's one. Two are the deficit municipalities. What I have left is new information on how the scheme has been built. It is aimed at the deficit communities. You're damn right municipalities are hard on each other. If, as a municipality, you have not pursued such a good policy and it costs more money than needed, why should other municipalities have to pay for it? Of course, this is not how solidarity works. So the municipalities will be quite strict with each other. I could send the deficit settlement to the Chamber. A third element is that the Social Cultural Planning Bureau makes the overall annual report and that there was a strong surplus in the Municipal Fund Cluster Social Support in 2015 and 2016. We do not have the numbers for 2017, but as soon as they are inside, I can also send you that answer. Then you have the answer to your question in three parts. I think that with the sum total you can very well form an image of whether there is any overall problem here. Those figures only come at the end of 2018, they are rather delirious for a while. What we do not do is report at the level of individual municipalities. That has an important reason, namely that one can never look isolated, which has allowed a certain deficit to exist on a particular part of the budget. It is not for nothing that we transfer the youth care budget to the Gemeentefonds in 2019, making it simply an integral part of the Gemeentefonds. This leaves the decision on the total budget entirely to municipalities, because we think and think and are convinced that they are making the right choices. Moreover, I am very convinced from my own experience that city council members are at least as critical of their alderman as MPs are of their minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u38	Indeed, I asked earlier during a general consultation about peeling off the 5 billion. That's when 570 million came out. I think that was about housekeeping, I don't remember. But about that inter-administrative program, to which the minister referred back then, I went looking with my associate. We were gonna figure it out, but we couldn't find that whole peeling. I think the point made by Mr Hijink is the same as the point I made at the time. We have debates on fire letters every time, when we actually know nothing about the order of magnitude and do not know whether the deficits that are being discussed are real and real. That makes our control work more difficult. Actually, you don't want to stand here every time. It may be the tenth time since 2015 that we have been standing here on the basis of a burning letter! And that when there may be no shortage at all. That is why I support Mr Hijink's appeal. I think that, in order to move in our direction, the Minister should clarify the level of coverage of tariffs and amounts. I don't know if it should be at the municipality level or not. It's not just about the youth, but the minister started telling his story by saying: if they have a little boyfriend here, I want a really big bag of money. He always wants to be able to refer to that. But for us, it is very important to know more specifically so that we can keep our finger on the wrist and carry out that controlling task. In this way we can also ensure that there are fewer debates that may not be necessary at all, because the problem is not that big at all. But we can't test that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u39	I understand very well what Mrs Agema means, especially in relation to the supervisory role of the Chamber. I just mentioned some ingredients. Let me just take as a homework assignment that I will inform you as completely as possible about the way in which municipalities in the social domain are allowed to do their work. That is the crux of the matter. Then let us have the debate on whether you think the cabinet is doing enough. Let me at least take it with me to do so as precisely as possible. The figures for the exhaustion of the Gemeentefonds come only in 2018, so that takes too long. In fact, I think you want the sketch on my part before we discuss the Youth Care programme. I am going to send that sketch, the sum of our assessment of the experienced deficits, but above all our financial response to them, to you. Then, Mr President, I have one more matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u40	Yeah, but after the Raemakers have one last question about the block of budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u41	I waited because I thought the Minister might answer my question. I have also asked a question about the possibility that closed youth aid institutions may have financial deficits. This also applies, of course, to institutions for open youth aid and the Youth Ggz institutions. We've been talking all along about municipalities that may have deficits. Soon we won't be able to see what the amount of youth care is with that accres. How do we, the House of Representatives, know whether all these institutions are getting enough funding from the municipalities to meet their youth aid obligations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u42	It's kind of simple, actually. A judge imposes an authorization on a juvenile aid facility. There is a youth aid obligation for the municipalities. So municipalities have to provide closed youth aid. Period. Then we can discuss whether the tariff is sufficient. That is a discussion that I cannot, of course, be involved in, because that is simply a tender that a municipality makes, or a grant or any other form. However, that is the contractual relationship between a municipality or a region in this case and the provider of closed youth assistance. If there is a dispute between them, there is always the possibility of mediation. That possibility of mediation also remains. So, frankly, I don't think there's any such concern. By the way, as I have just said, closed youth care is often financed by PxQ. So there is just an amount against the number of places that are needed. There's just paid for a place there, so it's easier to say. Then, chairman, I come to the block of varia, with two more questions. The first question is from Mr Peters. It's about real alignment with the Wlz. I do not recognise the signal that by now all children would be covered by the Youth Act. In 2017, the CIZ granted access to the Wlz for more than 2,000 children. I do see that it is common for one municipality to recommend parents more often than the other municipality to go for an indication at the CIZ for the Long-Term Care Act. There must be some variation in practice, but that indication is rather strict. And an indication protocol is pretty tight. It concerns a permanent need for care, 24 hours a day, in the vicinity of a healthcare provider or with permanent supervision. There's actually a few things going on. Some municipalities think more quickly that a child is eligible for an indication from the Wlz and refer parents that way, after which the CIZ says: sorry, as far as we are concerned it is not so. For parents that is extremely annoying and sad, because that is just a "case to the wall" experience. Mrs Hermans asked questions about this in the previous debate. That's one. Secondly, what can sometimes give rise to a point of discussion is the question of what is common concern at a certain age or not. That is also a point of discussion. What the CIZ has done is that I think a sensible solution is that with those municipalities where more than usual rejections take place at the indication, it talks and investigates why it is so: who are the ones who apparently do that referral when it is not justified, why they do not just take care of youth aid themselves and what to do about it. There have been a number of expert meetings. At the moment there is an investigation into the "customer's trip" of parents and children when it comes to admission to the Wlz which then goes off, after which children still have to be led through the Youth Act. This research will be available in the autumn. I'd better inform you then. As far as Mrs Hermans is concerned, I have already promised during the previous debate that I will talk to the CIZ and the municipalities. That wasn't so much about children as about adults. How can the connection of the care you can expect from municipalities and the care you can expect from the Wlz be organised more structurally, so that we avoid the "from the cabinet to the wall" experience in parents? A final question from Mrs Tielen van de VVD on the effectiveness of the treatment of youth aid. I very much agree that we must, of course, have a clear view of effectiveness. Knowledge of the effectiveness of the action of youth aid in recent years has increased. Of course, the NJi has a nice overview of this on the website, with youth interventions that have been assessed for effectiveness. One of the actions in the Care for Youth programme is to invest in the development of a learning environment around children and families. Firstly, through a new knowledge development programme. What works in the care of the youth? I think that is the most precise answer to Mrs Tielen's question. This programme will start on 1 January under the guidance of ZonMw, with the aim of developing innovative methods that make the most of the possibilities of technology, digitisation, innovation, e-health and also optimally match the needs of children and families. The second is that we use existing academic workshops, the transformation of youth care, to develop new knowledge and skills. Third, of course, we are also working on more knowledge at the national knowledge institutes, including NJi, Movisie, NJC, KJP, Trimbos and Knowledge Centre LVB. Then there is the question: how do we ensure that the available knowledge is as well available as possible and that successful approaches are also accessible to other municipalities? Das war es.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u43	Thank you, Minister. There is another interruption by Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u44	I think there's been a question left. National youth organisations specialising, for example, in eating disorders, loverboy issues and such things, fear for their survival, not only for the sake of finance, but also for the fact that less and less is being referred to and even that agreements are being made in regions not to refer outside the region. I would like to hear from the Minister how he is going to ensure this important concern, but also this knowledge and expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u45	There is a nationwide agreement that very specialised forms of youth care remain nationally funded in the way that is happening today. In the Youth Care programme, we have agreed that we are going to have a very precise look at who belongs to it. This actually means that, regardless of whether there is a contract with an individual municipality, there are a number of institutions in the national arrangement that can simply allow any place to be financed from the municipality where the children come from. So, honestly, I don't share the fear. I don't see a fallback right now. Rather, I see the opposite: where it comes to eating disorders, I think we need a little extra offer. But if we are talking about a decline that is not sufficiently filled in locally or regionally, it could be a cause of the waiting list or at least a cause of the lack of youth assistance. That's why we're building an infrastructure with regional expert teams, working with complex casusism for which there's no place. Then there's a country club we're setting up right now. When expert teams say "I'm sorry, but in the region I really can't find that offer, there's no provider who has a real offer for this client, for this family," then it's nationalized to see who can best design that offer tailored. So, frankly, I think we are taking these measures to make the system work properly in this way too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u46	Maybe I should put it another way. It is said that, if we are not careful, these very specialised organisations may be gone in three years' time. Can the Minister at least promise for the coming years that we will not let it happen, on the left or right, that important specialist knowledge and care organisations will be turned upside down in any way and that we will not throw away everything that we have built up carefully in recent years? Can the Minister undertake to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u47	Yes, as long as you don't mean to interfere with the continuity of an institution. I don't think I should do that. But offer that is highly specialist but mostly low frequency, so very little is needed, is in a rural arrangement. We have done so in the last few days, and we will continue to do so. We are going to look again at the exact offer that needs to be kept between them. We have a support team to discuss the care landscape at the level of the region and see if there are white spots in it and what needs to be supplemented there. I agree perfectly with you: there is an offer that is available at a single institution or a few institutions and we cannot do without it at all. Of course, we are not going to let this go away. That is not a blank cheque for the budget, let me say that to the controllers of those institutions, through you, Mr President. There is an offer from a number of institutions where we simply cannot go without each other and there is no alternative. We will, of course, prevent that from falling over, certainly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u48	I still have a number of questions that I do not think have yet been answered. One was about the Minister's action plans. We have asked: can you not add to this with a number of very concrete objectives, so that after a number of years we can measure better whether we have achieved what we want? I had also asked a question about the action plan for young strays. There was supposed to be an investigation. That would have been sent to us at the beginning of the year, but I haven't seen it yet. Maybe I haven't been paying attention, but hopefully the Minister will know if that plan is already there. I have also asked a question about the policy of this minister and the policies of other ministries, which sometimes seem to be at odds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u49	The Youth Care Programme will have a fairly comprehensive monitoring. We recorded that, too. We want to get a good picture of a series of indicators. This concerns, for example, customer satisfaction or the national outcome criteria. Then it's also about the process agreements you make at regional level: is there an expert team, is there an approach waiting lists, are the waiting times transparent? It's about that kind of arrangement. We're gonna get a visual and we're gonna monitor it. It is also a question, for example, of the extent to which small-scale reception can actually be achieved. We shall therefore give a detailed picture of a large number of these types of results. I would like to report annually on this so that we can have that debate at least annually, not on the basis of N=1, but simply on the basis of a complete picture of the functioning of the overall system. Of course, the Minister bears the system responsibility, but so does the Chamber. Is the system working? That is what we must aim to visualize in an objective manner. We will also present this as objectively as possible, so that we can have the conversation about it at least annually. Then there was a question that was particularly about the wandering youngsters, I think. There was supposed to be an investigation. I'm getting a whisper that this investigation has yet to come. It has not yet been sent to the Chamber, but it will be sent to the Chamber in the near future. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs will send that to the Chamber, in cooperation with my colleague Blokhuis, who is in charge of social care, and with OCW. By the way, of course, I work with Mr Blokhuis when it comes to 18-min/18-plus. These are often young people who come from youth care through an authorisation of removal, ots or whatever. They have been forced into youth care and are actually freed from it when they turn 18. It is precisely for those young people that the 18th anniversary is an extremely vulnerable issue. It is not rare to try to live on your own, try to do it yourself, and then fail to do so, which is the reason to join that growing group of wandering youngsters. Although social care is the portfolio of Mr Blokhuis, I work closely with him to make that transition from 18-min to 18-plus more flexible. The cooperation with my colleagues is all about all the agreements we have made to ease 18-min to 18-plus. We are also looking at ways of adjusting the cost sharing standard. At the end of the year I come together with my colleagues from OCW, JenV and SZW to the Chamber with more information on this point. I think you would have asked one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u50	I think you've had all three of them, the action plans, the wandering young people and the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u51	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u52	Mrs. Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u53	I've missed an answer. The recommendations of the interim evaluation of youth protection identified a number of bottlenecks between the Youth Act and juvenile criminal law and health law. The question to the Minister is whether he wants to tackle and solve these bottlenecks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u54	I think you are referring to the differences in the legal status of children in the different laws. It is governed by different laws and we want to do so in one law. For the summer, you will receive the timetable for this harmonisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your first-term contribution. I'm going to the second term on the side of the Chamber. The first speaker is again Mr Raemakers of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u56	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I've heard a lot of good things, but I've come up with two motions to make it a little sharper. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas municipalities have a duty to provide youth assistance and support;]] [[Whereas, in view of the system's responsibility, the Empire must ensure that municipalities contribute to the achievement of the obligation to provide youth assistance;]] [[noting that there is a shortage of timely and appropriate youth assistance and therefore young people are staying longer than necessary in a closed youth institution;]] [[Calls on the Government to reflect on the frequency of renewal of an authorised youth aid scheme as there is no timely and appropriate youth assistance available at municipal level and to inform the Chamber before 1 January 2019;]] [[calls on the government to actively encourage the individual municipalities to take action, e.g. through the Youth Care Support Team,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Raemakers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-618]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u57	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas 500 juvenile attorneys have written a letter of fire about the longer than necessary stay of young people in a Youth Care Plus institution for closed youth assistance;]] [[Whereas a lighter form of family-oriented youth assistance, with more security measures, but with less for the younger far-reaching constraints, may provide a solution;]] [[calls on the Government, in line with the advice of the RSJ and the Youth Care Action Programme, to urgently examine and discuss with partners the option of "small-scale family-oriented services with a limited level of security," and to ask for input through participation with youth organisations to young people,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Raemakers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-619]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u58	This immediately leads to an interruption by Mrs Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u59	In the first term, Mr Raemakers asked the Minister what he thought of this type of small-scale, family-oriented facilities. I think the Minister has answered that very clearly. In the motion, Mr Raemakers makes the suggestion: Minister, go deal with it. I heard the Minister say in his first term that he wants to give more space to the regions. He says they're good facilities, I'm behind it, I want them to be able to do it, but I'm not gonna pull it at me. Does Mr Raemakers see that difference and how would he interpret it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u60	I'm sure I can see that difference. That is why I have formulated the motion in this way. I think it is positive that the Minister wants to make an effort to ensure that these small-scale facilities are made more effective. There are also a number of examples of this already happening. But what I still miss is that the Empire is going to make a more active contribution to creating these instruments. Of course, I listened carefully to the Minister when he said that it is difficult for me to give it a separate title legally, so that is not what I am asking for with this motion. But I do think that the Minister should take a little more direction than he has already done in his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u61	I do not think that is exactly what we have agreed on with this whole decentralisation approach. Then I wonder whether this is some sort of advocacy of Mr Raemakers. Is he going to instruct the Minister to take care of everything that Mr Raemakers has a good feeling about and which he thinks should be done more?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u62	In front of me, those children and young people are the first to get between ships. At the moment, we see that there are judgments from judges scattered all over the country, that this is a problem addressed. Of course it's very good that we... That is also my first motion, in which I say: we must encourage these municipalities to do better. But even so, I think that in our system too, that is also what the RSJ says, is not the least advisory body still a gap and that we, as a system responsible, as a Chamber and as a government, should take responsibility for these young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u63	Thank you, Mr. Raemakers. Then I shall go to the next speaker on the side of the Chamber. Mr Hijink waived the floor. Mrs. Agema from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't really want to make any more contributions until my eye fell on the letter we're discussing here tonight. It's actually incredibly clear. The letter begins with: "Over 500 juvenile criminal attorneys ring the bell. For a long time there has been a lack of adequate youth care for our underage clients." They conclude that letter with the words: "Watch out the urgent situation outlined, we call on the Minister of the United States to take urgent action" not after further investigations, Mr Raemakers, and not after further debates and evaluations, dear House of Representatives "to take measures to give these children the assistance and care they are entitled to. It cannot be the case that inadequate procurement policies and lack of expertise, capacity and money ensure that children and their foster or step-parents remain in the cold." While I am still reading that letter, Mr President, I have only one question left for the Minister. Can these juvenile attorneys consider their letter as resolved, or will we receive another letter like this in a few months' time? That is my final question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u65	Thank you. I'm going to Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the answers. I am particularly pleased that there is going to be a little more clarity about the finances of municipalities, because I think that colleagues from the SP and the PVV are right that it is very difficult to assess whether those fire notes are correct and the signals we get from the municipalities. So I am very curious about the answers. I would also like to ask the Minister... I was considering a motion, but I agree with Mrs Agema that we should look forward to further research and that things should be done now in particular. So I would very much like to give the Minister a chance to really sit down with his colleagues from other ministries to see where those bottlenecks are in legislation and regulation. I would like to make one motion on this, and this one: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of young people who have strayed is increasing;]] [[Whereas young people receiving youth assistance should live at home for as long as possible;]] [[Whereas the cost sharing standard is contrary to the Minister's objective of growing children as "at home" as possible;]] [[noting that bbl students and students at HBO and university are excluded from the cost sharing standard;]] [[calls on the Government to also exempt young people receiving youth aid from the cost sharing standard,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-620]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u67	That was my contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u68	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mr. Peters of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u69	Thank you, Mr President. The chair is high enough. I'll be fine, because it's only short. Your Excellency, thank you very much for answering the questions. I was thinking at the beginning of this debate that it was a little premature, because we are going to talk about this in the really big debate in a few weeks' time. I've gotten quite a bit wiser on it today, as a result of the letter of fire. The letter of fire was indeed quite clear. It is clear that children who are locked cannot easily flow out. We've been looking into what that might be. It could of course be that the budget of municipalities is insufficient. I believe that this question has been answered clearly, and that is made even more clear in writing: it cannot really be that. I asked if it could be something with Wlz or youth detention. No, actually, it can't be that. Could it be waiting lists and where are they? That's very complicated. There are several waiting lists and there is mismatch. There are all kinds of possibilities. It's very complicated. There is also a great deal of pride in solutions and possibilities, from expert tables to ultimately referring to the minister himself, to do so. It remains to be seen that there is a fire note and that these children are not sufficiently placed. In any case, I welcome the direction the Minister shares with me: to place only in closed sections as part of a journey. In any case, I shall go into this in more detail at the next meeting. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u70	Thank you. There are a number of questions and a number of motions on the part of the Chamber. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. He seeks his papers together and can immediately proceed to the answer and appreciation of the motions. I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u71	Mr. Chairman. I've actually lost the most beautiful annotations, so I'm gonna have to do it a little freestyling. If it's very wrong, I'd like to hear it. I shall begin with the first motion for a resolution, which I shall take up immediately, and that is Mr Raemakers' motion in respect of item No. 618. This calls for an initial picture of how often it actually happens that an authorization should be granted by the judge because there is actually no appropriate follow-up aid, i.e. to objectify the letter of fire as we have had it, and to encourage, if there are individual municipalities there, measures to be taken by the Youth Support Team. I would really like to leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber, because I am interested with you in the objectification of that letter of fire. That's one. Two is actually even more important than that: that what you point out, that is, casuism which is apparently difficult to resolve, is often a sign that some of the agreements have not yet come to fruition. Does that regional expert team actually work in a good way? Is there really a perseverance force invested in a region? In short, I would like to leave the judgment to Chamber, because I like to work on it. The second motion by Mr Raemakers, the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Raemakers on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Raemakers, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 619, in line with the advice of the RSJ and the Youth Action Programme, the Government invites the Government to urgently examine and discuss with the partners the small-scale family-oriented facilities I would also like to leave the opinion to the Chamber, but I would like to take over from Mrs Tielen's warning. We are going to talk very regularly about youth care in the coming years. As far as I am concerned, we are not going to interfere with the important starting point of decentralisation. I think that we need to consider in more detail here the assessment of the law and the provision of programmes for young people. There is decentralisation, the fact that we have asked municipalities to give this integral care that 'one family, one plan, one director'. I very much feel the need to strengthen that in the years to come, but I do not feel the need to do anything about it. Where we can support municipalities to learn from each other, where we can make agreements to also cooperate with each other above-regionally and where we can reduce administrative burdens through standardisation, we all have a task to improve the system. And again, the system only works well when children, parents and people working in youth care notice that too. So that's the most important touchstone for our approach Care for Youth. But let's be careful to take over the work of municipal councils here, let's be careful to make national orders here where you send me on the road to get it kicked out of the ground in those municipalities for a while. I believe that this does not do justice to the municipal councils, does not do justice to the municipalities, and I also think that it does not do justice to the way in which we set up the system. Having said that, I think that it is precisely when it comes to renewing closed youth care that is a type of youth care that often has a very above-regional function that can of course help if I make a plan with the regions how we could do that. In fact, that plan must take place in the regions, because that means that I come to Mr Peters' point where closed youth care remains a phenomenon that is separate from the rest of the system, it will always be the case that there is a problem of connection between closed youth care and follow-up care. Where closed youth care succeeds in being truly part of the care landscape in a region and embedded in it, there are opportunities to organise trajectory care much better, where you also arrange follow-up care at once, actually from day one of entry into closed youth care. So I believe in a plan that is embedded in the region, and that's what I'm going to talk to congregations about. So if I may judge Mr Raemakers' motion with the warning words of Mrs Tielen, then I can leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u72	Mr. Raemakers is going to report whether you're allowed to do so, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u73	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u74	I fully understand what the Minister means, and I also understand what Mrs Tielen has just said. It is not the case that we want to reverse decentralisation; that is certainly not the intention. So maybe I can clarify the motion a little bit more to indicate what I mean. Indeed, the section "to be examined urgently" may seem a little too much as if it should be repeated for all municipal councils tomorrow. I would like to make of this "to examine and reach a national standard before 1 January 2019, and to discuss this with the partners." I hope to respond to the Minister's concerns by amending it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u75	I do not know whether that motion will necessarily improve, because you are actually making the demands a little bit more. No, watch out for all the orders, because I don't think we should want to do it that way. The Youth Care Programme states that in each region there is a plan of action to achieve small-scale "as home as possible" facilities, including closed youth care with or without a limited level of security. It's not like you're just gonna stomp those provisions out of the ground. Look at the facilities we have at that level: Spirit Amsterdam, De Hoenderloo Groep, De Glind. These are amenities that have been pounded out of the ground with a lot of blood, sweat and tears, and there too, it is quite complicated because it is about the question: do you actually have people in youth care who have enough strength to take such complex young people together in such a singing setting? So what I would like to do with municipalities, with the regions, with those closed-down care providers, is to develop that type of provision. That requires thoroughness, that requires creativity and also space in mind to think about it. And I don't know if an order will help with that: before January 1st there has to be a plan and a national approach or a national blueprint, I don't know the word anymore. Please, let's not do it like this. Let us just get to work, put support team with the regions to work, involve providers, involve young people. So I'd like to take over that part of the motion. If I interpret it "as a matter of urgency" somewhat relaxed, I can actually get out of my way with the current wording of your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u76	Then the question remains whether Mr Raemakers will approve this interpretation, otherwise I will ask the Minister what else his opinion is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u77	Yeah, I thought I was making it easier for the minister, but that doesn't turn out to be the case. Well, let me reverse my amendment. If the Minister can do the best with the original text and his explanation he has just given, then we will stick to the original text as it was delivered on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Agema asked an important question: has this actually solved the issue that the letter was about? That is, of course, the question. I am convinced that we have indeed provided an important solution that the juvenile lawyers are asking for. Apart from the question of how often this happens, and all those issues that are also very important, we are talking about the following. If a juvenile attorney defends a client who is indeed involved in extending his authorization because there was no proper follow-up care, does that lawyer know where to go? I think we secured that. In each region, there must be a regional expert team to set that offer on fire. In each region there must be perseverance to keep that offer and say 'and now it must be there'. We have discussed this in detail with the lawyers we spoke with on behalf of the 500, but we will repeat the explanations at their own Members' meeting. I think we have chosen a very practical interpretation. Again, should they not come out and everything has been tried, please email me. This also applies to what you get in the mailbox. I'm just gonna say it again: email me, because I'd like to get on with it. In any case, such a case must of course be resolved, because the system only works when people notice it. On the other hand, it's also a test case, you might say. If it doesn't work in a particular region, it's a good reason to find out what's not actually working.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u79	Wouldn't it be better instead of waiting for something to happen in the mailbox, to contact the people who speak on behalf of this 500 and to send a letter to the Chamber about the follow-up, about the outcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u80	Fine, good idea. Then there is Mrs Westerveld's motion to item No. 620. It also asks the government to exempt young people receiving youth aid from the cost sharing standard. That's a little complicated, of course. That is a motion in the area of Social Affairs. We're looking at that cost-sharing standard. I have indicated that at the end of the year, together with the Social Affairs colleague, we will come back to the question of what we can do for young people who come from youth care, especially in relation to the theme of young people who are strays, which you have raised a number of times. This is also a point that emerged from the Young Adult Summit we have had. That is why we are working on this in the framework of all kinds of agreements that we make around 18-min and 18-plus. I've already told you that. I'll report back to you on the outcome of that. In that sense, this motion is a little premature. Now I can ask you to hold the motion, but that might well be until the end of the year. If you are not prepared to do so, I must discourage the motion for now, because I find it somewhat categorically worded. But know that I'm working on it and I'd like to get back to the Chamber on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u81	The Minister could, of course, simply see this motion as a support in the back. I do not have the impression that the problems of the cost sharing standard lie with this minister but with another ministry. Then the Minister might also think: well, how nice of the Chamber to give its opinion on this, so I can get to work on it, in line with the outcome of the Young Adult Summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u82	It is quite possible to work with colleagues or to have the conversation with fellow departments, without having to do so because of a motion. In fact, we've already decided to have that conversation with each other. We have a work programme 18-min/18-plus. We're looking at the cost-sharing standard. So I don't necessarily need an encouragement to start that conversation, although very sympathetically meant. We're having the conversation. The point is that the outcome of that conversation does not follow until the end of the year. The motion doesn't have much to do with that or anything. You can arrest her. Then this is your marked position until we come up with the outcome. Now, if you insist on putting her to the vote, I'll advise against her for the moment. I do not rule out the fact that we are going to do it or that we are going to do it for part of this group, but for the moment I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u83	I'm gonna think about what the Minister just said, but I'd think that a Chamber speech is just a little support. A ruling in the Chamber is, of course, also something that we ask the cabinet to work on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u84	Thank you. I'll see if all the questions have been answered. I don't see anyone sitting on the tip of his chair running fast to the microphone. We have come to the end of this debate. I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-31-tweedekamer-12.u85	The vote on the motions will take place next Tuesday.
