ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the VAO Turkey. I would like to welcome the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, as well as the Members of Parliament and the viewers at home. Four speakers have spoken, each with two minutes' speaking time. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Last week we had a debate on Turkey and its democratic state. It's incredibly bad shape. Since the failed coup attempt and the state of emergency, President Erdogan has made every effort to establish his dictatorship. Tens of thousands of people have been arrested, more than 100,000 have been dismissed, human rights defenders have been imprisoned, as well as the entire opposition. A free press is no longer there, everything is deteriorating, except the refugee deal, which is of course still standing but is threatened with. That's not the only thing. He is not only upset with Europe but also with the neighbours and NATO. He's trespassing on Syria illegally. Mr. Chairman. The worst part is that in less than two weeks' time there will be presidential elections and he's also got his opponents in jail. We are free to speak, but our fellow MEPs are in prison there. So is presidential candidate Selahattin Demirtas. Of course, the campaign has exploded, and President Erdogan's latest election promise is that he will hang his opponent, who is now in prison, when he is elected and passes the death penalty. The least we can do here is make sure that our cabinet insists on his immediate release. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that parliamentary and presidential elections are held in Turkey on 24 June, but that elected parliamentarians, including presidential candidate Selahattin Demirtas, have been unjustly imprisoned as a result of which the opposition cannot carry out its democratic tasks in that country;]] [[calls on the Government to contact Turkey as a matter of urgency, even before the parliamentary and presidential elections later this month, and preferably with as many like-minded countries as possible, in order to call for the immediate release of Selahattin Demirtas and other parliamentarians unjustly imprisoned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut, Mr Asscher and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32735-191]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you. It is not very often that a contribution from the SP, in this case by Mrs Karabulut, could almost have been expressed by myself. That is the case here. I think the analysis is correct and I understand the call, which we all supported during the debate. The only question is whether it is wise to table this motion. That's where we part ways a little bit. For the government has clearly indicated what it has already done to bring closer to the objective that Mrs Karabulut and I believe we all share in this Chamber: Selahattin Demirtas and, by the way, a few other fellow Members from prison. The EU has also expressed its views on several occasions. After the arrest, Mogherini clearly emphasised the immunity of parliamentarians. There is also a very critical opinion of the Venice Commission of 14 October 2016 on the waiver of that parliamentary immunity. On 7 July last year, Mogherini expressed her concern about the detention of these specific parliamentarians. The Dutch embassy goes to almost all court hearings to express our concern there. It has also been promised that the Netherlands will again express that concern at the RAZ of 26 June. But there is insufficient support, as the petitioner knows, for a call for immediate release. As a parliament, we also have opportunities. We have the NATO Assembly. I searched the press myself in Istanbul to make this clear. There are colleagues in the Council of Europe who are doing this. I would like to see us not split up now by a motion whose objective is supported by everyone, but where it simply seems, because of the unfeasibleness of this alleyway, that this Parliament is divided, while we would all like to support Mrs Karabulut's appeal. I believe that there are more effective methods of releasing fellow MEPs who do not go further through the government. He's already doing everything in her power.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u4	Thank you. You've come to the end of your input with that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u5	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u6	There are a lot of ways, and we need to take advantage of all the ways. But I do not understand why Mr Ten Broeke fully supports my efforts and then it would not be possible for our cabinet, alone with other countries, to make this appeal. This call is now needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u7	That call is needed. That's what we did. The government has done that, repeatedly. We have all supported them. But by submitting this motion now, you run the risk of watering the call here. Because you know very well that a number of parties may not support them, not because of the goal we all share, but simply because of their practical unfeasibleness. For Mrs Karabulut, practical feasibility may not always be a political objective high on the list of priorities, but it is for a very large part of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u8	Mrs. Karabulut, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u9	I'm really curious... This is pure nonsense, which Mr Ten Broeke says about practical feasibility. If the cabinet wants to do so, if the VVD Group is serious about human rights and it supports this, then it can support this and take this action. Is Mr Demirtas free to do so? No. Did we support him with that? Yes. Did we send a signal with that? Absolutely. Are there any other countries to be found? No doubt. If there aren't, should we leave it? No, why? Can Mr Ten Broeke give me the real reason why he refuses to support this motion, if he agrees? Then the cabinet may refuse, but as a Chamber we say: we will not be divided; cabinet, do this!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u10	I believe that twice, not only in my own contribution to the debate but also in the reply, I have indicated why I do not think it is effective. Now I can do that for a third time, but what I find so regrettable is that Mrs Karabulut lingers in the intentions. We share the intentions, Mrs Karabulut. I am the last person to speak to you on this matter, since I am also speaking on your behalf, I hope, and others in this Chamber, as leader of the Dutch delegation of the NATO Assembly in Istanbul, have addressed the Turkish 'friends' at the NATO meeting, and have also sought the press. Now you're addressing me because my intentions wouldn't be right. That's always the annoying thing about this kind of debate. It is not about taking each other's measure; it is about looking for a method that is as effective as possible. You have heard in the debate time and time again, not only from the government, but also from others: don't do that, because you may not be able to get everyone behind you. That has nothing to do with the intentions; they are all the same. It has nothing to do with the goal we share, but it has to do with the assessment of effectiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u11	Thank you. No, Mrs Karabulut, we are not going to do the debate again. You have expanded...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u12	I'd like to make a personal statement, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u13	You can make a personal statement at any time. I'll put your microphone back on. Could you please go back to the chair, Mr. Ten Broeke?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u14	Oh, yeah. For a personal fact, I am happy to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u15	Look. Go ahead, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u16	We can disagree on this. Mr Ten Broeke can act as if he can predict the future and define what happens when the government implements this motion. I cannot do that, and Mr Ten Broeke cannot tell me either. But Mr Ten Broeke should not blame me and use words like'stay' in this kind of reasoning or 'disrupting', and then do exactly what he blames us for, namely let us break up. It's okay, but I don't think it's fancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u18	I find this way of debating extremely unpleasant. Then he just has to be a guy and say: the VVD Group is not going to support this motion, despite the fact that we support the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u19	Thank you. You've made your personal statement. I'll give you a chance to respond briefly, Mr. Ten Broeke, but I wouldn't advise you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u20	No, I'll take your advice, because I didn't see any personal fact in it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u21	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Maeijer of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u23	In the direction of the Chamber, I say the following. There's someone who wants to make her contribution now. I'd appreciate it if you'd listen to her contribution, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Thirteen years ago, the accession negotiations with Turkey were launched. It is now time to recognise that this was a blunder and that we are once again saying that Turkey has nothing to do with the European Union. That's why I'm filing the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the opening of accession negotiations with Turkey was a historic error;]] [[noting that Islamic Turkey is further away from the rule of law and democracy than ever before;]] [[calls on the Government to use the Dutch veto in the negotiations on the new MFF to ensure that Turkey's accession to the EU and pre-accession aid to Turkey are terminated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32735-192]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u25	My second and final motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the EU is talking to Turkey about visa liberalisation;]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to the introduction of visa-free travel for Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32735-193]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am replacing my colleague Pieter Omtzigt for a positive reason: he has gone home to congratulate an abiturist there. Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the letter on the outstanding questions. The EU has delivered 82 armoured vehicles to Turkey as pre-accession aid. The Turkish government says she's sticking to the rules. Our question to the Minister is: who checks whether it is? Is that what's happening? If so, what are the findings of the audit? I'll get on the visa. The CDA Group thanks the government for its commitment not to take steps towards visa liberalisation, because Turkey does not fulfil the conditions. That is quite right. We shall therefore hold the government to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u27	There's been an interruption by Mrs Karabulut. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u28	Mr Omtzigt supported the appeal to the government that I have just tabled in a motion, including in the debate. Can I count on the support of the CDA Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u29	I will read the motion in a moment, because I was not in the debate you had. I shall then discuss it with Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u30	This motion concerns an appeal from our government to the Turkish authorities for the immediate release of the presidential candidate and other political prisoners in Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u31	Yes, I've heard about it. The motion is now being distributed. Then I can read it and discuss it with Mr Omtzigt in the course of the week. We'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u32	Thank you. The Minister has indicated that she needs a few minutes to respond to the questions put and the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u33	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u34	Thank you, Madam President. I know that this Chamber in last week's AA has had ample opportunity to exchange views with Minister Blok. The Minister returned to some of the commitments in a letter this morning. With that link, I would like to join Mrs Karabulut's motion. in piece No. 191 the annotation that we are naturally sympathetic to the thrust of this motion. If this motion is adopted, the government is of course prepared to contact as many like-minded countries as possible in order to move together towards Turkey. We also want to stress, of course, that elections must be conducted freely and fairly. We are also always calling for respect for the immunity of Members of Parliament. Having said that, let us leave this motion to the judgment of the Chamber. The motion in part No. 192 by Mrs Maeijer is about ending Turkey's accession to the European Union. You already know that the government has indeed been committed to ending pre-accession aid to Turkey, but the outline of this under the MFF makes a link that is not currently being discussed. We therefore advise against this motion. The Maeijer motion in part No. 193 asks the government not to agree to visa-free travel for Turkey. There are 72 benchmarks and, as the Chamber knows, all the conditions must be met. This must be applied strictly and fairly and for the time being there is no visa-free travel from Turkey. We therefore reject this motion in the light of the points I have just made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u35	Thank you. That's short but powerful. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u36	Voting on the motions tabled will take place tomorrow. I thank the Minister; I just saw a little bit of her. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
