ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now turn to Mr Kerstens, on behalf of the PvdA, for his questions to the Secretary of State for Defence, whom I would like to welcome, on the need for a much better response to harassment and abuse within Defence. Before I give you the floor, Mr. Kerstens, you really must stick to the subject. Last time you also had oral questions, but then you asked a question on another subject. So stick to the subject, or I'll take action. Mr. Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. If you become a soldier, then you do so because in the extreme you are willing to go to the extreme, to make the ultimate sacrifice and to give your life for your and my safety and for our children's. If you are willing to do so, then you deserve respect and appreciation from all of us and certainly from the top of your own organization: in the way you are rewarded, in the way you are enabled to do your job and in the way you are handled when your safety is at risk, not only outside the battlefield against the enemy, but also inside your own organization, sometimes by your own colleagues. That respect and appreciation; that's what soldiers are asking for. Unfortunately, they have to ask for it, because it doesn't seem to come naturally. Because you're being offered a wage that doesn't fit all the fine notes and promises. Because you are being sent out with too little or inadequate material and material. Or because you're not taken seriously when you stand up for your own safety in your own organization. In an 83-page report that contains no less than 10 pages of conclusions and recommendations, the internal security culture of the Defense Department is being hacked. It may have been laid down in one hundred and one different protocols and processes, but in practice it is lacking. The Giebels Committee, which wrote that report after extensive research, even concludes that failure to report incidents is better for you or to report them, because bullies are protected and detectors are excluded. That's really insane, of course. And everything has to do with the culture at Defense, with the trust, the lack of trust among many men and women of Defense in their own organization. Mr. Chairman. How is the Secretary of State going to regain that trust? Breder: how does she finally give the men and women of Defense in the field and in the barracks the respect and appreciation they deserve, also in this area. Not with fine words, notes, plans or promises, not in two years' time, not even next year, but now? Specifically?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-4.u3	I now turn to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. Mr Kerstens also asked written questions on the same subject on 15 October. I'll answer that as well, because you'll have the meeting with the Geebels Committee tomorrow. I think it is a good thing to stress that we, as the Defense Department, have asked for this investigation. As a result of the discussion about what had happened in Schaarsbergen, we considered it important to do research: what is the state of our culture, precisely to ensure that security? How's our reporting system? What's that all about? But also: how did we arrange aftercare with each other? And the conclusions are indeed hard and quite firm. Because if the conclusion is that it's better for you not to report, than to expose something, then something's not going well. In my first reaction to this report, which I also sent to the Chamber, I indicated that we are doing at least two things. Because culture is about the organization and is about people themselves who work in such an organization. The Goebels committee also says that it starts with all executives, from low to high and from high to low. They need to feel like they own. They must start with the sense of standard. What do we think of each other as normal? What behavior do I accept, whether I'm in Afghanistan, or just at the barracks in Oirschot, or just at the airport base in Leeuwarden? What's normal? What do I do when I see things that I may not think are so normal? How am I going to discuss that? Then I see, like the Geebels Committee, two things arise within the Defense Department. Either one trivializes, or one immediately makes it very formal. That also shows how difficult it is for executives. Black and white discussions are very easy. If someone does something that is clearly an overrun, it will be dealt with. But it's the big grey areas that matter. What one thinks is normal, the other doesn't think it's normal. That is precisely why we are discussing the cultural aspect with the Defence Organisation in connection with the Gibels Committee. And unfortunately, culture is something you do not regulate with a code of conduct and not with a code of conduct. You yourself have already indicated that we have thousands of clues. This is about behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-4.u5	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-4.u6	This is about a safe place for the 4,000 people who come in every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-4.u7	I just said that the people of Defense have little confidence in the leadership of their organization and how that leadership deals with complaints, for example, with serious complaints. They have now been proved right in that, also in the report of the Giebels Committee. I would like to know from the Secretary of State why she is so stubbornly clinging to the exclusive nature of the organization, within the Ministry of Defence, of a hotline where people can go without fear when something has happened to them. The fact that she is holding on to that, at least in view of her first written response, seems to me to be. That actually makes the butcher approve his own meat. It would have made much more sense to have such a hotline truly independent, so outside the Defence Organization. If necessary, in conjunction with an internal step preceding that? The Goebels Committee has said a few things about this, the trade unions have said a few things about it. And when I talk to people from the Defense Department myself, I hear that they would prefer that too, precisely because the willingness to report will not increase if you have to report within the organization in which you have so little confidence. I think it would be better to design such a hotline, whether or not part of it, outside of the Defense Department. Also because I think it is a way for the Secretary of State to show that she takes her people seriously, the people who have so little faith in their own organisation. The DOD summit has a trust problem with a lot of DOD people. You have a conflict with trade unions about the collective agreement and now something is threatening to happen around a deterioration in the pension of military workers. Why don't you take this simple opportunity to contribute to restoring the trust of your own people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-4.u8	What you break down in 25 years, you don't build up in a year or build up in the years to come. Of course, you will have to work on this with each other and with that organisation. It is exactly what you say: in an organisation of more than 55,000 people you should make people feel safe and you should make sure they know where to report. One of the conclusions of the Gibels report is that we have too many hotlines and too many procedures. You don't actually see the forest through the trees anymore. That is why we are going to one independent hotline, which is given far more powers than hitherto. Then you can still report to your commanding officer, but you can also separate yourself from your commanding officer and expose things. It's part of a professional organization. It would be very crazy to say that culture is no longer one of us. It would be crazy to say: if we see something, we put it outside the organization and we have to do research outside the organization. No, I think you should get a professional organization to provide that safe environment. People can rely on the employer in such an organisation, and they can trust that safety is provided. In such an organisation, you need to be able to shape an internal hotline that operates independently. This happens in many organisations. We are looking into it, also in connection with the Giebels Committee, whether we can organise a national hotline. If you don't come out internally, you should be able to bring it up at a state-wide hotline. Such a hotline should therefore not only work for the Ministry of Defence, but also for other departments, where there are also problems of this kind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-4.u9	One sentence, because you only have 12 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-4.u10	We've been here a lot in Defense Question Time. Each time, I make suggestions to the Secretary of State to restore confidence to the men and women of Defense. Whether it is the collective agreement, the pension scheme or such an external hotline. If the Secretary of State does not want to appear here every two weeks in Question Time, then I think she really needs to come up with something else. Then she really needs to put people on one. I have the next question, if I may ask one more. Why doesn't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-4.u11	Well, no. Thank you. You may respond, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-4.u12	I am particularly counting on Mr Kerstens' support for investments in the defence sector. You can show this in the coming period, and we have shown this in the pension scheme, for example, in which, unlike all other state-owned schemes, substantial investments have been made. I hope that we can achieve this, especially for all those soldiers who deserve a good pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you.
