ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u1	This is a special moment. The next item is the proposal for a law of Members Van Oosten, Keikhuizen and Grothuizen amending Book 1 of the Civil Code and any other laws relating to the revision of the system of partner alimony, Kamerstof 34231. I welcome the initiators and congratulate them and their staff, because it requires a lot of work from Members of Parliament to present their own legislative proposal. But it's always very much appreciated. So thank you for that. They are taking place today in Box K, which is normally reserved for the members of the Cabinet. So today Members of Parliament are sitting there because they have written a bill of their own. And they are supported in the defense of their bill by Carlijn van der Vegt-Boshouwers, family law attorney, Paul van der Ploeg, divorce expert and Jasper Boon, policy officer of the VVD group. I would like to welcome these people, too, today. Finally, I would like to welcome the Minister for Legal Protection. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Of course, I would also like to welcome the spokesmen of the various parliamentary groups. They will respond to the bill. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The response will be discussed at a later date in consultation with the initiators. We shall now proceed to that first term on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u2	I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u3	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u4	I see that you did not count on that, but you really are the first speaker on the list, so you are the first to speak. The expectations are high; of course you can understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Yeah, that's a surprise indeed. But I'll make the most of it. Let me also begin by thanking the proposers very much for the many work they have done. I understand that it is a proposal that they have also taken on board from their political predecessors, and in which they have now stopped a great deal of work to bring it to a successful conclusion. The proposal we are discussing today is far-reaching. It has a huge impact on people who are in a very vulnerable period of their lives, namely the moment of separation. In that case, fixed assets fall away, then a joint history is closed and the future is often still very uncertain. Apart from emotions, a lot of practical arrangements have to be made: a move, a division of the property, the discussion of the financial picture. Today we limit the discussion to the rights and obligations of ex-lovers in relation to partner alimony. The financial obligations due to the cost of living for the children are discussed at another time, I understand. As I said, I would like to thank the authors very much because they have presented this proposal and also because they have really made every effort to bring it to a successful conclusion. They have taken an important step in this direction. They have listened very carefully to the criticisms that have been made, including the previous proposals. For example, it was initially the idea that partner alimony should be seen as compensation for the loss of earning capacity incurred during marriage as a result of the joint choices made. That was a very impractical proposal, because there were a lot of hooks and eyes on it. I think it is wise that therefore the choice has been made to leave the basis of partner alimony unchanged, and that this is about constant solidarity. The core of the scheme we are discussing today is a reduction in partner alimony from a maximum of 12 years to a maximum of five years. Of course, there are other things, such as a hardness clause in which customization is possible to fix an unreasonable situation, but I want to focus on the rule, namely up to five years of partner alimony. The idea of shortening the duration of alimony is that both partners are adult people who in principle have to be able to provide their own livelihood, and that five years is sufficient transitional period to adjust your standard of living to the level you can provide yourself. My group supports this reduction in principle. But we are not blind to the consequences and the extra effort that the government requires. For, Mr President, contrary to what the proposers seem to suggest, I think there is a reasonable chance that there are more women than men who are financially worse off because of this proposal. I ask the proposers to reflect on that. For they say in the note to the report that there is a trend, especially among younger generations, that care tasks are being distributed more evenly and that women are catching up with men in terms of income position. But, Mr President, this is really too light for me. For do the proposers really think that in the foreseeable future the care responsibilities between men and women will be equally divided? I think stereotypes and role patterns are a lot more persistent. They make it difficult to assess the freedom of choice of partners. Because, yes, a lot of women choose to work less and take more care of their children, and that is their own choice that I really respect. But at the same time, we are all children of our time and our culture. Role patterns affect those choices, how we find the good life that we want to lead. As a result, for a long time it will be the case that women in marriage with children will work less than their husbands and on average they will take care of the children more often. Then I would like to ask the authors whether they agree with me that this will have an impact on women's earning capacity if they have not worked or have worked for a long time and that these consequences will be permanent. Doesn't it make sense to assume that by shortening the partner alimony more people will eventually call on the assistance than before? I'd like to hear from the Minister how he sees this. In fact, I found the financial picture of this legislative proposal still lacking in that respect. This proposal is so difficult, because it can actually contribute to a change in thinking, which is another step towards a different future and can contribute to greater economic independence for women, by stressing that everyone has to leave their own pants on. At the same time, however, many women are not yet economically independent. So I think it is right and fair to acknowledge that we are all in our stomachs with that. My group welcomes the proposals to at least spare the group of older ex-partners. It is very difficult for them to find paid employment when they are out of work for so long. I would like to hear why a solution has been chosen, if I read it correctly, in which a maximum of 10 years of partner alimony is given instead of the 12 years they are entitled to under the current regime. Then, Mr President, my main point. I find a longer alimony for partners who care for small children suddenly a very strange duck in the bite. Because if I understand correctly, a maintenance obligation can be imposed until the children are 12 years old. But why is that justified? What's the idea back there? I don't think it's about compensation for the loss of earning capacity. Because if that were the argument, it should apply to all those who care for children up to 12 years old, even if the divorce takes place only when the child is eight years old. Is it true, then, that I would like to ask the proposers, that it is not a question of lower earning capacity after the long years of care, but that it is a question of combining work and care well and that, because it is so difficult, it is often chosen that one partner should pay more attention to the children than the other? I think all parents can talk about it that sometimes it's hard. But with that, this bill is tied to two legs. Because we pretend to live in a new social reality, in which men and women are equally concerned and in which they keep their own pants, but because of that separate clause for parents with children under the age of 12, we also recognise that it is not really that easy. My group therefore considers it crucial to do more to achieve this other social reality by identifying and taking action on the obstacles to genuinely fair sharing of labour and care between men and women. Because if we do not, I fear that women in particular will pay the bill for this proposal. But if we do, this extra effort and mapping, my group is confidently supporting this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you very much for your contribution. I call Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you. First of all, I warmly endorse the compliments made by the President and previous speakers to the initiators and their expert support. An initiative law is a lot of work and a long process, and then the law has been substantially changed during the process. The SP also believes that the proposal has improved. We have asked many critical questions about, in my view, dubious elements of the original legislative proposal. They have now disappeared, such as the new basis and the level of alimony, which remains as it is. The role of new partners is also unchanged. For example, there are other examples of elements on which we have asked critical questions, which have now disappeared. It is good that the SP has been listened to when it comes to adopting the proposal to include the justification in future. This was introduced by letter of amendment. Alimony rulings shall include the calculation of need and carrying capacity. We have often drawn attention to this in the past, but now it has also been incorporated into the law by the initiators. That's very important. Thank you very much for that. The amendments to the proposal now have the slight disadvantage that, for example, the opinion of the Council of State has become less useful. For example, it was quite critical about shortening the deadline. In what way do the initiators intend to meet this? What advice does the bill support in its current form? The SP has also sparked the debate on the twelve-year deadline. We've talked about this before in this Chamber. I am also aware of the discontent about this. If you look at the current article 157 of Book 1 of the Civil Code, it says that in the event of a divorce the judge can grant a maintenance allowance to the spouse who cannot reasonably obtain sufficient income: alimony. In doing so, the court may grant a period not exceeding 12 years. If no deadline has been set, the obligation will end after 12 years. That is therefore a clear deadline, but the question is what the current practice is. How is that article applied in practice? My impression is that this maximum time limit has become a kind of standard time limit. The question that has been on my mind for a long time is: has that actually been the intention of the legislator at the time? Twelve years is, in many cases, unreasonably long. Such a period does not provide an incentive to stand on its own feet after marriage and to return to its own income. The law must also make customization possible, but the law does not do enough now, is my impression. So I am still talking about the law in its present form; I will come to the proposal in a moment. I think it would be preferable for partners to come to agreements themselves, for example in a partner alimony plan. Only if the ex-partners disagree will the judge have to make a decision. But in such a plan you could, for example, include what efforts those who receive alimony are going to make to get their own income and by when. What kind of training is someone gonna do? How long will that take? What's anyone gonna make? It could also be agreed that the amount of alimony will fall slowly, so that after a few years it will be zero. For example, account can be taken of the work history, career opportunities, the age of children and so on. The progress could therefore be checked periodically. What do the initiators think of this? Would this not lead to fairer outcomes, to which both partners have committed themselves together? That would be my idea; perhaps in addition to this. I would like to receive a response to that. But that is not the case now, because today we are discussing the proposal of VVD, D66 and PvdA to limit the time limit to five years, with exceptions for families with young children and people approaching the AOW age, on the grounds that shortening the term for partner alimony would be a broad-living social desire. There is a harsh clause for distressing cases, but then the termination of maintenance must be of such a profound nature that this cannot be required by reason of reasonableness and fairness. I think that's a wonderful legal open standard, but what does this mean? The applicants refer to this quite often. They respond on request: this will help to prevent poignant cases and to prevent recourse to assistance. Further on, however, it says that the hardness clause will and must be applied restrictively. I find that somewhat contradictory, at least I do not quite understand that. Can we get more information on this? The question that concerns me in this respect is whether this bill is based on the social reality that PvdA, VVD and D66, and perhaps myself, would wish for in the future. But we don't live in an ideal world if you'd already find that in which men and women share care tasks more honestly and so on. We're not in that social reality. Maybe we want it to go that way, but I don't think that's where we are right now. The reality now is that four out of ten women are not economically independent. Men work more often and often earn more and women worry more. The Emancipation Monitor shows that, after divorce, women on average fall 25% in purchasing power and men 0.2%, even taking into account paid partner alimony. So already the negative financial consequences for women are much greater than for men. Are they not further strengthened by this proposal? Is it realistic to assume that a person who has not worked for 20 years, because both partners had agreed to do so together, will find a place quickly and simply in the labour market? If I have understood correctly, the AOW pension scheme means that divorced people under 57 years of age must also enter the labour market. For example, a 50-year-old woman who has spent most of her time in a long marriage receiving child support for up to five years. After that, it has to provide its own income. That's when we know that a lot of fifties apply all dumb, but they don't get anywhere. How does the proposal take this into account? They've been out for years and training may be outdated. A lawyer wrote to me about this: I expect this group to get into quite a lot of trouble and that there is also an increase in the appeal to assistance from that group. Are the initiators willing to think about a soothing for this group? Does the Minister, from his role as advisor, share these concerns about this? Can he elaborate on this from that role? For example, for a soothing, you could think about the right of transition. The question is whether it is reasonable to change the rules for this group. There is no longer any way to catch up on the labour market. Decisions on the division of labour and care tasks were taken together years ago. You can't just change it with retroactive effect. Has it been considered that this is an open question; I do not know whether the solution is to apply these new rules only to new marriages or, for example, not to apply to marriages that have been going on for ten years or longer at the time of entry into force? If I see correctly, reaching the AOW age of the alimony payer also brings an end to the maintenance obligation. But what if that paying party is much older than the recipient? Suppose he's 63 years old at the time of the divorce and the wife is 56 years old. Will the alimony end as soon as the man goes with AOW? Does that give you a reasonable outcome? Should the 56-year-old woman still be on the labour market? One of the answers in the written round was that the economy is now attracting and the labour market is now favourable. But this bill is if it's good for the much longer term, isn't it? There are times of high and low economics. It is perhaps easy to say that everyone has to get to work in five years, but how are we going to do that if, in the future, things are suddenly going to get worse and it is going to be more difficult to get a job? Has there been any thought, for example, about the phenomenon of robotisation, which could lead to job losses in the future? Doesn't that make it even harder to get a job, especially if you have a hole in your resume for a few years? In other words, is this bill future-proof? If someone hasn't found a job after five years, it could be that person getting into welfare. Are those effects known and calculated? In the view of the proposers, how large will the increase in the call for assistance resulting from this proposal, which reduces the time limit for partner alimony? The Council of State has also pointed this out. So an important question for the SP is what the consequences of this bill are. There are people in practice who think it is an unwise proposal because it would worsen the financial situation of women, especially the group that has mainly been responsible for caring. These are often women, for example, 50 years of age and older. There are also many supporters, arguing that it is wise to think from the moment of divorce and to make efforts to return to self-income. Some people are starting too late because they think they have 12 years to do so. That's how I see it. However, that reasoning would also be in favour of reconsidering the transitional law and the arrangements for its entry into force. I can really follow the main thrust of the proposal, despite my critical questions. I hope that has been sufficiently demonstrated by my input. However, I would like to have more justification about the financial consequences for people who are going to receive shorter partner alimony in future, given the social reality, especially for people aged 50 and over who have not worked or have hardly worked for some time. I think it is a little too easy to say that these are poignant examples, which will have to rely on the hardness clause. Could these financial consequences not be better substantiated in some way or perhaps even passed on? Or is it possible to make a better arrangement for people aged 50 and over? That is a question I would like to make very specific. I do not think that the initiators are going to answer next week, but I hope that the initiators and their support will also use the summer recess to think very carefully about it. Then I have a number of other questions, which of course have to do with this proposal. Have the initiators considered making arrangements for unmarried cohabitants with children? For the least-earning ex-partner, a miserable situation can arise. Is it still of this time to make such a big difference between married and unmarried? Another suggestion I have come across is that instead of the five-year fixed deadline proposed by the proposers, we should opt for a standard set-aside scheme for an ever lower amount. This may lead to greater economic independence in the long term. I am thinking, for example, of a three-year phasing-out period, with child support falling by an equal amount per year in recent years, so that it is nil after three years. Isn't that better than after five years of rigorousness from everything to nothing? That may not necessarily make it more complicated, but perhaps better. Will the proposers think about that? A few legal observations, starting with paragraph 3 of Article 157. Only when the youngest child is 12 years old will the alimony end. But what if the children do not have their main residence with the child supporter, but with the child supporter? It happens sometimes. Then it would be very strange if you had to pay alimony until the child is 12 years old, while the children are staying with you and so you are the one who takes care of the child. Should we not add, for example, the words 'to the extent that these children have their main place of residence with the child-supporting parent'? That's also a serious suggestion. Hopefully, the initiators would like to consider whether this could improve the proposal. Paragraph 5 of Article 157 now states that, in the event of the circumstances referred to in paragraphs 1 to 4, the longest period shall apply. But that is not always clear. For if that longest period always applies, I think that paragraph 4 has a single sentence. There can be no situation in which that time limit is reduced due to the attainment of the AOW age by the alimony-payer. Would it not be better to change that Article member to, for example, "in the event of a combination of circumstances referred to in paragraphs 1 to 3 or in the event of a combination of circumstances referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4 the longest period shall apply"? If it is the intention of the claimants not to put an end to the maintenance of the old alimony claimant's AOW age, one might think of: in the event of a combination of circumstances referred to in paragraphs 1 to 3, or in the event of a combination of circumstances referred to in paragraphs 2 to 4, the longest period shall apply. Mr. Chairman. Hopefully not everyone has fallen asleep from these legal technical suggestions, but we are here making laws. So I think it is important, instead of immediately tabling amendments, to report these suggestions that have also been put to me from practice by legislative lawyers and lawyers. I think that is important, because in the end we have to make good laws here. Good luck with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you very much for your contribution. There is another question for you from Mr Raemakers of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u9	In his speech, Mr Van Nispen made it quite clear what the consequences might be for those who receive the alimony and what might change. Has Mr Van Nispen also thought about the consequences and the financial consequences for the people who have to pay alimony? For the people who have to pay alimony, often for years, this can be financially difficult because they have so many financial obligations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thanks for the question. Maybe I did not emphasise it enough, but I started by explaining that in the past the SP too has very often drawn attention to the overly long term of twelve years. It is a thorn in the eyes of a lot of people and it is indeed not always perceived as reasonable. The current law says that the time limit is up to 12 years, but in practice, at least, I see that it is still becoming a kind of standard term. We do not think that is a good situation; we do object to it. So in that respect, I understand this proposal very well. In the rest of my speech, however, I did stress the impact on the maintenance creditor, because we also see that in today's practice it is often women who lose purchasing power after divorce. I also mentioned those figures. So that has gotten a little more emphasis in my speech. But that the current twelve-year period cannot fully count on our support either, so that I would like to think constructively about this, I think I have been able to correct this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u11	I see that Mr Raemakers is satisfied with the clarification. Thank you for your contribution. I call Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u12	Madam President. On behalf of my group, I too would like to begin by congratulating the authors of the groups of the VVD, the Labour Party and D66, also on their predecessors and on the teams who are helping them with the great work that is coming from behind such an initiative legislative proposal. Having said that, today is a very important subject. When two people commit to marriage, they promise each other allegiance and promise to take care of each other. When they come to the decision to break up, in principle this also brings with it a responsibility. At least that's how we've arranged it in our country. And the Christian Union also believes that this is important. Today the question arises as to how far that responsibility will go for each other if marriage has come to an end. When one in three marriages in the Netherlands ends in divorce, you can really speak of a very big social issue that affects many partners, families and children. I too know the poignant stories. Although I understand that this is a reason for the authors to review the partner alimony, at least as we have now arranged, I still have a number of critical questions from my group. The legislative proposal has already been substantially amended in relation to the first version. The previous speakers also called for attention to be paid to this. For assessment, it is now time to reduce the maximum duration of partner alimony from 12 years to five years, with two exceptions. In the case of a long-term marriage where the creditor is not more than 10 years younger than the applicable AOW age, maintenance may last for up to 10 years until the AOW age is reached. The second exception concerns the maximum duration of partner alimony for a wife with the care of young children. It stays at 12 years. The basis for the current maintenance right is based on case law and is also based on Article 1.81 of the Civil Code, which states that spouses owe each other loyalty, assistance and assistance. They are obliged to provide each other with what is necessary. In recent literature, two principles are mentioned: the basis of the continuous solidarity of marriage and the basis of the marriage-related reduction in earning capacity. Although the applicants have not changed the basis, they are very much focused on reducing that earning capacity. I ask the authors how they look at that other basis, that of the constant solidarity between the partners within a marriage. Do the proposers agree with me that people are also free to make their own choices in combining work with care for children or care for relatives, and that the choices that people make during marriage also entail a responsibility for each other when marriage breaks down? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the issue of tension with social reality. As Mr Van Nispen said, we do not live in an ideal world. The Council of State rightly notes that the proposers in the proposal are based on a situation concerning the position of women in the labour market and on the distribution of care tasks within marriage, which is far from social reality. The proposers argue that it is a trend that care tasks are becoming more and more evenly distributed among men and women. At least that's how they see the world changing. But I'd like to ask them to back that up. When I look at the Emancipation Note which the Minister recently sent to the Chamber, I see a different picture coming up. Almost three quarters of all working women in the Netherlands have part-time jobs against one fifth of working men and currently 59% of women are economically self-employed compared with 78% of men. And 70% of the minimum wage is just enough to live as a single person, but it doesn't leave much room for manoeuvre. If you care for children, which is true for many women, that is not enough. If you earn 100% of the minimum wage, you can be considered financially independent, but for women that percentage is about 48% and for men it is 73%. So it's not an ideal world. I would ask the proposers to respond to this. The Council of State states that the disadvantage of women in the labour market at the end of marriage through divorce is significant and that even after marriage, the distribution of care responsibilities is not the same in most cases. Yeah, it changes, but not soon. So where do the proposers then base their assumption that shortly after the end of marriage the alimony beneficiaries are in practice that most women can fully provide for their own livelihoods? I would also very much like to ask the Minister for his reply on this point. Does he share the concerns the Council of State has about this? Then one final point. We know that the average age of women is 44 years if they divorce and that of men 47 years and that the average duration of marriage is 15 years. I wonder whether the proposers have properly involved the interests and position on the labour market of this particular group of women of, say, around 50, who have been long married partners in their proposal. These women are not currently covered by the derogation, but it is doubtful whether they will be able to provide for their own maintenance within five years. They can get in serious trouble. So I ask the proposers how the proposal takes them into account and how they would like to meet them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you for the contribution. I call Mr Koopmans on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate the authors and their advisers. Congratulations! Mr. Chairman. Love knows no laws and no budget. For the most beautiful thing in life, politics is not necessary at all. She often gets in the way of that. Unfortunately, many of us can talk about that. But when love is gone and people get divorced, it is good that there is a law that prevents independent life from suddenly appearing priceless. That's why we have a law on partner alimony. For the record, this is not about child support. But the law on partner alimony has to be up to date. At the moment, that law is based on a maximum of 12 years of partner alimony. And that's a long time for people who don't want to be connected anymore. It doesn't fit anymore. It no longer fits the ideal of freedom. Sure, we're social, too, and people are supposed to take care of each other. But how long can one's freedom be limited by an obligation to the other, someone with whom he or she no longer wants to be with? For some, the long maintenance period is a very heavy burden on the future. It doesn't suit the ideals of equality and emancipation either. At a time when equality of all is recognised, long-term partner alimony is contrary to equality. Both former partners should have the opportunity to develop and build a new and attractive life. 12 years of alimony limits the view on own initiative for both the payer and the recipient. The alimony is too often perceived as a barrier to finding a job or to further develop. Too often alimony is perceived as an obstacle to moving forward with a new, beautiful and independent life. Finally, the long maintenance period is no longer in line with today's reality. In the Netherlands today, anyone can work if he or she wants to. The old-fashioned earner model is also really old-fashioned. So it's not a real role model. For someone who can't really work, there is all kinds of support to get to work eventually. If that is not a solution either, there is a good system of support from the government and society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mrs Buitenweg has a question for you on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u16	Veronica liberalism suddenly got a little too much for me. So I thought I'd ask you a question. The idea of freedom, happiness, everyone's own choices is absolutely right. Does the VVD also have the idea that because of the problem of sometimes somewhat difficult reconciliation of work and care, the "free choices" are not quite the same for men and women?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u17	I would even like to go wider, if Mrs Buitenweg would allow me. It's not about men and women, it's about people in general. People's personal circumstances can vary enormously. What we are talking about is a situation where people have been together for a long time and one partner may have parked his career in favour of family life. Well, that'll have to be taken care of. It doesn't really matter whether it's a man or a woman, regardless of how that works statistically in practice. We have to take that well and this law is a contribution to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u18	I fully agree that both men and women should be able to take care of their children and that these are free choices. What I would like to hear from the VVD is some recognition that stereotypes and role patterns still play a role in the choices and that this bill, if you just look at it on average, will not work out equally for the group of women and the group of men. Just that recognition would show some realism, although you can still be in favour of it, because you want to influence a certain development for the future. I can go along with that, I just said that. But does the VVD recognize that for the time being it's really going to unpack differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u19	I do not quite understand Mrs Buitenweg's question, because we all recognise reality, I think. At the moment, there are many more women receiving alimony than men. So if you change the alimony rules, it will have more effect in the recipient category on women and in the payer category on men. What we want to go to is a world in which everyone is as emancipated as possible, equalized, and where people are also as free as possible to fill in their lives. The data about who gets and pays more, they're what they are. I do not see that there is a difference between Mrs Buitenweg and myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u20	Mrs Buitenweg, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u21	The VVD did just say: everyone is free to make their own choice, and that triggered me, because it suggested that there are no restrictions on that choice. I would like to ask the VVD if it could support a request on my part to map out really well, exhaustively, which at the moment are the bottlenecks for combining work and care. Then we can work together on an agenda to ensure that it is indeed a free choice. Is that a direction the VVD might support?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u22	In my view, Mrs Buitenweg is actually asking this question to the authors of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u23	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u24	That we need to know very well what we are talking about, and I am very much in favour of that. That's why I'm with the VVD. It seems to me that we should have all the data on the table if we're going to change the law. But here we have a combination of principles. What maintenance obligations are there? What balance, what solidarity should there be? And we have facts: who, which groups have the most to do with this? What people are affected by this? I think I share the ideal of emancipation and equality with Mrs Buitenweg. I would also like to add the ideal of freedom. I think Mrs Buitenweg agrees with me on this. That we only have to change things based on knowledge of the situation, I fully share that position with Mrs Buitenweg. But if she is asking me or my group to support the creation of a new scientific research, when I think the authors have done a lot of work on it, then I say: that is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u25	In conclusion, we are going to deal with this bill, but it is about keeping an eye on the fact that things are different because there are obstacles in reality. Then my appeal to the VVD Group is to come back to this later in order to draw up a separate agenda, in which we have a very specific picture of what really is the problem of reconciling work and care. Then, together, we can come up with an agenda to bring about the society that this legislative proposal is actually based on, in practice as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u26	I understand Mrs Buitenweg when she says that she supports the ideals that are being developed here by the proposers; the VVD also shares and wholeheartedly supports them. I see that as an encouragement to continue with my speech, in which I just said that the cost-earning model is old-fashioned and unreal and that we must move on. On that basis, it is also commendable that the initiators have taken the initiative to adapt the current law in the interests of freedom, emancipation and reality. I've mentioned that for a while. They do so by limiting the duration of the alimony to half the time the marriage lasted, with a maximum of five years of alimony. That's much more just for a lot of people. Of course, the VVD strongly supports this. The initiators retain two main exceptions to avoid poignant cases. The first is that in the case of a marriage with young children, child support may last until the youngest child reaches the age of 12. This exception does not mean that parents of younger children cannot also earn a living. This exception is precisely to support them, where necessary. The second exception is that in the case of a long-term marriage, where at the time of divorce the alimony partner gives up less than 10 years from the AOW, the maintenance obligation may last until the beginning of the AOW-age. This exception, too, I would like to stress that, even towards Mrs Buitenweg, 'does not mean that we write off older people for the labour market, not at all. We welcome it when older people find work. The longer-term alimony is reasonable and fair, when people may not have worked in marriage for a long time and thus have seen their earning capacity decrease relatively. Mrs Van der Graaf pointed that out, I believe. In addition, the legislative proposal includes a hardness clause which allows the judge to make a further exception if it is truly unjust. In short, this bill is fair, liberating and realistic. The VVD still has questions. A question to both the proposers and the minister is how they see this general hardness clause. On the one hand, is it sufficient for the really poignant cases? On the other hand, not so open that the precise system that is being built here is undermined by too easy an exception? My other question concerns the basis for partner alimony. Both in the current law and in the bill is the marital destiny, which would legally continue working after marriage. When people break that lot connection, it is more appropriate to change the legal basis for the calculation of alimony into a compensation for the loss of earning capacity. For example, child support would be a compensation for the backwardness of the labour market, which was created by the fact that one of the partners did not spend any or less time on the career. That is more realistic and it is more just. It may be more complicated, but it's more honest. It is not fair, then, to keep people from a free future with the argument that it would be too complicated for judges. My question to the Minister is whether he can promise that when this law is evaluated, it will also be considered whether the legal basis that the law still has will have its validity or whether it is appropriate to change it to compensation for labour shortages. Mr. Chairman. In love people find happiness, freedom, equality, emancipation and a more beautiful reality. But when that love is no longer there and a marriage comes to an end, laws and practical objections must not stand in the way of another search for those same ideals in a new form. This bill helps, without compromising the compassion and concern for those who are more difficult to achieve that happiness. The VVD strongly supports that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u27	Thank you very much for your contribution. Mr Van Nispen has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u28	Not surprisingly, the VVD supports this bill. I recognize a lot in Mr Koopmans' speech, but there are a lot of fine words: freedom, emancipation, reality, justice. The social reality is that four out of ten women in marriage are now not economically independent and that, after a divorce, women face a 25% loss of purchasing power and men lose almost nil, even if you take account of partner alimony. How does Mr Koopmans think this bill will affect that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u29	The crucial point of this bill is, of course, that the maximum maintenance duration goes back from twelve to five years. That means that people are less in a relationship of dependence. This duration is in line with the reality of modern society in which everyone is supposed to contribute, in principle by working or by being socially involved. This dependency relationship, which Mr Van Nispen rightly describes here, aims to place this bill in the modern world in which everyone has their own role. I think this is an important and very emancipatory contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u30	In my opinion, this social contribution can also be made if both partners share care and work tasks in good consultation, so if one of the two partners chooses to take care of it and the other partner chooses to work. Of course you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u31	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u32	Perhaps Mr Van Nispen wanted to finish his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u33	The fact that Mr Koopmans already recognizes this is a good thing. I'll follow up on my question. A more explicit question might perhaps be: is it realistic to assume that, for example, a woman aged 50 or over who has not worked for 20, 25 years but has performed important care tasks in good consultation with the man she was married to, after a divorce, still finds a place on the labour market within a period of five years, given the backwardness of that labour market and possibly outdated training? In what way does the VVD have an eye for that? Does the VVD support the call I have heard before today to look very clearly at how this is going to work out for this group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u34	Mr Van Nispen's first point is the reality that partners have a free choice. That of course supports the VVD wholeheartedly. It is the free choice of people to have both a full-time job or both a part-time job or one part-time job and the other no job at all. We wholeheartedly support them, and we do not want to change them in any way. I don't think this bill does either. This is his first point. On his second question about the earning capacity of someone who may not have worked for a long time and who, at an older age, suddenly runs out of a partner who shares the income, I note that in my view this bill contributes to the fact that it is clear that everyone has their own responsibility. I fully agree with Mr van Nispen that distressing cases must be avoided. That's what five years is for. That is a reasonable period which I believe Mr Van Nispen can also support, if I have understood him correctly. In addition, there is a hardness clause that says: if it is a poignant case and this leads to unfair, unreasonable and unfair situations, we should not do so. And that is judged, where necessary, not in a negotiation between two parties, but by a judge. This can be established on the basis of an understanding of law, reasonableness and fairness. This seems to me to be a very important safety clause in order to prevent cases such as those that concern both Mr Van Nispen and myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u35	I am not asking Mr Koopmans to lose his party or the initiators. That's not what I'm asking. The question that really concerns me is whether there is a larger group, perhaps a larger group than Mr Koopmans thinks, of people who have not been active in the labour market for a longer period but who have to be within a period of five years and who have to provide their own livelihoods, while we know that a lot of 50-plus people are currently doing a lame job interview without getting a job. That is also the social reality. The only question I would like to ask Mr Koopmans is whether there is sufficient attention for that group. Mr Koopmans then says: there is a hardness clause. But he just said himself it's not meant for very large groups of people. So please ask the proposers if they will take a very close look at this and ask the Minister to look into the possibilities of identifying the consequences for this group in the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u36	I think Mr Van Nispen has already asked that question himself. I'm waiting, like him, for that question to be answered. I'm looking forward to that. I assume that when I hear those answers, Mr Van Nispen will hear them too. On the basis of those answers, I will be able to determine my further position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u37	Thank you very much for your contribution. I call Mr Kerstens, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u38	Chairman! First of all, I would like to apologize for my voice. That's not because I shouted the Netherlands to the next round of the World Cup yesterday.It was just such a party, but I've caught a cold. I would like to join the previous speakers in congratulating the authors of the proposal. It is always a pleasure to be in trade-K, although perhaps this morning elsewhere in The Hague there is a Secretary of State for Finance and a premiere who think otherwise. Moreover, I also saw Mr Recourt, one of the original proposers, in the honor, but he has now disappeared. My compliments and congratulations go out to him, of course. The Labour Party is one of the initiators of the bill on adjusting the duration of the so-called partner alimony, which we are discussing today. It will therefore be no surprise that the PvdA is behind this. There has been a great deal of discussion, and Mr Van Nispen has already said something about the 12-year time limit that has become standard in practice. The proposal also fits in with the increasing employment rate of women, which is very positive for various reasons. However, I also have a few questions for the authors. If it is up to the proposers, there will be two exceptions to the proposal to reduce the duration of partner alimony to half the number of years that people have been married, with a maximum of 5 years. If there has been a marriage from which children are born who are less than 12 years of age at the time of divorce, the duration of child support is up to 12 years, until the child reaches the age of 12. The duration of the alimony is up to ten years if a marriage has lasted fifteen years or more and the alimony holder is less than eleven years in front of his or her AOW. The background to that exception is clear. If there are younger children, or if someone is over 56, it is less easy to find a job quickly to provide their own care. A longer maintenance period is then justified; I agree with that. But also for other reasons, it may not be so easy to provide for one's own livelihood. Maybe you've either been disabled or you've dropped out of school without qualifications. Or maybe your daughter, who is 13, so older than 12, still needs a lot of care from you. The bill provides for a hardness clause. Are these the cases for which the hardness clause is intended? How does that work? Another comment on the hardness clause. Are the applicants not afraid of a wave of casuism and therefore of a wave of legal inequality, where one judge applies the hardness clause and the other court does not, which means that the derogation is seven years in one case and in the other perhaps twelve years in the other? What do the proposers think if such differences occur in practice? Do they want to prevent it, or do they not think it is necessary? I would also like to hear from the Minister, in his role as advisor to the proposers, how he looks at that. Mr Van Nispen pointed out that the payment would stop if the maintenance worker reached the AOW age. What if the partner, for example, is 60 at the time and doesn't find her or her way into the labour market and employers aren't in line? Could the hardness clause perhaps play a role in advance? Or do the proposers perhaps see other possibilities to deliver customization in this example? Finally. If you are less than 11 years in front of your AOW age, an exception applies to the five-year period. Why was the border drawn there? Why is the border drawn at 55, 56 or 57 years? Is sufficient account taken of the fact that these older women are often women who are less easily able to enter the labour market than younger women or men can? These are women who have taken care of children their whole lives and who have diplomas that may be obsolete. They have a distance from the labour market. Why did you draw that line here? And what do you do with apert unreasonable cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u39	Thank you very much. Despite the cold, we have been able to understand every word clearly. Feel better! I call Mrs Van Toorenburg from the CDA group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, compliments to the initiators and their staff. Some of them we often see here as support. Nice; I have a lot of admiration for it. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. When I deal with a bill, I always have a steady M.O. It was taught to me by Wim van de Camp; some probably remember him. He had the right to speak because he has made a difference for 23 years here in the Chamber, especially in the field of justice and security. He was a nestor with authority and humor, and they have a lot of fun in the European Parliament. What does this M.O. look like? I always take the explanatory statement first. I read it very well, just as long as I understand everything in it. I want to get a full picture of the bill. Then I read the opinion of the Council of State and the reaction to it. Then I'm going to puzzle, based on the points of criticism, and see how this has been met. Then I will do the opinions, reports and the amendments. It's really a regular M.O. Well, Mr. Chairman, this time I was completely screwed with this method. Oh, my God, I'm so broken up. I think that Mr Van de Camp, with all his humour, will not recover when he hears how I spent 5.5 hours working on the explanatory statement. Because once I understood everything, I understood the basis, the calculations, the indexations, the brutality, the stales and the deadlines. And then I found out that the bill wasn't just a little modified, as I understood, but that it was completely, and then completely, undressed. The bill is now limited to the duration of the partner alimony. It should now be half the duration of marriage with a maximum of five years, with two exceptions: long-term marriages and marriages with young children. The maintenance obligation ends when the former creditor has reached the AOW age, with a hardness clause and a transitional right. This, with a few minor changes and an evaluation clause, is ultimately left over from what was laid down by the Council of State. Everything else is out. It's something, Mr. Chairman, it's really something. Let me also be clear at the outset: what was first thought by my group really went too far. With the Council of State, we also felt that it did not do justice to the practice in terms of assumptions. It does not fit in with how we, as CDA, look at the marriage commitment and it would not have provided a solution to the current problems in the old form either. On the contrary. Amazing situations could not be excluded and whether everything had become easier was doubtful. What is now in store is limited and clear. And if we listen carefully, there is really something to say for limiting the time limit for partner alimony. Twelve years is very long to be financially linked if a marriage or registered partnership has come to an end. However, it will always be a lot connection, especially when there are children involved. I have to say that the approach originally chosen by the initiators was really not ours. It was too much of its own responsibility, its own development and its distance from the idea of solidarity. It was a bit everyone for themselves. We look at people in relation to another, especially when that relationship has been as close as a marriage. But the reality is that not every marriage or registered partnership lasts a lifetime. If that union is to come to an end, is it indeed not wise to return at any time, perhaps earlier than now, to one's own strength, to provide for one's own livelihood? As far as we are concerned, that is not because it would be a good thing for this ex-partner to get rid of it for once, but because we believe that participation in employment is important for everyone, especially for that person himself. It is a social network, it is a social network, it is a contribution, it is an example for children, it is an added value in itself. That is why the CDA is not, by definition, opposed to the present proposal. However, there are two aspects that we need to discuss seriously and are actually a bit of a chunk in the throat. One aspect is the age limit of 12 years. No one's talked about it yet. I'm very curious how the Chamber looks at that further. What we are always given and I recognize as a mother is that 12 years is about the worst age to take a step back. The moment a kid goes to high school, to junior high, you actually have to go closer to rogues. Very often, partners get to work a little more once they get out of primary school, but I understand from research that that's exactly when parents shouldn't. I've read that a number of times. I can't remember where. That's not just because it takes a very long time for parents to understand Magister and all other things, Chromebook and I know what comes with it. This is a frustrated mother speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u41	We'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u42	It is really the moment when a minor takes a step in autonomy where you have to stay very close with a completely different responsibility. I sincerely ask the initiators whether this 12 years is a wise decision. Shouldn't we say up to 12 years, so 13? Or do you have to say up to seventh grade? I know it's always arbitrary, but so is 12. We as CDA think that 12 years might be the happiest age to choose. I'd like a reflection of the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u43	I understand this point from a colleague of the CDA very well. With a kid going to high school next year and seeing a previous one, I know you need to be there at that junior high. The question is whether that is something to be dealt with through this bill. Isn't it also a very big problem that it is difficult to make sure that you are present earlier in the day, from about four hours? It is difficult to combine work and care properly. You can see in some countries, for example Denmark and Sweden, that there are many initiatives to ensure that the working day is sometimes a little shorter. You don't have to be home with a kid in high school by 11:00. A child only arrives a little later, then has to do homework and then needs attention. Should there not be more flexibility in working days so that they can be reduced? Isn't that especially a point we need to discuss with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u44	Yes, it is quite right what Mrs Buitenweg says. And at all, everything she said in her contribution on this point is right, because much more is needed in flexibilisation. But I will return to the proposal a little bit. I am convinced that Mrs Buitenweg recognizes like no other that it is much easier to arrange when the children are in primary school. You'll have extracurricular care and all sorts of things. Actually, you don't have all that when the kids are at that high school age, unless you have a lot of money and you take your kid to homework counseling. That's what people in my neighborhood do when they see that they have their child differently as a kind of key child at home and they're afraid it's not going well. So yes, we need to see how you could improve that flexibility in that labour market so that there is more room, especially in those periods. I have always been opposed to the fact that we always limit parental leave to those eight years. I've been murmuring endlessly at the door of the House of Representatives to get movement there, because at another age there are so many things important to parents as well. So you have to broaden that flexibility and leave arrangements much more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u45	I think this is very hopeful, because we are developing an agenda for all kinds of things that need to be dealt with. That is indeed something I would very much like to develop in addition to this bill, so I see that very clearly. One small point about, for example, matters such as after-school care. You can see that children have been wanting to get rid of this for about 7, 8 years, because it is not always offered in a good way. But I think that's another discussion. I think it's just gonna be tough all the time until the kids actually just go to high school and have just had the first year's ass. I suggest that we go together at another time and see what it takes to really take steps in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u46	Yeah, that's true. But I may be a bit of a spoiled mother, or I may have had very spoiled children. 'Cause I couldn't stand the fun of after-school care, you know. That was so sublime! So I dare say they loved what was going on there. So when I thought I'd think of something else, it got me into a lot of trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u47	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u48	So that's the first point about the CDA and really a very serious appeal: look at that age, because we don't believe it's wise to do it up to 12 years when that's the time when you would like to intensify that care for children so much more. Then the point of age. I can almost seamlessly agree with what Mr Van Nispen has said. We are also very concerned about the solution chosen for the later age. The Council of State was also critical of this. For what happens when someone has been married for a very long time and moves over 50 years, traditionally taking on that greatest concern and not coming to work? Isn't it very poignant when that person is exchanged for a younger model; I say it very flat, but that's just often the reality we're talking about here in the Chamber. That's the painful part. It's as painful as that happens, and then you're standing there. And it is the practice, whether we like it or not, that in the generation of people who are now that age, those care tasks were often so divided. So should we not look at extending the transitional right? Maybe we should look for a way to say: in a marriage of 25 years it is 12 years? How can we come up with a solution to that? That is also our question to the cabinet and the minister who is here today as an advisor. So apart from the fact that we're worried about the little ones, we're also very worried about the older ones. We read what would happen, but I think that is wishful thinking rather than a sense of reality. As far as our group is concerned, it is going to be a poignant situation and it will also, once again, put pressure on assistance. I'd like a more detailed analysis. On the contrary, I would like to say that I would also like to hear it from the cabinet, because we have now received a proposal which is very different from what was submitted to the Council of State. So we really don't have a solid opinion on just this point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u49	There is a question for you from Mr Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u50	I would like to ask Mrs Van Toorenburg to clarify a little. On the one hand, if I have understood her correctly, she has great sympathy for the limitation of the duration of twelve to five years, but then she says: yes, but there is also that exception for people with young children, it may not be possible to do so any longer, because 12 is such a bad age, maybe it should be 13, 14 or so. Then there is the exception for people who are closer to retirement. Couldn't do that a little longer, she asked. I can imagine that if she continues to explicate, she will have even more cases for which she would like to have a wider arrangement. Yes, I will ask Mrs Van Toorenburg where the CDA will be. Do you really want to shorten it, or do you want to expand it again for all different situations and do you not give conflicting signals? I think it can be very useful for the proposers if we know where the CDA actually stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u51	I can say a few brief things about that. We're not standing next to the VVD when you look at the way they look at marriages and what's ahead here. Because when I heard Mr Koopmans, I really thought: we are looking at that quite differently. I have two criticisms. One is the age of 12. Shouldn't that be another year, so it's going to be 13? In addition: not very many weddings beach in the first year, so I think we are much closer to each other than is now suggested. And if there has been a different division of care responsibilities, I would like to see an extension in the social reality of today in order to avoid distress. There are countless ways to do that. That can be done, I thought, a very sensible suggestion from the SP..... by taking a longer transitional right. You can do it by saying: I look at the duration of a marriage and the division of labour and make it a special hardness clause. It can be done in all kinds of ways. So we are not indifferent to the proposal, but we are critical of those two groups. That criticism doesn't necessarily mean I can say I'm in favour now. Probably, if nothing changes, I'm against it. I think I can say that quite clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u52	Sounds like a clear position to me. I'd like you to finish your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u53	I'll come to a conclusion. Let us not forget that the proposal before us does not change the whole world. Because fortunately it only comes to a partner alimony in one in six divorces, because fortunately many marriages with young children do not end. We do think that it is very often the case with small children, but figures show that this is not the case. Nor is it, I must say, that any alimony is sulkingly accepted. A lot of people take responsibility for each other. There is also increasing co-parenting. Very important, I think it's good for children to feel that they are so welcome everywhere and that parents come together well. But the fact that you're going to look at the alimony period is wise. Let us see how far we can reduce it, but not with regard to the two situations I think we have discussed exhaustively today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u54	Thank you very much for your contribution. There is still a question from Mr Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u55	Another one. Because I was very grateful that Mrs Van Toorenburg started her contribution with her wise life lessons. She explained how, on the basis of an opinion from Mr Van de Camp, she had established a method which she applied consistently and continuously. But in that context, she criticized the proposers for changing their bill over time. I would ask Mrs Van Toorenburg: is it not very important to listen to people's advice, as Mrs Van Toorenburg also listened to Mr Van de Camp's opinion and then, if necessary, to make adjustments on the basis of the opinion? Just when you're constantly clinging to the same method, the spoke can run. It is therefore very good and to praise the proposers for listening to advice and adapting their legislative proposals accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u56	I just put myself more like a loser, with just one m.O. I really enjoyed sharing it with you guys and taking you guys into how I spent my Sunday. So I guess I figured out after five and a half hours, I'd just plow through everything, to make calculations, that it was really all turned upside down. So I thought, "Let me show you how I normally treat a law." Sometimes you have to start on the other side, though I don't think I can handle a law properly. In fact, you have to start by analysing the explanatory memorandum, because it always contains all the building blocks for the final proposal. That also makes me critical of these two points. But I thought, "Let me clarify how I've dealt with myself."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u57	Mr President, may I, through you, congratulate Mrs Van Toorenburg? In fact, it gives compliments to the proposers on the basis of its own experience, because they do listen to advice and show flexibility. Thank you very much to Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u58	I fully agree with that, and with a chapter on divorces! All right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u59	Thank you very much for your contribution. I call Mr Raemakers of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Like previous speakers, I would like to begin by thanking the initiators and their predecessors for submitting this proposal. The legal arrangement on partner alimony is very technical and complicated. It is to be commended for taking that up from the Chamber, and so is all the predecessors who were already involved in this. The law must maintain the balance between giving space for an infinite amount of personal circumstances, and being concrete enough so that everyone knows what he or she can expect. That balance is extra important, because anyone who thought it was reasonable to support each other in good and bad times during a marriage can suddenly think very differently about it. The matrimonial property right then regulates the capital position: what is of whom, even when it comes to bank balances and debts? These three parties recently brought another law to a successful conclusion. Partner alimony law is the other lot. A maintenance scheme can be imposed on demand and on capacity. In theory that sounds good, but in practice people do not always see it as just. At D66 we have been receiving many emails about partner alimony for a long time. On the one hand, we get that of angry payers who find the time limit imposed on them unfairly long. But secondly, we also get emails from angry recipients, because they find the amount too low or because payments come in too late. But third, we also get emails from people who want to know when our proposal will come into effect, because they see: if I get divorced, then I have a really big problem for years. Already in the note that led to this bill, my group set out three principles for a revision of the maintenance right: shorter, fairer and simpler. I shall therefore lay down this proposal along these three lines. First of all, shorter. The maximum time limit goes down for most people. From 12 years we go either to five years or to half the marriage period. So if you were married for three years, you could get alimony for a maximum of one and a half years. After six years, you can get up to three years, and that's how it gets up to five years in this proposal. But maximum deadlines - it has been said earlier today - are not saying everything about actual deadlines. How often does the judge impose a time limit for the maintenance obligation? And how exactly does he determine that reasonable period of time? To make it concrete, when does a judge choose to impose the maximum three years of maintenance after six years? And when does the judge think two years is gonna be okay? Can the Minister provide us with information on this as an advisor? Then there's the exception for those who have little children and take care of them. The maximum period of five years shall not apply to children under 12 years of age. He, but still too often one side, cannot fully provide for one's own income as soon as the care for the child is completely divided or lies with another. I think that the legislative proposal has an exception to this. I do have a question about how it works. We see that co-parenting, the equal distribution as a parent for the children, is becoming more and more the starting point. For the costs directly related to the child, there is of course already child alimony. My question is whether the assumption is correct, and I ask the initiators, Mr President, that in the future, in the case of real co-parenting and equal distribution of care tasks, education and care for children, there will not be such a quick reason for a judge to use the exception from five to twelve years. How do the initiators see that in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u61	The representative of D66 says that it is quite right that there is an exception in the situation that children are under 12 years of age. Why is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u62	That is right, because there may be a situation that we often see in practice that women are more concerned about children than men. Sometimes it's the other way around, but usually it's the woman. If both partners have agreed on this, the children are very young and it is then a divorce, then it is right that the alimony in these cases can be longer because the woman sometimes has the man, but not so often motivated by it, has started to work less. That seems to me to be a fair exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u63	Is it right, then, to ensure that this situation can continue that one partner takes more care of the children? Isn't the problem above all that it is very difficult to combine good work and care now? What are the consequences for the earning capacity of that partner, who may receive alimony for 12 or perhaps 14 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u64	Of course, we see a trend in society that co-parenting is becoming more and more the norm. That is also in my question to the initiators. We also see, for example, that paternity leave is extended from two to five days. We see extra investment in childcare. These are all measures, such as a number of things that are regularly discussed here in the Chamber, which in future will have to ensure that it is increasingly divided between men and women and that the financial independence of women is really going to increase. I think D66 and GroenLinks find each other in that too. But it is good that the initiators do not close their eyes to situations where we are not yet ready. I think that's very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u65	Finally, my question is what is the effect on women's economic independence and emancipation if you so explicitly mention this exception as a good exception and wish to include it in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u66	It is precisely the fact that, of course, we prefer women's financial independence to be increased more quickly, but we face the fact that we are dealing with a real situation in which marriages may take a long time and where, unfortunately, the financial independence of women has not yet taken the forms that I believe we all would like to see. Facing that and a bit of realism, which the initiators have also done, also seems to me to be in the interests of those children.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u67	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u68	I'm going to my second block, which is about being more honest. The new regulation also needs to be fairer. A term of alimony payments that better matches people's expectations is quickly a fairer term in itself. From twelve to five years, with a few exceptions, fits in with that. But there is even more to that concept, because there is a great deal of misunderstanding about ex-partners who are going to work even less quickly before a divorce or even quit their jobs. The other one's gonna take the fall. This does not seem to me to be the intention of the law, not of the current law, but also of the initiative proposal. Can both the Minister and the initiators confirm that? Then what is the handle that the judge can use to test with the new law? Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the third block, it's about simpler. In divorces, emotions come along. Explanation and clear rules are then extra important. A judge who motivates his ruling well and supports it well will soon be able to expect more understanding. Often the alimony assessment, as I understand it, immediately includes the calculations of the need and the carrying capacity. Is that right? In any case, it is a good thing that this is now laid down in the law, but it is later. What is the Minister's view to improve on the information position in advance? You can also look at the Court of Justice's website. It contains the alimony standards applied in the form of thick pdfs with tables, standards, point calculations and net income. It's gonna blow your brains out. Can't we all make that a little more interactive and understandable? That would help a lot of people to make it simpler right away. Finally, Mr President. We very much look forward to the answer. Hopefully he'll be here soon after the summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u69	Thank you very much for your contribution. I call Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks and compliments to the initiators for submitting an initiative proposal with the aim of limiting the legal duration of the obligation of ex-partners to a maximum of five years after the end of the marriage. Each year, 30,000 divorces take place, with partner alimony awarded in more than one sixth of the cases. Men and women are equal and their separation and settlement should therefore be based on parity between the two mentioned. Special circumstances which justify a nuance to that supposed parity may lead to the legal duration of the ex-partner's obligation to live. But the test of time has overtaken the legislation in force. Hence the proposed restriction. The starting point must be that both partners must be able to provide their income on their own. The 12-year period is long, and in too many cases too long. Unfortunately, it is no exception that an ex-partner does not register a new relationship, allowing that ex-partner to benefit from the alimony for longer than necessary. People with alimony obligations can also have major financial problems. The PVV believes that people who have to bite hard for years to finance the maintenance of their ex-partner should be catered for. After a divorce, someone should get alimony from the ex-partner at most five years. In 2012, the PVV group, my group, tabled an initiative proposal that shortens the period for alimony to five years for the ex-partner of 12 years. Precisely on the day the PVV submitted the bill, VVD, D66 and PvdA issued an initiative paper on this issue. The proposers must have thought: better taken from the PVV than they themselves thought badly. But let them have it. My group still wonders what the initiators think about the following. Ask me one. There are lawyers in the Netherlands who expect that an amendment of the law will give rise, if partner alimony has already been determined at an earlier date, to raise with the court the maximum alimony period of 12 years despite the inclusion in the proposal that the current legal provisions continue to apply to the old cases. This is expected to lead to many procedures. How do the initiators look at this? The second question. The original PVV bill stipulated that after the entry into force of the bill the maintenance obligation would also be automatically limited to a maximum of five years in existing cases. Why hasn't this element been taken over? In your explanatory statement, you argued that Article 1 of the First Protocol of the ECHR would stand in the way of a treaty that we should actually denounce. You explained this by pointing out that limitation of pre-existing alimony rights is only possible if that limitation, you say, is proportionate. Without further explanation, you then concluded in the explanatory statement that you chose not to limit existing alimony rights. I ask you, and by you, I mean the initiators, how you used the concept of 'proportional' in this context. According to your own explanation, limitation of existing alimony rights is possible provided that that limitation is proportionate. So why do you not consider any, even the slightest, limitation of existing alimony rights proportionate? How, for example, do the initiators look at the situation that a child support obligation, which could last 12 years, has been imposed on a person on the day before the entry into force of this law and is therefore imposed entirely different alimony obligations than someone who is subject to a maintenance obligation exactly one day after the entry into force of this law? According to the initiators, in such cases, is there not an unacceptable legal inequality and/or a breach of the principle of proportionality? I hope for a detailed explanation on this point. I would also specifically ask for a detailed explanation from the Minister for Legal Protection of the meaning of the term 'proportional' in relation to any limitation of maintenance rights that already exist at the time of the entry into force of this bill. In the view of the Minister, can this only lead to the conclusion that any restriction on existing alimony rights can only be disproportionate? Or could mitigation of existing alimony rights be proportional depending on the impact of such mitigation? My group welcomes the answer and will assess, on the basis of the answers, whether it can accept the initiative legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u71	There is a question for you from Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u72	I have a question about equality of law and legal certainty. Mr Markuszower actually says that equality is a problem because there is a different situation on the day before the entry into force than on the day after the entry into force. Of course, that's a disadvantage you have with every law. Does the PVV say that it considers this equality of law to be more important than or perhaps as important as the legal certainty of someone who thought they were entitled to certain things under the old law, who is still entitled to them the day before the entry into force and then suddenly no longer? How does the PVV view equality and legal certainty?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u73	I think that's a very good question. I use a lot of words, because I actually want to leave it in the middle myself. I'd like to wait and see the Minister's answers. That is why I asked for a detailed discussion on the concept of proportionality. How are we supposed to see that? I understand and also respect the right to legal certainty. But, yeah, legal inequality. The question is whether it will not become too disproportionate, because between five and twelve years are a lot of years. That is why I would like a detailed answer from the Minister so that we can think about this as a group. In other words, at least I have not yet taken a final position on this. I would first like to await the answers of the Minister and the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u74	That is sufficiently clear for Mr Raemakers. Then Mr Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u75	Mr Markuszower rightly reminded Mr Bontes of the PVV's proposal at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u76	That's the name I was trying to avoid, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u77	I think Mr Markuszower knows and recalls history very well. I'm grateful to him for that. On this basis, I would like to ask whether he also thinks that the present initiative proposal is an improvement, because it also contributes to an exception for situations of people with young children and people who are just before retirement, regardless of the transitional right that Mr Raemakers has already requested. Those are things that were not in the initiative proposal of those we will not mention. Does Mr Markuszower agree with me that this is an improvement and therefore deserves support?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u78	What I have a question about or at least noticed the difference is the existing cases before and after the entry into force. My group may not see any improvement there, but I will wait for the answers before I have a more definitive answer. On some other points, I can see that a lot of good-looking minds have looked at it. This has certainly led to issues that we can support. You can hope that if more people, including in this Chamber, have thought about it after rounds of questions and so on, it will lead to better legislation. So the answer is short: yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Van der Staaij will then speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The theme that the initiators put to us with this bill is a theme that is really close to the citizen, because many citizens experience injustice and discontent about existing rules. There's a lot of emotion, too. We also notice this in the e-mails we receive around this topic. I would therefore like to express my appreciation for the commitment to tackle this difficult issue. It has already come to light that we have discussed several initiatives here and that many of them often have many problems. That's why I appreciate this being picked up. Of course, this is not a guarantee of support for this proposal. Mr. Chairman. It is also good to consider the question: how do you look at this subject and what are your starting points? In the explanatory statement, the initiators write that divorce can no longer be thought away from our society, whether we like it or not. I think it has rightly been established that it is impossible to think away. We also have a view on the phrase 'whether we like it or not'. We don't like that practice. The exciting question, however, is how we deal with this practice. Should we proceed to the order of the day as soon as possible after a divorce and break all ties? Or is there still a special responsibility, whether we like it or not? Mr. Chairman. The questions about divorces are very old. I only read again about the Jewish teachers who told Jesus that it is still possible to divorce as long as you properly arrange it with a divorce letter. Jesus replied that divorce from the beginning was not the intention of the creator. It yields personal and social profit if we try to keep relationships intact as much as possible. That is the same realistic approach for us. The unity between married people is so strong that even after marriage we still speak of fate. When it comes to the word "fate bonding," we sometimes think of something in the sphere of "fate fate," but it is precisely the unity that was created by will accord. Even after a divorce, the shared history is indelible. That creates a special responsibility, especially when there are children. Mr. Chairman. The initiators, on closer examination, adhere to the legal basis of fate. I appreciate that. I think that is an important starting point for the design of a scheme. At the same time, I notice that it is very much viewed from the point of view: marriage must be more like an ordinary contract. I have also learned in my legal training that it is always good to realize that marriage is not a normal contract, but a genuinely independent legal arrangement of a special family-law nature. The legislator has also regulated a great deal: the beginning and the end, the rights and obligations that apply. In this sense, therefore, there is always a very special connection and there is a special, independent legal arrangement. Therefore, there is every reason for the government to be aware of social consequences. The initiators indicate that the current law can provoke and maintain unwanted behavior. We recognise that problem. Only after having devoted all your heart to the other, will you be put on the dike and then given the obligation to pay twelve years of alimony, while the ex-partner is trying to find a job of his own. So we understand that those feelings play out. That's what we're up against. Instead of the intended protection, that law would lead to entanglement and a sense of injustice. But yes, it is a bit of a sliding puzzle: if you solve one problem, you sometimes raise another problem. A problem may reappear in a different way under this bill. You'll only have cared for your son for years and been abandoned when that boy is 7 years old. Is it fair then that the man is already freed from his alimony obligation after five years and is now living with two generous salaries with a new girlfriend, while his ex has a lean wage plus the daily care for the child? These kinds of unfair situations can also arise under this bill. Well-meaning proposals can also result in you encouraging divorces rather than just regulating them. The SGP calls for attention to be paid to two groups which are particularly vulnerable to this bill. I think those groups have already been appointed by colleagues today. First of all, the minors. I believe that Mrs Van Toorenburg also made that point. In many cases, the protection of their position will be limited to the age of 12 years. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked why that is not 13 years old. I agree that at least that will help that group, but can't that still be on the agenda with 14 and 15 years? You can see that in young people of that age who have experienced divorce, there can be a lot of questions about care. How can this age limit be defended by the joint authority of both parents for their children? I also mention the group of older workers and the unemployed. A solution is offered for 55-plussers who have long been married. That's taken away; good thing. But there are also many older people who are excluded and we know that their chances in the labour market are considerably worse. Is the proposal fair to them? We pay particular attention to these two groups. More generally, this bill removes the possibility for the judge to provide customised services by setting a maintenance period of up to 12 years. The initiators defend this by stating that a hardness clause remains in place to avoid unfair situations. However, we do not see this clause as an equivalent alternative. Delivering customisation is a general freedom to do justice to different situations. We believe that this is particularly important in relation to the issue of divorce. The hardness clause is there to allow for derogations from the rules in very special cases. I would therefore like to hear a response from the initiators on this point. I believe that the scope for tailor-made work offers much more possibilities than just the hardness clause offered by the proposers. Is their expectation that the use of the hardness clause will increase considerably? In that case, we must ask ourselves why we want to abolish the possibility of tailor-made work. I think it would be more logical to try to reduce the automaticity of those 12 years and to further promote that customization. In dealing with the Bones initiative proposal, we have also concluded that simple solutions are always very attractive for clarity, but often seem to be ideally unsuitable for this repulsive problem. Finally, I would also like to ask for reflection on the risk of this legislative proposal giving rise in fact to an additional call on assistance. The initiators say that a period of five years is sufficient to find work. Whatever you think of it, in many cases it won't work. The call for assistance will then easily increase. Do the initiators really think that this is acceptable and is this not the correct way to proceed? Mr. Chairman. So many questions and comments and I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u81	Thank you very much. That brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-4.u82	As reported, we resume discussions at a time to be determined, so that the initiators and their staff have the opportunity to prepare a response to the Court's input and to formulate answers to the questions raised by the Chamber. Good luck with that! I'm suspending the meeting for lunch until 1:00.
