ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u1	I am the first speaker from the Chamber to give the floor to Mr Van Dam of the CDA. And, of course, I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u2	Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate was the leak of information by a detective from The Hague Unit. But, of course, I'm interested in the broader issue. I thank the Minister for the letters he wrote to the Chamber on this subject, but they do raise some questions. First of all, the police's annual review shows that compared to 2016, the number of investigations into integrity violations increased by 150 in 2017 to 1,509 investigations. There were 548 disciplinary investigations into 608 people, and 121 agents were fired. Should we be happy about that, or is this just a sign on the wall? Doesn't the police tolerate anything, and is that why there are more investigations into integrity violations? Or is it late maintenance and is it just going the wrong way with the integrity of our police? In short, what's going on? What insight do these figures provide, especially in the light of recruitment, selection and training? What lessons can we learn from it? I'd like an explanation from the Minister. Next question. Research by newspaper Trouw showed that the Rotterdam police conducted by far the majority of integrity investigations in 2015. Amsterdam and The Hague did much less research. How about this? Does this have anything to do with the personnel composition of such a unit? Does it have to do with the outside world, the environment? Or is it sensitivity within an integrity breach unit? Can the Minister explain these geographical differences? Several cases have come to me in the run-up to this debate. In that I find that when you, as a cop, are blamed for not acting with integrity, you can find yourself in a very difficult position. Next thing you know, you're gonna be suspended at home, and before you know it, the D.A.'s gonna get involved. What are the safeguards for policemen? The police must be integrity, but the integrity investigation itself must also be conducted with integrity. There is already a lot of uncertainty within the police, and an improperly conducted integrity investigation is chopping at it. I would particularly like to draw the Minister's attention to the conduct of integrity investigations by the internal agencies Security, Integrity and Complaints. The police have no separate disciplinary law. Staff law and criminal law are easily interwoven. VIK investigations are gonna be run by the state's attorney's office before you know it. I can imagine everything in the case of specific offences, but there is also an extensive category of investigations focusing on the way in which tasks are carried out, without the need for a criminal offence. Is there a protocol that the VIKs work by? What guarantees are in this and what lead times? When is there external communication? When is civil servants' rights transferred to criminal law, and who determines that? Mr. Chairman. The CDA has pleaded for one court to specialize in police brutality cases. It's nice to have one. But wouldn't it also be time to think about whether the police should have their own independent right of disciplinary action, in which the police themselves, as an employer, take their own responsibility? Disciplinary law has the advantage that it is not only about standards but also about learning, training and development. I'd like a response from the Minister to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u3	There's an interruption for you. So I'm gonna ask you to take a seat. Mrs Den Boer from D66 has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u4	In an attempt to make this intimate debate a bit exciting: I hope I have listened carefully to Mr Van Dam, and I think he is focusing on criminal law and disciplinary law. As far as the D66 Group is concerned, it is only at the end. There is, of course, a whole package of preventive and repressive measures. Where do you put the accent now? Do you think that the package described by the Minister in his letter of 12 March is not working properly? Or should more emphasis be placed on disciplinary law and criminal law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u5	These are actually two letters, in which the substance is said to be a bit the same. I must tell you that, in view of the way the Chief Constable is involved, I am actually convinced that the police are doing a great deal about the issue of prevention, organisation and sensitivity. Of all government organisations in the Netherlands, she might do the most. And rightly so, because integrity is, of course, one of the four core values of the corps. When I look at the whole subject, I notice the differences, as I said in my speech. I hope that this increase in the figures is positive. That's what I asked. But I would also like to draw attention to a number of things that have come to my attention. The legal profession, to take an example that may be close to the minister's experience, has its own right of disciplinary action. That world has its own standards and its own assessment of how people act there, whether or not that is right. You can also go to the state's attorney's office. That's where you can complain. But that's another story. I can see too much of that getting mixed up in the police department. I think, also in the light of the new system of violence that is coming, that the police would be greatly helped if they could make independent judgments about what people do or do not do. I am a little less enthusiastic about answering the written questions. Those were questions that you asked, which I saw coming by today. I don't see why it shouldn't be published internally. Of course, you have to anonymize that, but you can learn from each other if someone in the police organisation is rightly informed in their own organisation after their own assessment and if that is made known internally. That can also set the standard. This can be clear from Groningen to Limburg. But then it must be done in a fair, clear way. I now feel that this is not always the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u6	Of course, I share the concerns about integrity violations in the police. D66 also takes that very seriously. I am pleased to get this explanation. But I still want to understand where you're going with this. Do you want to punish for anything else, for more punishment? Do you think that the instrument as it now exists is not sufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u7	I believe that the instruments currently in place are mixed up. Let me put it very harshly: if a policeman is suspected of a criminal offence, then we have the National Criminal Court for that, and if the policeman is suspected internally of something that is not criminal but wrong according to his own standards, then you may have the VIK offices for that. But now it's running through each other. I do not like that for the expression of the individual officer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u8	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Helder of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u9	The chair is a bit high. It was a nice recess, but I haven't grown in length, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Every leak is one too many. Two comments on this. My group believes that this is a matter for the department. Let us not forget that more than 65,000 people are employed by the police. Is that an excuse? Definitely not. I have also looked at the figures, but unlike my colleague, Mr Van Dam, I did compare them with the previous year's figures, 2016. At that time there were 1,351 investigations and 126 redundancies, whether parole or not. In 2017, 1,509 investigations and 121 were fired. I understand that the reason for this is that more attention has been paid to integrity. I would like to point out that the Minister and the corps leadership agree with my group that each leak is too much. The Minister has also written that there is no pattern of serious dereliction of duty. Of course, that's something the Chamber needs to know. So I can be very brief, Mr President. I'm coming to a conclusion. I can always say on behalf of my group that we are extremely proud of our police organisation, especially the men and women in blue, on the streets. I was allowed to make some nice work visits in the recess. That is why I can also say from the bottom of my heart to the Minister: give people what they need, including the collective agreement. I hope that the interim proceedings will not have to go ahead next Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u10	Thank you. Mrs Kuik is not taking part in the debate. I give the floor to Mrs Den Boer from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the proverbial rotten apple in the police organization. If one rotten apple goes molding, the whole fruit bowl goes down. I can't escape the impression that the minister can appreciate a good episode of Bad cop, good cop. But what if the archetype of the wrong policewoman or policeman turns out not to be fiction but fact? It's a good plot for a book, but it's definitely not for practice. D66 therefore takes the coverage of the leaking detective very seriously. It's serious because integrity is a core value of national police. Unfortunately, in recent years, we have also seen other incidents, such as the police mole selling confidential police information to criminals, or lack of integrity in procurement and procurement. Mr. Chairman. The leaking of information is therefore not a new problem. Can the Minister outline a picture of the nature, seriousness and extent of this problem? How is the leaking of information monitored? What is the role of the aforementioned Agency Security, Integrity and Complaints in this? Does the Minister have any idea of the motives of detectives to act underminingly? The Ruys Committee noted that the approach to cross-standard police behaviour was weakly developed. What's the status of the police organization's moral compass? Do police officers feel safe enough to report incidents of integrity to their superiors? It is also serious that it is not just the actions of an individual, but the actions of an individual in the context of the police organisation. Non-integer action in this context sends a wrong signal to colleagues and to society. So it's also about organizational culture. If no firm action is taken against this, a culture of looking away, of being tolerated, will arise. If it's D66, we won't let that happen. Mr. Chairman. As far as the D66 Group is concerned, prevention is better than cure. I would ask the Minister how this problem is addressed in training, particularly in terms of prevention and mental resilience. What's the status of police screening? Is it repeated at regular intervals? And how is the leaking of information assessed and punished? Finally, what is the situation with regard to the recovery and correction capacity of the Dutch police? In other words, how does the police organization learn from these incidents? Finally, Mr President. Unethical action by the police must be smothered in the bud. The leaders of the police must therefore act consistently and decisively, do not let the reins be celebrated and above all be the model of a very good cop. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u12	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Rutte of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u13	Mr. Chairman. The passing on of information to criminals is very damaging. It undermines the credibility of the police and encourages organised crime. The report that led to today's debate, that a police detective leaked information to criminals for one and a half years and a half, is unfortunately not an incident. It was already the fourth leak at this police unit in a short time. The police report that the number of leaks in this police unit is no greater than elsewhere in the organization. I don't know if that's a reassuring answer or not. Because does it mean that leaks are common throughout the organization? I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. That leaks are not limited to the police in The Hague, it also turned out last week, when the report came out that the massive police raid in a district in Almelo was related to the previous arrest of two agents who leaked sensitive information through the gym where they regularly came. Mr. Chairman. National police have successfully worked on a single database of all police information in recent years, so that police officers have access to all available information during the search. That is a great step forward, but it is also a huge risk when agents are corrupted and sharing information with criminals, terrorists or even state actors. I have the following questions to the Minister. The first question is: how is it technically ensured that only right holders can access this database? The second question is: is there also an adequate record of who has consulted what information? The third question: how will the search behaviour of agents in this database be monitored? Is there an active search with technical and human resources for abnormal search behaviour? The fourth question: who else have access to this database, other than agents? Is it possible that D.A. employees have access to sensitive data? If so, how is it monitored to prevent sensitive information from leaking out of the search file within the Public Prosecutor's Office? Mr. Chairman. Securing information with technical and human resources is one, but leaking is also an integrity problem. It may arise in a culture in which policemen do not address each other sufficiently to behavior. Mrs Den Boer said the same thing. Police scientist Jaap Timmer and chairman Jan Struijs of the Dutch Police Union state that within the national police forces there is a taboo on discussing these matters. There'd be some sort of silence culture around bad cops. In reply to questions on this subject, the Minister indicated that the police recognise this and that work should be done on an integrity culture in which abuses are not swept under the carpet, but just discussed and reported. It's not quite clear what's going on with this culture trajectory. Is it just fine words or are we actually taking steps? Can the Minister indicate what concrete actions and what concrete results can we expect from them within a clear period of time? Is the external group pressure also specifically considered in these sections, which can encourage agents to leak? Are agents who experience this pressure and have the guts to share it with their superiors that is difficult enough to support and protect against such pressure? According to the VVD, the latter is of great importance in order to achieve a culture in which agents are integrity and integrity. And that is, of course, in the utmost importance of our country's security. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u14	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Raak of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u15	Mr. Chairman. If the police are not in integrity, the country's security is in danger. We're talking tonight about the case of a detective in The Hague who leaked information to criminals. That happened in January. It's September now. I can say, couldn't we have discussed this somewhere else before? But it is a good thing that we are doing that tonight, because the problem is far from gone. In The Hague, policemen who were not honest and passed on information to criminals have been much more frequent in the past. The police in The Hague also say: the police in The Hague is not unique in that, because that happens in all parts of the country. I think that's true. I also think it is a good thing that the Minister has sent us letters and put forward proposals, although I was not so impressed by the proposal of a theatre show developed specifically for this purpose. However, I am impressed by the research of the Minister's Research and Documentation Centre. This has shown how organised crime is gaining more and more control over the upper world, including the police, and that the police are still doing too little to tackle corruption, non-intelligent action. The report also says that there is an over-representation of the number of employees with a migration background. Is that right? What about feelings of double loyalty? Can the Minister clarify that? The research also gives a profile of the wrong investigating officer: relatively young, little self-control, poor handling of setbacks and frustration and has a desire for adventure and luxury. I did recognize that, because the COR and other people at the police station showed the same behavior. I also see that the police have been cutting back for years. A lot of people leave the police because of age and other things or because they just can't handle it anymore. So a lot of young people are needed. The police academy is under pressure. On the one hand, we need to get new people very quickly, but on the other hand, how can we ensure that we get the right people? I said something about that closed culture. The Central Works Council and other people at the top, such as Bernard Welten, and that sort of thing is also a symbol of double standards for policemen. Mrs Helder quite rightly said that the vast majority of the agents are super loyal. Super loyal, for many years! They've been on zero for years. They fill the holes in the grids. They need to replace colleagues and tell them at home that they can't be home again or that they can't go to the party again. Then I also expect loyalty from the Chief Constable, who will stand before his people. If the Minister then says that all those agents who have been on the zero line for five years have been filling holes for 50 years, doing everything for five years to keep the organization running despite everything, must become more flexible, I understand the anger. Then I understand the string is breaking. I'm asking the Minister if he understands that. I also ask the Minister to leave it out of his mind to go to court to prevent the legitimate actions of police officers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u16	Thank you. The Minister would like to answer the Chamber in about ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u17	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u18	Thank you, Mr President. We're talking about police integrity today. I would like to say a few words about this. I have pointed out several times to international research, in which our police in the field of integrity and professionalism worldwide comes seventh. An outstanding achievement, with an overall figure of 8.4 on a scale of 10. I would like to say this at the beginning, because we really have a police force that is among the best in the world at this point, as in other respects. But there can always, as Mrs Den Boer said, be a wrong apple in a basket of good apples. That is why it is a good thing that we are debating this issue today. The police must be integrity. This is essential for the trust of society. The reason for this debate was the news at the beginning of this year about a detective in the Hague Unit who was suspected of leaking information to criminals for a year and a half. I wrote to you about that in March. You understand that I do not go into individual cases. That's up to the judge. What I can tell you is that, when we talk about disciplinary investigations in the police, it ultimately amounts to 0.9% of the total number of people employed by the police. We must therefore realise that it is a clear, but nevertheless important issue. A lot of things are being done in terms of prevention, integrity and education, but also in the workplace. I will discuss them immediately in the context of the reply. There's always more to be done. I hope to contribute to this by, among other things, legislation in the field of continuous screening. If you will allow me, I would like to proceed immediately with the answer to the questions, because they contain most of the points. Mr Van Dam, who has requested the debate, has asked for further reflection on the figures for 2016-2017. I must admit that I am repeating somewhat what has already been put forward by the Member of Parliament, Mr Helder. More investigations have been carried out, but this has not led to an increase in redundancies due to serious absence of duty. On the contrary. The increase in research shows that integrity clearly has the attention of the police. Furthermore, the police say that there is no connection or pattern. I would like to emphasise once again that in the end a very small percentage, not even a percent, of the total number of police officers is the subject of investigation. Mr Van Dam asked whether it could be explained that Rotterdam police have more than other units of integrity investigations. These are numbers that are not such that we can explain this further, for example that there would be specific, quantitatively more common problems in Rotterdam. The police also strives to publish an anonymised overview of all disciplinary measures imposed from 2019. This means that we are getting more insight into the nature of the incidents, because that is not always clear, as I can imagine. I come to the so-called VIK. Is there a protocol with which that Department of Security, Integrity and Complaints works? Yes. The entire working process of the VIK department is laid down in internal protocols, which are also aligned with participation. VIK researchers are trained to conduct careful and professional research into what are ultimately colleagues. The police aim to conduct investigations as soon as possible, where the lead time of course depends on the size or complexity of a case. The police report in the annual report on the results of the criminal firings. Furthermore, as said, from next year onwards, the police want to indicate more anonymised about what kind of cases they are dealing with. The question then is who or what determines the difference between civil servants and criminal law. Mr Van Dam points out that this can run through each other. In the event of incidents, incidents, declarations or notifications, the competent authority, the chief of police or the supervisor, shall decide whether an internal investigation is to be initiated. Notifications also come to the competent authority. If there is a reasonable suspicion that the person concerned has committed a criminal offence when reporting a presumption of absence of duty, the competent authority shall inform the Chief Prosecutor. That decision whether to initiate a criminal investigation. I was struck by a remark made by Mr Van Dam at the end of his speech when he expressed some concern about the running of the VIK's investigation procedure and what might result from it, namely more civil service and criminal law. I think that this is a valid point, all things considered. I would like to assure you that I will return to your Chamber in a letter to the answer to the question of whether we are actually seeing this happen in practice, so that it actually does not do enough for police officers because there is some kind of double-crossing. For me, that is actually the most important question in the context of this debate. You can immediately conclude that I am not in favour of an external disciplinary body at the moment. In itself, the system works well. Those Departments of Security, Integrity and Complaints with the police are doing a professional and careful investigation, as I have just indicated. All this has been recorded and I am not going to repeat it here. And now it comes: in order to promote uniformity, the competent authority is always advised to have the penalty level assessed by a punitive consultation, consisting of specialized labour lawyers. These are, moreover, lawyers who are not involved in the specific investigation. So there's a very clear penalty test. In addition, there are, of course, always opportunities for officials to object and appeal, including outside bodies. As these two systems now work, it is my view that the introduction of disciplinary law would have no added value and would not lead to additional learning effects: that should be done precisely by the VIK procedure. However, I would like to take up the point, and I would like to return to your Chamber, that it should of course be the case that criminal law and disciplinary law should not get mixed up. We need to see if those processes can be better separated. Moreover, I would add a postscript: this danger is also lurking in the face of the introduction of disciplinary law. In fact, you'll even get three jobs running through each other. Having said that, I shall return to this point. Then I come to Mrs Helder's questions. I have to say, somewhat renovated, that she had more compliments on that than questions. Those compliments weren't for me, they were for the police, and they're right. I actually did it in my introduction, but I think it is good to underline that. However, she had also asked how things are now with regard to integrity. There's really an active integrity policy in the police department. In recent years there has been an extra effort on this. Much more attention is paid to the preventive side of this. I hope Mrs Helder will not blame me if I also draw that part to Mrs Den Boer's reply. There is also the point of making police officers more resilient. I believe that Mr Van Raak pointed out that research shows that young police officers in particular sometimes still have a hard time indicating the exact moments in which this resilience is needed. Let me just put it this way. That is precisely what the police academy, but also in the follow-up education of the police, sends a great deal of attention: to the resilience, to identifying integrity issues at the right moments and to practicing processes in which you can address each other. I must say that the theater show Raw, which Mr Van Raak took a little off, is precisely a means which is greatly appreciated by policemen. In fact, I would like once again to recommend to the Members of the European Parliament that we look at this proposal once more, whether in the context of a working visit or not. I would personally sponsor Mr Van Raak's popcorn. I would also like to say a few words about screening in the context of prevention and so on. As you know, I have consulted the law screening officers of police and police externals. It will also be possible to examine the environment, such as the partner. There'll be a continuous screening. That's very important. That screening is carried out in order to periodically protect people from lack of resilience. Mrs Den Boer asked: how is leaks now punished? If internal disciplinary investigations show that there is a lack of duty, this will also be disciplined. The competent authority, after consulting the so-called punitive consultation that I have just spoken about, determines the level of the sanction. All circumstances of the case are considered. By learning experiences and through discussions, work transfer and all these awareness processes, people are really getting further into that. Mr Rutte wondered whether there would be sufficient support for agents to report abuses to their managers. Leaders play a crucial role in working on the culture I just described. It is therefore also very important that they know how to deal with this kind of integrity issues and with police people who have problems with them or who are confronted with them in their environment. All 800 executives are therefore attending a two-day meeting on integrity and how to work on it. That started last year, in 2017. Mr Rutte asked somewhat cynically: if the number of leaks in The Hague is not higher than elsewhere in the organisation, does that mean that it is common throughout the organisation? On behalf of the Chief Constable, a qualitative analysis of the leaking of information is carried out by the Police Academy. It also addresses motives and risk factors. That investigation will be completed in October. I think it would be good to discuss it in an AO Police Department or otherwise with your Chamber if the investigation is there. I would like to stress once again that integrity is an essential part of police education. I actually have two more things. Mr Rutte asked me: how is the technical security of access to and maintenance of police systems? The police and I share the importance of ensuring that access to information is well organised and secure. The process of issuing and withdrawing authorisations for police systems in the event of the placement, movement and exit of employees has been automated by the police and is now used by all units. Since January 2016, the police have also applied the four-eyed principle, whereby the application for an authorisation above a certain level is reviewed by an additional supervisor. The police are still working on a good system for keeping track of who consulted what information with the Logging as a Service project. Furthermore, a pilot to monitor atypical signals is soon to be launched in one unit to see if people are suddenly consulting files that you say are: why is they doing so by virtue of their function? It is all necessary because the Data Protection Directive also requires this. Anyway, it's gonna be a while before it's all implemented properly by the police. Mr Rutte has asked who else has access to the police systems besides police officers. The D.A. has direct access to those systems based on the Police Data Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u19	The Minister continued with the answer to my next question, which is very nice, but I would like to go back to the first. The minister thinks it's important that we look at who's looking at that data and whether there's any weird patterns in it, but the police aren't so far away that they're really able to track that down, and that's why we're starting with a pilot. Do I understand the Minister that well? When do we expect it to be well arranged? Can a deadline be attached to this, given the vulnerability of all that data in one system?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u20	I find it very tricky to call it a hard time right now. A pilot is being held in one unit. Then we will be able to give you first conclusions on this at the earliest in the next spring. Of course it takes a while before it is really in there and you can actually see patterns. Of course, this is not the case after two weeks or a month.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u21	Another supplementary question. Does the Minister himself think that there is enough ambition in the knowledge that the one police system in which all these data can be found and where there is really very sensitive information for evildoers is already there, while the system that needs to recognize patterns to ensure that evildoers are actually detected is not yet there? Isn't that a little weird? Isn't the ambition to do a pilot first, not a little low?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u22	I am in conversation with the corps leadership about putting more resources into the faster and better run, which is of course very important to roll out these kinds of systems and applications, so that we can have control here the sooner. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Raak, like Mrs Helder, said a number of very positive things about the functioning of the police, apart from a number of concerns, which of course he has also expressed. That culminated in his question whether I understand that the string of some policemen could gradually break in the light of things like the workload. I would like to say a few words about this. Over the last few months, as Mr Van Raak knows, I have spent most of my time working on the problem of the workload and the really high absenteeism of the police. The problem of PTSD is really shocking. I note that in the coming period there will be a very important responsibility for the corps leadership and for me to ensure that it improves. I've shared that in conversations with police officers and with police unions. When I didn't know so much about beating and blowing, during my first AO Police in general I indicated that this should be part of the good working conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u23	Exactly, good conditions, good working conditions. There's a lot of absenteeism, also because there's a lot of pressure, because cops go through something every day. You can process that if you get the time, but it counts. And after 40 years, it all adds up. Does the Minister agree with me that over the last five years we have asked a lot of agents, both financially and in terms of time? They had to make sacrifices in their personal lives. And does the Minister agree with me that at least it has been very unfortunate that the Minister has said: I want to talk about working conditions, but then we need to work more flexibly? Can the Minister imagine that at that time a lot of men and women, thousands of agents who are now back at work tonight, had the rope snapped?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u24	Yeah, if I'd said so. But I think Mr Van Raak is giving the conversations and the discussion a very distorted way, because that is not what happened. In the context of the talks, which also have to do with continuing the process of forming the national police force, and which are also closely related to modernisation, including for the benefit of the police, a mutual flexibilisation agenda has been discussed. Of course, you can make a caricature out of that by saying that it is only about cutting working conditions from the employer's side. That's a caricature. I am not going to speak here tonight about the otherwise good talks that have been going on for at least six weeks between the unions and the negotiators on the side of the police, but I can assure you that this is a process in which, at least on my behalf, it has been stressed that this workload must be an important point in the discussions and that it must be translated into a different environment over the next few years. I very much understand the fact that, in recent years, the people who work in the police have been given an increased role in the formation of the national police, I say, because on the one hand they had to cooperate in the formation of that one national police force and, on the other hand, Kuijken also had to pay tribute in his report to maintaining the confidence of citizens in the police simply by doing good work. I think there is no other reason, nor is it wise, to polarize that discussion in caricatures. They won't help us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u25	In fact, I would like to remind Members that this is not really the subject of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u26	The President is right about that. But the Minister has gone into it quite extensively, so I would like to ask one short supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u27	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u28	I have to say that this evening the President is right not to come out with the Minister. The minister needs to get out with the policemen. I think it would be very good to say here that we need to work very hard to restore confidence. I do not think that will restore confidence when the Minister goes to court to prevent police officers from exercising their right to take action. Is the Minister prepared to at least take a first step and say: what I announced today, that I am going to judge my own people, am I at least not going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u29	That is not the point of this debate at all. So I am not going to go into that now, Madam President. I also think it is a very strange question for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u30	Thank you. Have you finished your first-term response?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u31	Yeah, I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u32	Mrs Den Boer has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u33	Mr. Chairman. The Minister has appointed a whole series of measures: attention to mental resilience, screening, a protocol, punitive consultation. I'm quite impressed by that. Education also plays an important role, of course. However, I would like to hear from the Minister how he thinks all these measures are going to enter the police organisation, how they are perceived and also what effect he provides. Does he indeed think that this integrity package, if I may call it that, including screening, will lead to the desired reduction of integrity violations in the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u34	There are two things. First of all, of course, you always want to bring it to zero, but I have already pointed out that in the end it is only a very small number of integrity violations. The Dutch police are very high on the index of integrity police forces in the world. I think the first thing is that you have to keep it that way, and that you want to maintain and develop the integrity and honesty, which are very high in the name of the police and policemen, also in a technologically developed society, a society in which all kinds of things, including all kinds of temptations, come towards us. That is why much attention is paid to education at the Police College and I also think it is right that we continue to invest in it and invest further in it. The second point, of course, is that you hope that you will be able to reduce that percentage of 0.9% of people involved in disciplinary investigations. I think that good prevention, by making it possible to discuss it with people, by practicing them, by putting them into fictional situations and so on, is one pillar. A second pillar is, of course, to have a fair system with each other to monitor, monitor, screen it. The third pillar, the last one, is punishing those who have gone wrong. That must be a fair system, but one that sends out clear signals. At that point, I also took up Van Dam's point. I would like to make it even more clear to your Chamber that these two routes are very separate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u35	A quick question. Then I'll probably be able to waive a second term. The minister just indicated that the use of data will be monitored, first in a pilot, to see if there are any weird patterns in it. The Minister also said, on another question from me, that the people of the Public Prosecutor's Office can always access those dates. Is that pilot also monitoring the data search process of the people of the Public Prosecutor's Office, to see if there are any strange patterns in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u36	I must confess that I don't know. But I can imagine that if you measure separate patterns, that extends to users of the D.A. But I can't tell you for sure. On the other hand, it is precisely a question of getting a good picture of police use.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u37	What the Minister can imagine, I can also imagine. But I would very much appreciate it if he would promise me that he will at least investigate whether the search activities of the people of the prosecution are being taken away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u38	I have already said that at another AO we have to talk about some of these things anyway, and that it makes sense for me to tell you in advance how this is going to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u39	Then we'll get the second term. Is there an interest in that? Yes, Mr. Van Dam is getting up. I'll take a look at the other members. Are there any more members? Yes. Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u40	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. I had prepared a motion on the issue of the integrity investigation and the criminal investigation. I shall table this motion, but also, above all, to see if what the Minister has promised fits in with what I wanted. I have also removed something from it, by the way, about an investigation into it. I absolutely do not want it to lead to more fuss than necessary. We don't talk about individual matters here, but things like that come to me. That's kind of the concern I have. That's where it's sprouting out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the police do not have independent disciplinary law, such as doctors, lawyers and notaries;]] [[Whereas the integrity investigations carried out by the VIK offices may lead to both a disciplinary and a criminal response or a combination of those two and the nature of such an investigation is often unknown to the police officer concerned;]] [[Whereas this leads to serious legal uncertainty among police officers;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify the pros and cons of a separate police disciplinary law and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Dam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28844-154]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would have guessed that Mr Van Dam would table his motion, because my group also needs clarification by the Minister. My group sees police justice as an ultimatum remedium. I know that the former chief of police also called for an independent police disciplinary law, but that was meant to prevent policemen who had to apply violence from coming before the criminal court. The Minister has prepared the bill on the use of violence investigation officer in preparation, and I note that this has been going on for a very long time, but we have the decision on the general legal status of the police. Article 76 (2) of that directive, for the lover, states what falls under dereliction of duty, but that is a very open standard. As far as I am concerned, that is the sympathy for the motion. It's about preventing legal uncertainty in the police. I have heard the Minister say that it is about promoting uniformity, but then he talked about the punitive consultation. As far as my group is concerned, that is too late, because it has to be on the front side of the question: when will the choice be made for criminal law or for police justice or, in fact, the VIK route, to put it very popularly? My group is not in favour of police officers who have to answer to the criminal court. I would like a clarification from the Minister on Mr Van Dam's motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u42	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u43	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ien Dales once gave us an important lesson: we can't be a little bit honest. I am very pleased with the Minister's reply. I see he takes the problem of non-integrity seriously. I am very curious whether the package of measures that he has put into effect and that he has also announced some of them will have any effect. I'm curious about the anonymized screening. I think this is particularly a moment to remind us that the Netherlands can be very critical about the police abroad, but that we should also look very critically at ourselves, that we should keep looking in the mirror. I'd like to stick with that for tonight. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u44	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I give the floor to the Minister to appreciate the motion and to answer the questions that have been put.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u45	Mr. Chairman. I find that rather difficult, because in general Mr Van Dam's motions are very sympathetic to me, but at first we are dealing with a few other things, first of all with the bill on violence, which was given priority in the coalition agreement. In addition, I have just indicated that I would like to show your Chamber in a letter that the current system of VIK proceedings and criminal proceedings do not interfere or overlap. As far as I am aware, this is the case, I have already indicated to your Chamber how these two routes can be separated from each other. If we have done the evaluation of this together, we can ask whether it is a good thing to do separate police disciplinary law alongside those two, which would not be criminal law, but always the VIK procedure, or whether we should replace it with a police disciplinary law. However, I do not think it is appropriate at this stage to set aside the pros and cons of a separate police justice. 'Cause then we're going a little too far down the road.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u46	I once learned that the best way to eat an elephant is to chop it up and then work in one piece at a time. In the light of that lesson, I agree with the Minister that the step by step might be better than to take the step straight to the right of disciplinary action or not. But can I now take the Minister's promise in such a way that he sets out again in a letter how things go from A, the reporting, the suspicion, to Z, what choice do we make in the matter? That is often a choice between the unit management and the parquet, where also things happen that I think are known to individual officers. My interest is to have that intelligible. If the Minister undertakes to do so, I can live very well with it and I am willing to make my motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u47	Hold on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u48	Well, to hold on or maybe even bring home again. I am concerned with the following: we live in a time when many police officers are in uncertainty about everything and everything. At that point, I want to stand next to them. I fully agree that this is a very small part of the police, but it is a certainty for all policemen that if you enter that situation, you will be treated fairly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u49	First of all, the MP Van Dam and I both have the same........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Because I think we both want this right so that all cops know where they stand and have some kind of legal certainty on this point, and they don't end up in all kinds of double-cross situations. And on the second, the answer is yes. I'd like to give you that insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u50	Are you withdrawing your motion? Because taking home is a form that we do not yet know in our parliamentary history.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u51	I would like to ask you to raise this at the Bureau. No, I'm withdrawing her with this promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u52	Since the Van Dam motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-23.u53	We don't have to vote on anything. We close the meeting and start fresh and fruity tomorrow.
