ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u1	Let us now turn to Mrs Ouwehand's question to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, whom I welcome, about the news that Dutch imports of palm oil have increased after years. I call Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Dutch imports of palm oil have increased again after years. This is positive for the economic figures for which the cabinet can make a big deal of sense. The Netherlands is almost the largest trader in palm oil. It's really bad news for the earth's vitality. The production of palm oil is accompanied by large-scale destruction of areas, rainforests, peat bogs, which we need to keep our ecosystems intact and to stop climate change. For palm oil, one million football fields per year are cut down on rainforest. The cabinet's commitment since 2004 has been to support a round table for so-called sustainable palm oil. The aim is to ensure that palm oil production complies with environmental, climate and human rights standards. Since these tables in 2004, this Chamber has regularly dealt with human rights organisations, animal protection organisations and environmental organisations. Those appointments are a joke. Not for the people who are driven away from their country and then allowed to return as debt slaves. Not for the people who live in those areas that are widely polluted. And certainly not for the animals who lose their last habitat. This morning, word came that the last male white rhinoceros in the North was extinct. The same fate awaits the orangutan and the Sumatran tiger. We would very much like to hear from the self-appointed greenest cabinet ever that it is going to focus on reducing the import of palm oil. In addition to the so-called sustainability, this is absolutely necessary. This can be done by, for example, introducing a levy. Palm oil is an incredibly cheap filler that is in everything, in cookies, sweets, chocolates, crackers and so on, because it's so cheap. This is completely unnecessary and in the light of climate conditions incredibly irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you and good afternoon, Madam President. Thanks for the question, too. I have also just read and taken note of the article. At the moment, I can only describe it as interesting that imports of palm oil into Europe have increased again after four years of decline. Indeed, it shows a higher demand because of the cheap use of palm oil in whole series of products, and of course also demand. We are indeed a relatively large importer of crude palm oil in Europe, as stated in the article. Much is processed for export to other countries. The port of Rotterdam will, of course, be of particular benefit. We have to recognise that. I share the concerns and the cabinet shares the concerns about the deforestation that the production of palm oil leads to, and about the wider sustainable picture and the future of the earth. I also see no difference whatsoever in matters such as working conditions, living wages and equal opportunities. I think the approach is different. I don't support a tax. I think we will get into trouble very quickly at the WTO. As agreed by previous Cabinets, we are continuing to promote the sustainability of production while at the same time using development cooperation resources to address labour, fair pay and development cooperation programmes. I know there is a disagreement about the organisation you mentioned, the round table for sustainable palm oil. We believe that this organisation is effective. Indeed, there is criticism on the NGO side, especially on the RSPO, the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil. I can't help it, Madam President, the club calls itself by an English name. If the standard is broken, action will be taken. It is one of the highest standards in industry in the sector. At the same time, we also know from NGOs such as Solidaridad and IDH who are working on sustainability, including in the field, that the targets set for 2020, for example, have already reached 90% for the Dutch market. Can we do more? Then the question is how. A levy is not the answer. We will also have to do it together at European level and work together. I believe that this is precisely why the Amsterdam Declaration on sustainable palm oil is good and continues to set a good goal. On all visits, such as recently in Malaysia and Vietnam, I have also gained the importance of action and acceleration on the road to total sustainability of the palm oil industry. We are going to look at that again with the business community and organisations that are there. As I reported, there are OS resources to see, where relevant, how we can deal with this effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u5	We are aware of the commitment of the previous Cabinets, and I am disappointed that this minister, who is responsible for human rights in any case, is so easily looking away from the major and serious criticism of this sustainability. In 2014, therefore, ten years after those tables had had the space to prove themselves, CLM had to conclude that a substantial part of the imported palm oil products in the Netherlands come from production methods that are contrary to the law. The Chamber is constantly getting signals from human rights organisations and nature conservation organisations that the agreements of those tables are insufficient. Another point: in many cases this palm oil is not necessary at all. What is good and sustainable about putting palm oil plantations in areas far away, then dragging that oil to the Netherlands and putting it into products we don't need? The previous cabinet wanted to pretend that the climate and environmental damage would be even greater if we replaced it, but we could also eat less meat together. We are dealing with overweight in the Netherlands. It's not like we're starving to death if we use a little less palm oil. I would like the Minister to take these two points seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u6	The last point is, of course, a matter of philosophy and personal way of life, when it comes to eating more or less meat. I personally agree with that, but I don't necessarily see it as something I'm going to say as a minister. It is the choice for everyone to contribute, but that is another consideration. Much more important, I think, is a point on which I do disagree with you, very clearly, namely about a voluntary approach in many of these matters. As has also been shown by the covenants so far, there is cooperation with the private sector and with the support of the government, NGOs and others. We also see this in other sectors, using other means, such as OS, trade support and technological support. You can come up with a range of measures. Right now, that's the best way to work. This is also confirmed by many of the NGOs we work with. You are referring to legislation or a ban right away. We have already discussed trade talks on behalf of the cabinet in another AO which, when it comes to legislation in a market to combat abuses, has not yet been proved to be the right way forward. There is cooperation with the ILO. We support that. The child labour fund is already a means. I reported other development co-operation resources. Two years after the evaluation of a number of agreements in top sectors, we can see whether and under what conditions what form of legislation will be effective. I don't think you can argue that legislation is the means. I think that many of the poorest will then be in an even more vulnerable position. I do not think that we can promote the sustainability agenda through market shift either. We will also lose the political support needed in countries where palm oil is produced. I believe that we will not achieve the overall goal of sustainability in a way that is sustainable in the long term, and that is a great concern. Human rights, yes. You will also see this in the memo on foreign trade and OS, but there are many choices in the pursuit and realisation of human rights. Legislation is not the only one. Of course we will hear the voice of NGOs. If we have reports of human rights violations, we will also take action and address the relevant organisations or authorities correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u7	I do not want to be ugly to the Minister, but we can only conclude that the proposed approach still does not work after 14 years, that we have now been talking here for ten minutes, that twenty more football fields have been cut off from rainforest and that the greenest cabinet is ever okay with making a big buck out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you. You may respond briefly, but you do not have to. Then I will go to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you to Mrs Ouwehand for raising this important issue. We recently had a general discussion on imvo, international corporate social responsibility. One of the themes we discussed there was chain responsibility. I have the following question to the Minister: how do we know at the moment whether the importers of palm oil actually take that supply chain responsibility, and how do we implement it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u10	The sustainability is indeed mainly achieved in cooperation with the food sector, through the Dutch Alliance for Sustainable Palm Oil. According to that association, in which most of the chain employees participate, thus also on the Dutch side, 90% of the sustainability has already been achieved in the Dutch market. A concern of course remains the transport via Rotterdam to other countries. How we can look at that better is, of course, a question. I have already indicated that we are not ruling that out, but that is what the Amsterdam declaration is for, because we are moving in this direction at European level. Then I have to go back and look at the market segment, at what is going on from Rotterdam to Europe, which is probably the majority of them and what is going on outside, and what we can do about it from a chain responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u11	I give the floor to Mr Bouali, on behalf of D66. No, Mrs. Van den Hul, you can't ask any more questions. Mr Gijs van Dijk has already asked a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u12	What is now on the table is an important theme. In any case, it is good to see that the Minister discussed this in detail with the Minister responsible for palm oil and the trade in palm oil in Malaysia during her recent visit to Malaysia. We also discussed international corporate social responsibility in the previous AO. This is also an important issue there. My question to the Minister is: how do we ensure that we work together at European level with other EU Member States to push this issue in the right direction? And can the Minister say whether she will include this in the letter she has promised to Commissioner Timmermans to set an example on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u13	Yes, this will also be part of the letter to Commissioner Timmermans. We are also working together, both within the European Commission and within the European Trade Councils, and we are talking to the Commission about this, wherever we put it when it is appropriate. And, of course, it is also an opportunity for the European Parliament, for the parties involved who are represented there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u14	The Party for Animals just made a caricature of the efforts made by Dutch companies to import sustainable palm oil. 90% of the palm oil imported by Dutch companies is sustainable, so a caricature is really made of it. The question to the Minister is: does she object or does she see any objections if the Netherlands is going to import more sustainable palm oil? Or does she see this as an incentive for small farmers in Malaysia and Indonesia for extra income? In my opinion, many Dutch companies are already doing sustainability and are transparent. Do we see another problem in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you for this question. This comes back to a very fundamental question put by Mrs Ouwehand. In this case, it is up to the consumer to determine whether it is sustainable. We know that consumers want more and more certainty that this is produced sustainably. The governments of Malaysia and Indonesia, for example, have clearly indicated that sustainability will stop in the short term if we stop importing. That will be the result. At the same time, I see no objection to the use of palm oil in products where this is relevant. It is up to companies to play an active role and see if there is any possibility of substitution, substitution, in the long term. Consumers can also ask for it. Companies can also follow the example of Unilever, which shows which products used sustainable palm oil in their production. These are all choices, but I personally see no objection to the use of sustainable palm oil in production.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u16	We all know, of course, that the production of palm oil is accompanied by gross violations of human rights and nature. You're gonna report that yourself. We see that there is also increasing imports of palm oil in the Netherlands. At the same time, today or yesterday, I lost a message that Dutch companies are hardly transparent about where they get their palm oil. We may have good quality marks, but if companies do not want to tell us how they operate, then we also have too little information. I was wondering if the Minister would also work with the Secretary of State for IenW when it comes to mixing palm oil as biofuel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you for this question. The incorporation of biofuel is another matter. There are new guidelines. A motion has also been passed. There is an effort by the cabinet to combat this effectively. This is also discussed in the European Parliament. We do not yet have any information on the incorporation of biofuels this year. That information will only be made available by the Dutch Emission Authority in April of this year. Then we can see whether there is an increase in this area as well. But it's a different form. It's a different pattern. In the meantime, we are aware of the dangerous consequences of the direct contribution of the blending of biofuels. Again, both issues, the danger or risk of deforestation and the sustainability agenda, are fully addressed. We have objectives in this regard. The Dutch companies are cooperating in this. We are also using the means of development cooperation. But we cannot work mainly in countries and expect governments themselves to take a large number of small farmers off their land and tell them that they no longer have a job, because there is a sustainability agenda. This will ultimately lead to evasive behaviour. Then we will not meet the long-term sustainability objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u18	Of course, we have known for many years how animal and environmental harmful the use of palm oil in our foods is. I agree with GroenLinks' question. Despite all good intentions, Greenpeace presented a report stating that half of the companies do not want or can indicate where they get their palm oil. Transparency is therefore still a long way to go. If people stand in the supermarket, they still cannot assume that buying certain products will not contribute to deforestation and the exploitation of farmers around the world. There's got to be another way. Does the Minister agree with me that at least the companies in the Netherlands should be able to guarantee that they only use responsibly extracted raw materials? This is particularly true of palm oil, if we now see that imports are increasing again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u19	Thank you. That is indeed desirable. I believe that most of the companies today, because of the consumer's reaction and because of the public debate, today but also in the newspaper, will increasingly want to indicate where the palm oil comes from. I also think that effective cooperation with the institute, which will give this quality mark, is also very important. Does everything always go according to plan? No, but great progress has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr. Chairman. I would like to know whether the Minister at least acknowledges that the cheap raw material palm oil has taken a huge flight as an ingredient in food, where it is very often not necessary. Does it recognise that consumers today face the fact that half of the products contain palm oil in the supermarket and that it is quite difficult to live up to your ideals and completely avoid it as manufacturers, because it is so cheap, that it is put into everything?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u21	Yes, but I am, frankly, unable to indicate whether there is an alternative that would allow you to produce the same product. This requires knowledge from product to product. I agree with Mrs Ouwehand that consumers should have more information. I would also like to refer to Mr Alkaya's comment on this. We also had an interesting discussion about this in the last AO on foreign trade. There was a question from Mr Amhaouch to discuss, in a subsequent discussion, the rush on labels, both the costs involved for smaller companies and importers and the confusion that this may cause for consumers. It would be good if there were a streamlining, a clarification of what label stands for. That would be easier for all the companies that want to participate in it. Then the consumer will also have more clarity. Then the consumer can say: I choose product A or product B. But I am neither able to give a business value assessment from product to product whether or not it is possible to extract palm oil ingredients. Then I'm really gonna sit on the producer's chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u22	Finally, Mr President. This is such a big social problem. I object to the cabinet pointing to the role of consumers. Believe me, I'm a highly motivated citizen and I'm trying to live palm oil-free. This is very difficult, while I am very motivated to read all those labels. This also applies to other people who do not want to contribute to climate change. Those people feel put in the cold by a government that doesn't even want to do its best to reduce the import of that palm oil at least slightly. If consumers have to do their best, so should the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u23	Madam President. There's been a question. The debate is shifting. That's good. But first we are talking about a ban, then we are talking about an explanation, then we are talking about a consumer, and now we are talking about the government that has to decide for producers whether or not palm oil is rightly used. Then the debate shifts. I think I recognise very well that if you want to live palm oil-free, what I appreciate is very difficult that there is not enough alternative offer yet to make that choice and to ensure, through a market mechanism, that palm oil has a shifting and reducing effect on the market. I recognize that in this way, I believe from Mrs Ouwehand. I'm following her on Twitter, too. So I see the stakes behind that. At the same time, this is not the time to start such a conversation. We committed to the sustainability agenda. We have agreements on this, both nationally and internationally. And we also have an expectation to manage regarding the Dutch side of the story. There is now 90% bet on preserved palm oil. Those were the appointments. That is still the agreement at 2020 and also through the Amsterdam Declaration. Should there be a shift? I think that we should first have a good discussion about this in another context, with a good assessment of what that would mean and whether that will actually make a difference. Individual choices at this stage remain, as far as I am concerned, truly individual choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u24	I sincerely wonder what an Indonesian farmer or rainforest in Indonesia will do if we do what the Party for Animals wants, namely no longer eat cookies with palm oil in the Netherlands and no longer consume meat. In my opinion, the Dutch industry is fully committed to sustainable palm oil. The CDA has just rightly said that. The VVD agrees. It is precisely the imposition of import duties from palm oil to the Netherlands that may be counterproductive to this sustainability. Can the Minister say something about the possibility of keeping the import charges for sustainable palm oil low and allowing unsustainable palm oil to be slightly higher? Could we then perhaps stimulate the desired development?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u25	These kinds of conversations have indeed been made. This continues to cause concern and confusion in the context of the sustainability agreements with countries such as Malaysia and Indonesia, because they say that we have made these agreements; do not force us to go any faster than is already provided for in the agreements. Then there's the risk of running away from the other side. That is not desirable either, because of course we work together. At the same time, we can look at it, perhaps that is also what Mrs Becker is referring to: whether we can give a more for more, as there is more preserved palm oil and there is an acceleration. I have been committed to this in my talks in Malaysia and Indonesia. We have the sustainability agreements. Can we speed up? What is expected of all parties? Let's start rewarding that in a positive way. I am prepared to look at that, because that is what I have already mentioned and agreed with those countries. But it takes a little time and a little study.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-20-tweedekamer-3.u27	Thank you.
