ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now turn to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA for his question to the Foreign Minister, whom I would also like to welcome, about the International Criminal Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The International Criminal Court is there for the prosecution and trial of the worst international crimes: genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. It is located in The Hague, the city of international law. It is very regrettable that the United States, which still favours the spread of democracy and human rights worldwide, so they say at least that they do not want to be a party to this and do not want to cooperate with it. Anyway, that's the right of every sovereign country, you might say. There are 123 countries in the world that do cooperate, but the United States does not want that. That's why I'm standing here when the American government says it's trying to undermine the criminal court. National Security Advisor John Bolton did that on Monday. He launched a frontal attack on the grounds of the court's plans to investigate possible war crimes by U.S. military forces in Afghanistan and Israel in occupied Palestinian territory. I quote Mr Bolton: "We will let the ICC die quietly. In virtually all respects, the ICC is already dead to us anyway. And the United States will use all the necessary means to protect our citizens and those of our allies from unjustified persecution by this unlawful court." Mr. Chairman. The US is asking the Netherlands a lot when it comes to international peace. The Netherlands is also always willing to consider this and cooperate in international peace. However, in what is very important for the Netherlands, namely international justice, the United States does not give at home. In fact, they're gonna fight it, as they say. My questions to the Minister are as follows. What does the Minister think of the statements of the National Security Advisor? Is this also known as the official position of the United States? Does the President see a special role for the Netherlands? Do you agree that, as guardian of international law, we also have a duty to appeal to other countries, including the United States, to their obligations in this regard? And is the President prepared to send a signal when the Netherlands is back at the UN Security Council next week, together with the United States, where the United States wants to undermine the criminal court, while it is a very important matter for the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-3.u3	And you're asking the minister, not the chairman, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-3.u4	Did I say "president"? No, I'll ask the minister through the chairman. That was the aim, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-3.u5	Okay. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-3.u6	But if you have an opinion on it, I am certainly prepared to listen to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Helvert rightly states that the International Criminal Court is an incredibly important institution and that the Netherlands is proud to be its host country, because the Netherlands is incredibly in favour of an international legal order in which as many countries participate as possible. Fortunately, as Mr Van Helvert also noted, many countries are taking part in the International Criminal Court. Unfortunately, the United States and a number of other countries, including more members of the UN Security Council, are not taking part. The statements made by Mr Bolton were sharp, but at the same time they were in line with what the United States has actually chosen since the establishment of the International Criminal Court, and this is also reflected in the fact that the United States is not taking part in them. Indeed, the Netherlands sees it as its role to promote the importance of the International Criminal Court and thus to actively approach countries that are not yet members of it. So do we. For example, we also offer support to countries that are considering becoming one. We will also be organising a side event at the United Nations General Assembly, which is a meeting in addition to that big global meeting, in which the International Criminal Court gets all the attention it deserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-3.u9	It's nice to hear the Minister say that. He also says that this is actually the line that the United States has been using before. That they were not enthusiastic about the ICC, perhaps also for fear that their own citizens would also be tried, as they themselves say, we knew that. That's true. But I think Mr Bolton is going a lot further. He says that the United States and the Trump administration will consider denying judges and prosecutors of the court access to the US and freezing any funds they may have in the US. They could even be prosecuted in U.S. courts. So what Mr Bolton is saying is really a step further. Can the Minister also discuss this when we are back with the United States next week at the United Nations? Is this really going to be the new line of the US or was it perhaps just the Minister's exciting statements at a meeting of a conservative club?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-3.u10	Previously, the United States has adopted legislation specifically aimed at possible prosecution of United States nationals at the International Criminal Court. So also against that background, these statements are firm, but not entirely new. Indeed, it is the commitment of the Netherlands, together with other countries that fortunately love the criminal court, to send a message to that effect. They are now announcements in a speech of possible measures. When a follow-up is given, the Netherlands will, of course, look with the other countries that support the criminal court to see what the appropriate responses are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you. I think that's very good, too. I would also like to encourage the Minister to do so, for I am truly convinced that, at a time like today, which is also very memorable for the international community and international law, we must appeal to other countries to fulfil their obligations in this respect, even if they are large countries and also in the United States. In that sense, therefore, you will certainly receive the support of the CDA. Furthermore, I could have asked the Minister on another subject, Mr President, but we can request a debate on this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you. The Minister may respond briefly to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr Van Helvert and I agree on the importance of this. We will also continue to appeal to large countries, not only to the United States, but also to China and the Russian Federation, not to the criminal court, to the great importance of participating in the criminal court and not to obstruct the functioning of the criminal court.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you.
