ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-5.u1	I give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg for her questions to the Minister for Medical Care, in the absence of the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport, about the increasing aggression against aid workers in the ggz.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday, we were able to read the shocking results of a Trouw research into the safety of mental health care. As many as 40% of employees in acute psychiatry sometimes have to do with unwanted behaviour by patients. In a single clinic, it's even 80%. The whistleblower in the article indicates that one goes to work with fear and that this cannot even be discussed internally. I hate this. This isn't normal. It's unacceptable that people have to go to work every day with fear. Closed departments would not be sufficiently equipped to handle this violence properly. I have the following questions. Does the Minister recognize this image? Does he share the comments of employees that this would be a side effect of the changes in care, such as phasing out the isolation cell, not sufficiently trained staff and the increase in complex patients with a forensic edge? Is the Minister prepared to engage in discussions with the industry, in particular with a view to carrying out research to identify, among other things, the causes and possible directions for resolution and to consider whether there is a difference in the number of incidents between institutions operating according to the Dolhuys Manifest and those operating in isolation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr President. With Mrs Van den Berg, I believe that working in the public domain should be safe for everyone. This applies to employees in the ggz and also to the ambulance staff. So I have no choice but to make the questions that Mrs Van den Berg is asking mine. I think it is very important that we represent the people who are committed to society. Of course I am shocked by the article that has appeared in Trouw. I've been in touch with Paul Blokhuis for a while. He says: the stories that employers do not always pay sufficient attention to this....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You'd like employees to feel safe to have that conversation with their employer. I can well imagine that keeping up with the incidents of violence, without creating an enormous administrative burden, will help to have that good conversation, not only at institutional level, but also at national level. I have therefore answered Mrs van den Berg's first question, whether I recognize and acknowledge the image. I do. Then the question is whether it is a side effect of the changes in care or whether it has to do with a more complex care. When I read the article in the newspaper, it certainly has something to do with the employees saying that also with the more complex care question that has arisen over the past period. So there is also an affirmative answer to that. Thirdly, the invitation to the State Secretary to engage with the institutions, for example through GGZ Nederland. It's already happening. There is regular contact between GGZ Nederland and the Secretary of State. I understand that the sector itself carries out a biennial survey of workers, with the issue of aggression at work playing an important role. So there's that investigation. The next edition is scheduled for 2019. The Secretary of State told me this afternoon that he would like to have another conversation with GGZ Nederland, for example to take a step in a national registration of incidents of violence, if that is proportionate and does not lead to a huge paper shop. That point is also made in the article in Trouw. So Mrs van den Berg's final question, about the Dolhuy principle, is one that she asks me about. I can't answer that because I don't have that knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-5.u5	It is nice to hear that there is at least good contact and that there will be another survey, but it will only come in 2019. In view of the problems that exist today, I would ask that this survey be brought forward and that the problem of having or not having an isolation cell be included. That's what I'd like to know from the Minister. I would also like to know what the Minister is going to do to ensure that there is aftercare for the staff who are here, because it is also unclear whether they are present.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-5.u6	The advance of the survey does not make much sense in my opinion, because on the basis of the latest edition of the survey the discussion can already be held between the Secretary of State and GGZ Nederland or between GGZ Netherlands and the institutions. So I'm not in favour of moving him forward. Then the point about providing aftercare. I think it is very important that employers ensure a safe working environment for their employees. The same goes for the ggz. Mr Blokhuis is also happy to pick up that point in a discussion with GGZ Nederland. So I can promise you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you. Thank you also to Mrs Van den Berg, and thank you to the Minister for... No, the Minister has to sit down for a while, because there are three questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-5.u8	We can keep registering, conducting surveys and surveys, but these signals have been around for a long time. I'd rather the Minister or the Secretary of State just take action now. For example, Mrs Van den Berg mentioned the isolation cells. The closing of the isolation cells is the trend within the ggz settings, while patients are becoming increasingly complex due to the outpatientisation and the outpatient care that is not yet in order. Does the Minister agree with us that closing solitary cells can also be a cause of aggression in the workplace, and that solitary cells may sometimes be a good remedy...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-5.u9	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-5.u10	... to at least temporarily relieve and keep the workers safe?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-5.u11	The discussion about whether or not to close isolation cells should be conducted between professionals. I do not have enough knowledge of this to say just now with a big gesture: that is the cause of the problem and action must be taken on it. I have tried to emphasise in my replies to Mrs Van den Berg that I think it is important that we have a good discussion between the employer and the employee. I believe that the real conversation should be held there, in a safe context. It should be able to cover everything that has to do with the work. People in the ggz, Mr Blokhuis told me, are not afraid for a little one; they know that every now and then a tap is being handed out. But we shouldn't think that's normal. We will always have to stand up to that. We can say tough words about that here. That's what we should do. One must be able to work safely in the public sector. But the most important contact is really that between the employer and the employee at institution level.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-5.u12	I do not know whether going back to more isolation cells would be a solution, because there are also examples where other methods work. I think every violent incident is just one too many. On that rising line, we really need to do something, for both the employee and the client, because this development is worrying. I would therefore like to know from the Minister or the Secretary of State to what extent the perspective of the client and the family around it can contribute to preventing incidents of violence in the ggz.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-5.u13	Any help is welcome, you might say. On the one hand there is the help from the professional, and from the side of family and the environment could also be offered help. I've been looking into what you could do specifically on the government side. I understand that in the context of secure care, agreements have recently been made between Rijk, health insurance companies and ggz to provide additional capacity for secure care. At the moment, the institutions are looking at what additional capacity they want, both in terms of resources and manpower. That seems to me to be a very concrete step. Another is that there are house rules in institutions. Those house rules used to have the purpose of making it pleasant for the client. I understand that these house rules are being tightened up so that safe working is also made more important. Those are concrete agreements. As you know, that proposal has now been put before your Chamber. These seem to me to be practical examples to ensure that the work can be made safer from the professional point of view. But again, if there are other ways of contributing to this from the client's environment, that would be dear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-5.u14	Finally, Mr De Lange has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-5.u15	I very much agree with the Minister that violence in care should never be normal. Visits to the ggz do mean that you hear a lot of stories from people who have a lot to do with violence and a culture in which, in fact, very few reports are made. The Minister talks about the need for that good conversation to start, but does the fact that so little is reported say anything about the gap between the policy makers and the directors within the ggz and the people who are in the workplace every day in this situation? Should this not be improved very quickly and can the Minister clearly indicate how he and his colleagues are going to make an effort to improve this as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-5.u16	In my reply to Mrs Van den Berg's questions, I said that with regard to that biennial survey, the last edition of which was last year and which is therefore also very useful this year to have the conversation between the Secretary of State and GGZ Netherlands and GGZ Netherlands on the one hand and the institutions on the other, it seems useful to see how you can have that good conversation with the staff. 'Cause it's not gonna work unless there's a report. It doesn't make any sense if the willingness to register is low because that's how it always happened in this institution. I believe that this is a puzzle which must be laid down in those institutions, in which the employer has a very important role to play, which we must also address him. The addition I made is that it might help, in conjunction with Mr Blokhuis, to gain more insight into the incidents at national level through GGZ Nederland if they were to register there on the basis of a request to the institutions. That could be a way of increasing this willingness to report. I say this with caution, because it is not our intention to set up another huge paperwork. It must all be proportionate, but if it is useful to promote good conversation in a practical way, it could be a useful tool.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you. I thank the Minister for his reply and his coming to the Chamber. We have come to the end of Question Time. After the suspension, we will proceed with the votes.
