ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u1	We are moving forward in a smooth fashion with the 30-member debate that is currently on the agenda. That is the thirty-member debate on the message that officials on VWS deleted minutes of a consultation with the alcohol industry. We have eight speakers from the Chamber. The first speaker is the applicant for this debate, Mr Van Gerven of the Socialist Group. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the report that officials in the Ministry of Health have deleted the minutes of a consultation with the alcohol industry. This concerns page 2, the crucial page, of the report of the Directors of Alcohol Consultation of 7 March 2008. The meeting discussed the desirability of Ageviewers as an age control system for the sale of alcohol in supermarkets. Normally, the absence of one such page is of course not a reason for many questions and debates and an investigation by the Audit Service Reich ten years later. But this is an effective age verification system to check that minors do not buy alcohol, something where the alcohol industry, which was widely represented in the Directors' Consultation Alcohol, is not in a position to jump. The Ageviewers system was by far the best solution in the Trimbos Institute's research. The Ministry of VWS asked for that result to be deleted from Trimbos' final report. A very relevant page may provide insight into the possible involvement of the Ministry in possible cartel agreements between supermarket chains is missing. The DOA between these parties took place on a regular basis. It is very striking that the second page of the minutes of that particular consultation has just disappeared. Of all the alcohol transfers that took place between the parties, the very page of the report is untraceable. That can't be a coincidence, I'm asking the Secretary of State. In addition to that one page, all official e-mails about this have somehow disappeared. Coincidence, I ask the Secretary of State. Reminds me of Bitch's receipt. And why does the Secretary of State say in reply to the written consultation that there is no more information about the DOA in 2008 than the Ministry has brought out? How is it that the Argos radio programme has found a number of e-mails about that consultation that has not been made public by the Ministry? Isn't that also true of De Telegraaf's report that documents have been destroyed by ministry officials or by several ministries? Shouldn't these e-mails have been in the archive? Has the Ministry complied with the Archive Act? Why has the Audit Service not conducted an independent investigation? That was the Chamber's request. Why hasn't it been decided? Why are our questions not answered in writing? It is striking that the Heritage Inspectorate is under the responsibility of Mrs Van Engelshoven, the Minister of OCW, while she was involved in that specific consultation as the representative of the alcohol lobby. Can the Heritage Inspectorate carry out an independent investigation? My final question to the Secretary of State is: is he prepared to have the National Criminal Court investigate? The credibility of the ministry and politics is at stake. The bottom stone has to come up. I shall table a motion to that effect if I so wish. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u3	Then Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u4	Thank you, Mr President. For years we have been trying to find out why there is so much secrecy about Ageviewers, a device that can be checked how old someone is who wants to buy drinks. Over and over again, new information is coming to light, making it increasingly likely that officials in the VWS Department deliberately withheld information about possibilities for verification in general, but in particular about the Directors and Consultation Alcohol between VWS and EZ officials and representatives of the alcohol industry and the supermarket industry that took place in March 2008. There are several indications that the issue of Ageviewers was discussed during that meeting. The subject was on the agenda, but there is nothing in the report about it, because the second page is missing. The fact that there has never been a second page, as VWS now claims, seems very unlikely, because why isn't it recorded that the agenda item Ageviewers wasn't discussed, as was the case with another item on the agenda? Why isn't there a question and closure recorded, as was customary. Could it be that there was a second page of the minutes on the agenda item Ageviewers, the question and the closure? Why do all those involved suffer from collective amnesia and cannot remember whether or not it has been discussed. Mr President, that is not all. According to reports from Argos in May, there are still more documents than were submitted through the WOB request, namely an email from February 2008, sent by an official, including the agenda for the consultation in March, to all members of the Directors and Consultation Alcohol. VWS has never reported the existence of this mail, not in response to WOB requests or in response to our Parliamentary questions. In fact, it was said that there would be no mails from 2008. So that doesn't seem right. Now the Secretary of State acknowledges that this e-mail was there after all. Then how come it didn't come up with the WOB request? At worst, there is destruction of pieces. That would be contrary to the WOB. At the very least, there is a poor information system. That would be contrary to the Archive Act. Both aren't pretty. In addition to the missing information on the consultation in March 2008, there are other reasons to believe that the VWS Ministry has actively opposed the introduction of a better age control system, such as influencing Trimbos' report and not forwarding a WOB request to the Dutch Food and War Authority. There's a hint of cover-up on that file. What are the findings of the Secretary of State looking at this file with a fresh look? Is he willing to have the National CID do the investigation? The Minister writes that alcohol sellers should comply with the law and that they should not be allowed to supply alcoholic beverages to a person who has not been found to be 18 years of age. The Ministry focuses mainly on compliance with the law, but nothing else. Do we not all have an interest in ensuring that sellers have a good age control system? Shouldn't the government also play a proactive role in this? We've given the industry plenty of time. Does the Secretary of State therefore wish to re-examine different methods of age control systems, including not only Ageviewers? Mr. Chairman. I hope the Secretary of State has good answers. It seems that there is still a hint of dual interests and mystery. That does not cheer me up in favour of an open and transparent democracy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u5	Thank you. Then Mrs Agema from the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For some time now opposition parties have been trying to figure out why the Ministry doesn't open up Ageviewers; a device that allows you to check at checkouts how old someone is. A newspaper report shows that officials have destroyed crucial minutes of the Directors Consultation Alcohol. If the newspaper report is correct, then there are six VWS officials who have deleted minutes that they should not have deleted under the Archive Act. This shouldn't have happened. However, the page has not been found and its existence cannot be proven. Where have we heard this before? Missing pieces, lost receipts or missing memos in ministries that turn out to exist months later. As far as that goes, we'll see. I have no further questions at this time. For me, this debate should not have taken place now. If the pieces come back to the table, if evidence is provided for their existence and their destruction, we will report back to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u7	Thank you. Mr Veldman of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u8	Mr. Chairman. Public authorities should be transparent and complete in the recording, collection and retention of data. We have drawn up rules for this and, of course, these rules must be complied with. If these rules are properly observed, the human error, apart from the fact that there is a discussion about whether or not there is a Minutes, cannot happen. Then there can be no discussion about whether or not there is a second page of a Directors Consultation Alcohol from 2008. Unfortunately, there is now a discussion. Then it's good to find out. That's what happened. The Department of VWS has done research. The Audit Service then investigated VWS' search for the minutes. Following these findings, the ADR made recommendations for additional searches. These were also executed by VWS. The ADR has examined and reported on the follow-up to the recommendations. The ADR describes in its report that it considers that, on the basis of the wide-ranging searches carried out by VWS, everything possible has been done within reason to find the possible second page. So that second page wasn't found. The Heritage Inspectorate is currently investigating whether and how compliance with the Archive Act has taken place. It is clear that the authorities, directors, civil servants or anyone else have to comply with laws and regulations. The deliberate destruction of reports, correspondence or otherwise recorded information is not appropriate. On the basis of the information available, it is not possible to conclude that a second page has been destroyed. The investigation so far does not provide a second page. If there are people who think that this is wrong and that there is a second page, then I think it is time to provide proof of this. If someone has that conscious second page, get up and make this page public. If that is not the case, it is still important that the public authorities handle information carefully and keep it safe, but then we can put this issue behind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u9	We can all remember the affair of Bitch's receipt. That didn't work out well for the rulers. We do not know what is happening now, but we do know that there is a great deal of fog and uncertainty. Does the VVD group in this debate not agree that this fog needs to be fully clarified and that it is best to invest it with a party which is above all doubt and which is not involved in any way in this dossier, namely the Rijksrecherche?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u10	I have just heard Mr Van Gerven and Mrs Voortman put a number of questions to the Secretary of State. It seems fair to me that we should just give the Secretary of State the opportunity to answer those questions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u11	But the VVD has followed all this and he also sees that there is still a lot of fog and that there are many uncertainties. It's actually very likely that that page 2 had to have been there, but that somehow it was destroyed or disappeared or is still somewhere in a computer device; who knows? Isn't it important to be absolutely clear about that? Is it not also in the interests of the reliability and credibility of the Ministry and of politics that we simply get to the bottom of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u12	Mr Van Gerven makes an assumption, as a number of other people do. That's why I just made a call. If there are people who don't just want to leave it at an assumption but who say that second page exists, get up and make that page public, because then we know if there is one. I haven't seen it yet. I share the questions you have. I think the Secretary of State is about to answer that. If that second page is not there, then I think it is also important to put the issue behind us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u13	Rounding up. Oh, no, Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u14	As far as I am concerned, there are two elements in this debate. One is the matter of the missing page and the other is the issue of age control systems. There are several ways in which you can check that the alcohol age is well maintained, but for the time being I have the feeling that it is still too often that children can buy alcohol. So my question is: would Mr Veldman be prepared to consider whether we should investigate the different research methods and the different age control systems that exist? The previous research is already from a few years ago, so perhaps there are now new insights.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u15	I understand Mrs Voortman's question very well. I should actually like to refer to the answer given by the Secretary of State to the VAO for prevention: if that is a good method, let it be part of the tables that are currently working on a national prevention agreement. If they come to the conclusion that this is a better system for that and that and that reason and if it is also waterproof in terms of privacy and a number of other things that you have to take with you, then I am happy to look forward to that outcome. But it is a step too early for me to order those tables at the front now: this is the method that has to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u16	Maybe I haven't been entirely clear. As far as I am concerned, we should not say: this is the method. But I would be happy if at least the question were whether the method we are using now is the best or whether there are perhaps other methods. Would Mr Veldman be open to doing so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u17	Not as a room. The Secretary of State has started a process of reaching a national prevention agreement. He set up a smoking table and an alcohol table for that. Smoking is chaired by the former colleague in this Chamber, Mrs Sap. Let us give this table under its Presidency the room to see what good methods are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u18	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u19	If this is a good method, it'll come from those tables.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u20	Mrs. Diertens of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u21	Mr. Chairman. D66 considers a transparent, open government to be of great importance. A government must be able to justify itself at all times. To be able to do that, the archives need to be in order. We are talking today about a case in which the quality of archiving is questionable, to say the least. That's serious. And are we talking about not being completely in order of the archives because of mistakes or are they mistakes? Or have things been deliberately withheld? My group has a number of questions about this. The first thing that stands out is that the Secretary of State indicates that he has disclosed all relevant information. However, Argos is in possession of mails, one of which is also on the website which clearly refers to the DOA consultation of 7 March 2008 and which has not been made public by the State Secretary. How can Argos have these documents when VWS couldn't find them in two rounds of research itself? I'd like a response. And what does this mean for ongoing and future WOB requests? I find it worrying when documents that are there aren't found. What is the Secretary of State doing to ensure that future WOB requests can be handled carefully and completely? What does he think should improve or change in the culture of the ministry? What is the knowledge of handling WOB requests? How will the Secretary of State effect these changes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u22	Thank you. Then Mrs. Chicken from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me start by saying that the government must be transparent, that the information must be in order and that it must be handled carefully. For the CDA, it is primarily the responsibility of the sellers of alcohol and tobacco to check the age of the customers. It is not for the government to prescribe which commercial product is used by sellers of alcohol to effectively control the age of customers. In general, it is good for the sector itself to agree a code of conduct on what is an effective means of control. However, the government must maintain strict compliance when compliance is insufficient. According to VWS, compliance with the age limit would show an upward trend. Can the Secretary of State state state what he's basing this on? And what is the role of his policies in the coming years to improve compliance? The Secretary of State writes in the written replies that 71% of the municipalities in the Netherlands use the three strikes out principle. How does the rest of the municipalities maintain? How often do the municipalities that use this principle actually control that age control? I also have a number of questions about the minutes of the Directors Consultation Alcohol. The Secretary of State states that the Heritage Inspectorate is still investigating the archiving of the DOA reports and compliance with the Archive Act in this regard. What is the state of this investigation? I also refer to Argos' broadcast of 14 April, which stated that a WOB request for disclosure of relevant documents was not forwarded to NVWA until one day after the appeal judgment. Is that right? And what information has finally emerged from the NVWA? So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u24	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u25	I have the following question to Mrs Diertens of D66, which I have also asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u26	But I'm Mrs. Kuik from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u27	It's a little fast for you, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u28	Oh, sorry, Mrs. Kuik. I've got to switch. I have the same question for you that I also asked the spokesperson of the VVD, Mr Veldman. Wouldn't it be a good idea for the National Police to put an end to all the questions that are still alive and all the fog about the involvement of all kinds of people, to get total clarity? In this way, the credibility and reliability of the Ministry and the political will could be better safeguarded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u29	The question is, of course, whether that makes sense. I would like to put that question to the Secretary of State. Does it make any sense to do another investigation? To what extent does the investigation of the Heritage Inspectorate still play a role in this? I'd like to pass on that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u30	I understand, of course, that the Secretary of State is going to answer, but I have also indicated that the Heritage Inspectorate is part of the whole discussion. Several ministries are involved. Wouldn't it be better, because there is the possibility of an official crime, that the National Criminal Court is also coming into the picture to clarify that? I also mentioned the position of the Minister of OCW, so that is not easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u31	I have no further reason to doubt the commitment of the Heritage Inspectorate and its independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u32	The Heritage Inspectorate is, of course, not independent. I agree that she can do an investigation well, sure, but there can of course be a sign of conflict of interest because she is part of a ministry or under the responsibility of a ministry that is part of this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u33	Yes, I repeat my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u34	I'd rather not. Mrs. Voortman, finishing up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u35	What is also at stake is the appearance of conflict of interest. In order to prevent it, shouldn't you say: we're asking for this investigation to be carried out by someone else?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u36	It doesn't matter if that still makes sense. That's why I'm happy to pass that question on to the Secretary of State. We've had a lot of tests. I don't think doing research on research that results in the same thing makes any sense. Then we'd better put our energy into real alcohol prevention. That is why I ask the Secretary of State if that makes any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u37	Mrs. Kuik is also a Member of Parliament. I assume she also thinks that it should be clear how a decision was reached. If we know that this is the subject of discussion and foggy over and over again, then that is not a good thing either. For then the question may arise as to why it has reached a certain position. And it is precisely this appearance that we really need to combat. Suppose the Heritage Inspectorate says, "No, it's okay. It's okay." Then, of course, it may be that this link is being re-examined and that research is being questioned. Hence my question as to whether it is better to have someone else carry it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u38	The investigation of the Heritage Inspectorate hasn't arrived yet. I think it's important to have that, too. Then I can make my judgement on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u39	The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u40	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the previous speakers for summing up and the facts. I would like to join with all the critical questions that have been asked. Mr. Chairman. By whom is the Netherlands governed? Is it naive to think that we have an independent cabinet with independent directors and a well-informed First and also Second Chamber, which control and adjust? Apparently so. Apparently, rulers are on the leash of an all-powerful sector that is actually in control. Often it seems so, but the evidence doesn't come on the table. But in this case, with the missing alcohol minutes, it's different. The whole process of maintaining the age limit for alcohol also makes a lot of other things clear. For example, in the VPRO-Argos broadcast of 14 April last year, we were told that the sector is making an unsolicited effort to answer Parliamentary questions and that the director then asks the policy officer if the vision of the sector has come back enough in the actual response. We hear in the report that the Ministry communicates to the Trimbos Institute how it wishes to change the conclusions of an independent research report and that this independent research institute still follows these indications. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is a welfare state for multinationals. Businesses contribute to legislation outside the scope of this Chamber. We would very much like to believe that it is not, so our government is not controlled by business. But if the government loses exactly that one page requested or if there are no notes on the agenda of the meeting, if an entire department deletes exactly that one mail, if the government sends a relevant request exactly the day after the judge's ruling, and if the government does not do exactly what the MPs ask of it to perform their controlling function, then it will be very difficult to continue believing in it. Can the Secretary of State explain to us what the state-law logic is for involving a sector in so many parts of his work? Why should we expect the alcohol sector to cooperate in preventing alcohol sales to minors? Because that's cutting into your own flesh. This Secretary of State may remember our previous contribution. We also see the phenomenon in children's marketing and the product composition agreements for food. We do not have to expect the food industry to make sure that we eat and snack less. The agreements with the sector therefore have exactly no impact on reducing the increase in obesity and obesity. We should not expect the agricultural sector to abolish the bio-industry and put animal welfare at the top of the list, and we should not expect the oil industry to solve the climate problem. And yet we see over and over again that the sector is allowed to say it. The Chamber has to go on a mad scavenger hunt and the public has to deal with the consequences. Finally, Mr President. I would like to hear why the Secretary of State thinks that is logical and desirable and what he, the ministry or the cabinet gets back for that. Who is the Secretary of State for: for the citizens or for the sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u41	Thank you. Can the Secretary of State answer? He's asking for a 15-minute suspension; go ahead. I'm suspending until 5:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u42	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u43	Mr President, thank you. In general, I am going to tell you about the questions that have been asked and, of course, I am also going to answer the various questions that have been asked. Let me start with the following. The Telegraaf article that triggers this debate follows from a WOB request to an ADR study you requested. In this study, the Audit Service Rijk investigated the search process concerning the report Directors Consultation Alcohol. In this debate, we will discuss this further. Mr Van Gerven went straight into it by saying: there are e-mails missing; is that a coincidence? I would like to say right at the start, because this is not the first debate on this issue, and I would like to throw away the suggestion very far from me that VWS will make coordinated mails disappear. I do not have any indication of this, and that is not what the ADR found in the study either. The SP Group asked if the Archive Act was broken, and others also asked questions in relation to the Archive Act. There is no indication that archived pieces have been removed. It doesn't seem to be about the original version, it seems to be about copies. When the relevant documents are not found on a personal drive, this does not mean that they have been deleted. The suggestion is perhaps raised that six officials have all deleted all kinds of e-mails. In reply to question one of the VVD groups in the written round, it is also very clearly stated: only if we can establish with certainty that information has been stored on a personal disk can we determine whether it has been deleted. In this case, VWS and the ADR have not been able to establish this. So I understand that that thought has caught up, but something must have been on something, if it's to be removed. That hasn't been established. It is very simple: officials receive an e-mail with a report and if they haven't saved it, they can't have deleted it either. It's that easy. Mr. Chairman. Several spokesmen asked Mr Van Gerven how Argos has mails that have not been made public. My first response to that question would be: you should ask Argos, because they have it at their disposal. However, I can add that VWS has provided as much information as it can find on those searches, which have been carried out under the auspices of the ADR, and has honoured the WOB request as accurately as possible. The relevant e-mail, which is now being specifically discussed in this debate, is a so-called "accompanying e-mail" for an agenda request. Such e-mails are not stored by default. Nor does the Archive Act and the WOB oblige to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u44	When the Secretary of State says in reply to our Chamber that there are no further e-mails from 2008 in relation to that DOA consultation, and then another e-mail from 2008 comes up again, isn't that right? So the Secretary of State has given an answer which at least is not correct. That could be conscious. That can also be unconscious. There may be all kinds of explanations for it, but the fact is that it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u45	Well, I tried to indicate in my answer that in this particular case, when we talk about the same email, it is about an accompanying mail at the agenda of that DOA meeting. Apparently it didn't come up in the search trips, but the Archive Act doesn't oblige you to keep such documents. He does exist, so he did come up on another route. But through the searches that have taken place under the guidance of the ADR, he has not come to the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u46	This e-mail came up because Argos had it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u47	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u48	On the basis of the WOB, this e-mail should also have been made public. Then my question is as follows. The Secretary of State says: no, there are no emails from 2008. Then this e-mail comes up anyway. Then I wonder: how sure can we be that the DAO report is really complete? Or maybe there's a page missing there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u49	The e-mail referred to by Mrs Voortman specifically states that "you will receive the agenda for that meeting". That's about the meeting, but there's nothing else in it. Sec's e-mail has to do with the meeting, but apparently it didn't come up in the search. If that answer is unsatisfactory and we still have to do some more work on it, I would like to come back to it in the second term. But the more questions you ask me about them, the more you ask me about them. The fact is that the mail did not come up and that it was marginal in the light of the event. It is an accompanying e-mail at the meeting: you will receive the documents attached. I can't tell you much more about it right now. Again, how Argos got it is a question that you might want to ask Argos. Mr. Chairman. Behind the article in De Telegraaf is the search for a possible second page of minutes of a director's meeting that took place on 7 March 2008, more than ten years ago. Two and a half years ago it came to light that there might be a second page of the minutes of this consultation. Since then, everything we can come up with to clarify whether there has been a second page and to find this supposed page has been used as much as possible. I would like to emphasise, in response to questions from Mrs Kuik and others, that I attach great importance to the government's careful handling of information and transparency about its working methods. This is increasingly being asked of us. That's fine, although there's a limit to that, too. I have every sympathy for questions that live, because I had those questions myself when I took over this portfolio. But as long as that possible page is not found, we will never be able to rule out that page. Everyone here wants to know exactly what this issue is about, including myself. In front of you is a ruler who also wants to know, as well as you. In that context, I would like to comment on the WOB requests. Several WOB requests have been made for the available information in this file. Careful application of the WOB serves the public interest of good and democratic governance. When assessing a WOB request, the starting point is always "public, unless'. That is no different from these requests. All available information has been assessed in the light of the WOB and provided where possible. Mr. Chairman. The Audit Service Rijk has conducted research to provide insight into how the Ministry of VWS conducted the search for the possible second page of the DOA of 7 March. Based on the findings of the first phase of the ADR study, additional searches were carried out by VWS in the presence of the ADR. When searching archives and network disks, the minutes of the relevant DOA consultation were found, all with one page. The result of the ADR study was that I quote "on the basis of the wide-ranging searches carried out by VWS within reasonableness everything possible has been done to find the possible second page." Mr. Chairman. In addition, the Erfgoedinspectie has started. She did this on her own initiative and not on behalf of VWS; that's not how it works. At the moment, that investigation is still ongoing. That research focuses specifically on how in 2008 the way of archiving was at VWS. This is therefore specifically aimed at 2008. In the context of expectations management, I note that the Heritage Inspection is not looking for the specific document or an alleged second page. I say this in the context of expectations management, because perhaps some spokesmen think that the Heritage Inspectorate is coming with it, like: here he is! In my opinion, it is an illusion to think that; I would like to say this very emphatically. It is research into the way of archiving in 2008. In reply to the question when the investigation will come and be made public, I can say that this is very soon. That study will be published within a few weeks. Mr. Chairman. I have been convinced in recent months, ever since I looked into the dossier, that everything we and independent external parties could think of to find the second page has been done. At the same time, I am well aware that this has not led to an outcome that is really satisfactory, because we still have no final clarity on the alleged second page. As far as I am concerned, Mr Veldman has spoken very well. I would like to say with him that if, as a result of the new publications and the debate, there is someone who can provide that clarity, who can give us an answer on whether or not there is a second page, then I invite him to do so. I believe that my predecessor, Mr Van Rijn, has done the same. It's ten years after that. If anyone has it, please show me, because I don't want to hide anything. If anyone can show that second page is there, be my guest. Mr. Chairman. Among other things, in connection with this case, efforts have been made to improve digital archiving and the awareness of employees at the ministry of VWS. Questions have been asked about this too. Mrs Diertens said, among other things, something about the trial at the VWS ministry and how open one is there. I believe that there is a healthy culture there at the moment, that WOB requests are being handled very carefully, and that we are doing everything we can to ensure that they are as complete as possible. As a ruler, as well as my colleagues, I have no agenda to withhold things. If things are withheld, then indeed the principle is "public, unless." And if there is "unless," then there are mainly objections that we agree on. That does not mean that no mistakes are made. That is what I am saying with Mr Veldman. Where people are working, mistakes are made. Hopefully they will be restored in a rule of law as much as possible. It's not my agenda to make mistakes and let it slide.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u50	There is a question from Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u51	I would like to come back to the question "Is he here or is he not there?" I'm referring to page 2 of that report. The Secretary of State says he has full confidence in the Ministry. I would like to remind the Secretary of State that on 31 October 2015 the Ministry was attacked because internal mails between VWS and the municipality of Utrecht were erased about decoys. Hence also our healthy suspicions about this matter, let me just put it to you at that point. At least I'm not convinced of that. Now to the specific question. We are looking at the agenda for that meeting of 7 March 2008. Point 7 of that paragraph states "selling column with age verification at a distance'. That's the Ageviewers point. The report that came up later states that item 6 has been moved to another meeting. That's a note. Now we cannot find anything in that one-page report on point 7. Doesn't that raise the question of whether it would actually have made sense if there had been a page 2, which would have included the conclusions of paragraph 7?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u52	Starting with Mr Van Gerven's first question on Trimbos and its communication, I believe that my predecessor, Mr Van Rijn, discussed this extensively in 2016. Turning to the second question, I think it makes sense for everyone to think that, if you have an agenda with eight points, and there is a report from one page that runs to point 5, that raises the question of where the rest is. Everyone here has that question. The fact is that we went looking for an alleged page 2 and didn't find anything. I can't say it often enough: I don't have any agendas to hide that page. I believe that in the more than 100 answers we have given in the recent exchange of written questions and in debates before that, we have also indicated that we do not have that agenda and that we want to open it up. The Audit Service Rijk has looked very critically and has run disks that were just searching for days in our systems. We did everything we could to find that page. The question is: is it logical that there should be? It seems the answer is yes, but no one can find him. I agree with Mr Veldman. If you've pierced all the systems and really can't find them, then you have to draw the conclusion: he's not here; we're going to move on and we're going to talk about an alcohol policy. Or I ask people here or elsewhere in the Netherlands: if you have that page 2, please show me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u53	Of course, it could have been destroyed. Then you'd have to ask all those involved what happened at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u54	That's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u55	Yes, it did, but the question is whether that has happened adequately. You have answered 110 questions, and I say that through the chairman to the Secretary of State, but the fog has not risen, because later Argos came up with new mails and new cases. Let me just take the Audit Service Rijk: the Chamber has asked for an independent examination of the audit service. That didn't happen. The research has been done by the ministries themselves and the audit service has been watching. That was not in line with the promise made to the Chamber. Doesn't that justify extra independent research, apart from the ministries? Again, I remind you of that receipt from Bitches. There wasn't; they couldn't find that. For years they couldn't find it and suddenly it was there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u56	Yes, but that's why I ask that question without concern: if anyone has this or if anyone can find it, please help. Indeed, the Audit Service did not look for it itself, but it was literally wrong when the computers were running and watched the search. This was designed by the Ministry of VWS itself, together with the ADR. That is the approach of the ADR; it is not going to do so itself, but it is literally wrong. That's how it happened, physically. Perhaps that is also a bridge to the question of whether further research should be carried out alongside the research that the Heritage Inspectorate will produce in the near future. Both spokesmen who are now at the interrupt microphone have asked whether an independent investigation should not be carried out by the Rijksrecherche. I understand that question, but my reaction would be that a great deal of effort has been made by messing with all the disks relevant to the ministry, looking at all the paper archives and questioning people. That research has been so broad that it has thus been carried out under the auspices of the independent ADR that the logical question arises as to what such an investigation by the Rijksrecherche would add. I ask that question in all honesty. I'd like to add that I know who's in charge here. If the House says in a majority that this must be done, then that must be done. I'd say, after all the work that's been done, I think it's really overdone to find this one alleged page.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u57	Mrs. Voortman. Well, Mr Van Gerven has just finished, briefly and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u58	Yeah, rounding it up. That investigation by the National Criminal Court could put an end to all appearances, including the appearance of conflicts of interest, and also to the fact that criminal offences may have been committed. Does the Secretary of State not agree with me that this would give more clarity? If they don't find anything, it's done. Wouldn't it be good for the credibility of politics and the ministry to do so anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u59	As I said in my previous reply, everything has been done as far as I am concerned, also under the auspices of the ADR, and I do not see the added value of an independent investigation by the Rijksrecherche. But again, if the majority of the Chamber thinks that this has added value and that this has to be done, then I know who is in charge. That might be true, but as far as I'm concerned, there's no need.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u60	At least that is very clear from the Secretary of State. So it is indeed up to the Chamber to decide what it thinks of this. The reason why we think this would be a good idea is also that you're still haggling about that ADR investigation. In the log report underneath that investigation, the person who prepared that log report literally says: "None of the employees kept the mail from 2008. This has been removed by all." If that were the case, it would be a criminal offence; it would be a violation of the law. That's when the National CID comes in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u61	I've just answered that question. That is the answer to question 1 in the written exchange of views in April. It states that neither the ADR nor VWS have found that actual disposal has taken place. You can only remove something that's been standing somewhere, that's been somewhere. The latter has not been established. That's what I'm trying to make very insightful. Imagine that there are emails coming in to the participants of the consultation with that report and that they don't save it; so it's not on their hard drive and therefore it's not part of their personal drive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u62	But I assume that the ADR did not have this report produced by someone who does not know it, but by someone who really has very specific knowledge of it. He doesn't say, "I didn't find it." He says they've been removed. That's what I'm working on. Then I find it very strange that VWS and ADR jointly decide that there is no evidence of disposal if the expert says that there is disposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u63	In the answer to question 1, to which I have referred several times, I have just indicated how to'remove' it. That word was used by someone at the time. That's in a certain context. I've indicated how that should be read. Mr. Chairman. Questions have been asked about dealing with the alcohol industry. Do you have to sleep with the devil? I don't know how to say that. But do you have to bring it in during your negotiations, for example in the context of the prevention agreement? I would like to distance myself from the suggestion that VWS is governed by the alcohol industry or any other industry. I want what all the spokesmen here want: a transparent government that clearly identifies the boundaries and talks with relevant parties in our country to achieve goals with each other. As far as I am concerned, this includes the food industry. I want to have that conversation. I also want to be transparent about this. As far as I am concerned, there are no hidden agendas or overrule by the alcohol industry. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kuik has asked a question about enforcement by municipalities. There are indeed municipalities that are quite strict in that: three strikes out. Other municipalities are less so. I think that is primarily a matter for local democracy. Have the municipal councils check how their municipalities are maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u64	Let me go back to the influence of the alcohol industry and other sectors. I heard the Secretary of State say that's really not the case. I must say that I know the Secretary of State as someone who really is of good will and who, especially in the prevention agreement, shows that he has a heart for the matter. At the same time, however, I am surprised at the influence of this sector in the meetings and also now. With all due respect, it looks like the Secretary of State is on the industry's leash. Furthermore, Argos's research may show that the Secretary of State also wishes to say something about this, that the sector contributes to the answer of Parliamentary questions and that the Ministry changes research results from an independent research institute, and that those amendments were also followed up. Does the Secretary of State want to answer the question as to why it is so valuable to have the sector at the table and have so much influence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u65	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen specifically asked whether the sector included in the answer to parliamentary questions. I really do not know that this is happening. I can imagine that the question of whether there are factual inaccuracies will be examined in the context of the answer to Parliament's questions in the sector. But it seems very strange to me that a sector would dictate. Let us agree that, if my answer to this point is incomplete, I will inform the Chamber in writing. The other point in your question relates to the Trimbo report. This has been discussed in detail and has been discussed in detail in the written reply in April. The Trimbos Institute itself has also explicitly stated that it has not put pressure on itself and that it has not been affected in delivering the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u66	But that's really weird. The Argos broadcast of 14 April last said quite clearly: we have a mail and it says literally that this and that need to be changed in the investigation. For example: now slide that one conclusion up and remove that these Ageviewers are the only means of achieving good results. Can't the Secretary of State still respond to that? In Argos' research it was mentioned and it was wobbed. How is it possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u67	I repeat that Trimbos explicitly stated that it was not affected by the intervention of VWS. We have written to the Chamber how we see this and how we would do it now. Maybe that would be more careful. I don't know, but I think it is: more careful in communication. The fact is that Trimbos hasn't declared to be affected. The efforts of the employees of VWS in that intervention were aimed at ensuring that Trimbos' report, which was already in draft form, was correct to the research questions asked. That was the intervention. It wasn't like: rewrite things or leave things out. That was absolutely not the intention of that intervention. We can continue to argue now, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u68	One last time, though. The e-mail literally said what should be changed in the conclusions of the investigation report. They're literally taken over, too. How is that not an influence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u69	Then I repeat that this intervention from VWS was aimed at making the outcome of that investigation more consistent with the mission. It wasn't like: rearrange yourself or write a completely different report. But like that report in draft, it didn't answer the question that was asked. Nothing's been written all over again, except there's some shuffling in the conclusions. As I understand it, it is the third time I have said that Trimbos has not felt that undue pressure has been exerted from VWS to adapt the important conclusions of the investigation. That's exactly what they explained. Mr. Chairman. I think I'm with the last question. That is the question Mrs Kuik asked about the fact that there would be an increasing trend in compliance with shops and perhaps also in the catering industry. Honesty commands us to say that the impression exists. CBL - that is the food industry itself - has recently published a study showing that the compliance rate is now on average 70%. That's another increase over the last investigation, but that's CBL investigation. If the Chamber says that it would like to launch an investigation of VWS to check again where the compliance rate is now, then I am willing to do so, because our latest study dates back to 2016. I myself visited a supermarket in Utrecht two weeks ago at the kick-off of the campaign NIX without ID, a chain that is now at a compliance level of over 90%. So it's moving in the right direction. This trend is evident. But if the Chamber asks if I want to investigate it again, I am, of course, prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u70	That's a very good idea. I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u71	Good. I think I want to leave it at that in my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u72	That's great. So much for the first term. Is there a need for a second term? At least with Mr Van Gerven. I call Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u73	Mr. Chairman. First of all, it's the motion on the National CID. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is still no clarity as to what exactly happened with page 2 of the Directors' Consultation on Alcohol Report of 7 March 2008;]] [[Whereas, in the interests of the credibility of the Ministry and of politics, it is necessary to take the lead;]] [[Whereas there may be criminal offences;]] [[points out that it is desirable for the National Criminal Court to carry out an investigation;]] [[Asks the government to ask the National Criminal Court to conduct this investigation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27565-168]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u74	Well, let's get back to Trimbos' investigation. The concept of the Trimbo report's conclusions states that only Ageviewers appear to lead to a high level of compliance: 96%. In the final investigation, it just disappeared. Of course, Trimbos isn't gonna say it's been inaudible. They'd be kind of crazy, 'cause they'd throw their scientific name at them. But if you hear that 96% and look at the actual figures of compliance now and of 2016. The official figures that are respected at most one third. We must work, as we see it, on systems that effectively lead to age-control in the sale of alcohol and tobacco.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u75	Thank you. Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages to young people under the age of 18 is an effective means of preventing drinking among young people and children;]] [[Considering that the latest study on age control systems from 2014 dates back to 2014 and that there may now be more and better ways to control age;]] [[Whereas society benefits from the use by companies of good age verification systems to prevent them from selling alcohol to young people;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up an inventory of available age control systems so that the drinking prevention table can involve this in their discussions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27565-169]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u77	The Secretary of State and I agree on one thing, and that is that this issue will continue to get through, even after the investigation of the Heritage Inspectorate. I just want him to be able to finish this for once, otherwise this will keep him and us busy. In my view, this can be done with an investigation by the National Criminal Court, on which Mr Van Gerven has tabled a motion. We also believe that we should focus on alcohol prevention, hence the motion to look at other age verification systems as well. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u78	Thank you. Mrs Agema, Mr Veldman, Mrs Diertens, Mrs Kuik and Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen waive a second term, so that was the second term of the Chamber. I'll suspend for a minute so the Secretary of State can look at the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u79	We've got two motions, so we can do that pretty quickly. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u80	Mr. Chairman. In my second term, let me begin by stressing that we are each other's allies in the fight against excessive alcohol consumption and that we are looking for the best way to give it hands and feet. Maybe the best way to follow up is to look forward and not keep looking back. In that light, I would like to assess that motion on the National Police. I said the following in the first term. As far as I am concerned, so much effort has already been put into finding an alleged second page that we should stop doing so and put an end to it. Then I ask the parties who give me this reassurance to give me back that peace of mind and simply to say that we are going to look forward, instead of doing another study on it. But once again, I have said this in my first term, if the Chamber so wishes, I know who is in charge. The judgment on the motion in part No. 168 is therefore at the Chamber. The motion in part No. 169 is also related to Mr Van Gerven's point, but has been tabled by Mrs Voortman, namely that there are still nice ways to give that age control hands and feet, for example those Ageviewers. That system is, of course, well known. In fact, when I was alderman in Apeldoorn, I opened one, launched it, in Beekbergen. That's what I told you in my first term. In Breda it was scanned whether I had passed the age of 18 years. I have nothing against that system personally. Only, when it is said that we need a broad inventory and that we need to include it in prevention policy, I am afraid that it is precisely by doing so that we can delay the process of the prevention table, where, of course, this is also a point of discussion. At that table alcohol prevention are people who really know where Abraham gets the mustard. There's even a scientist who really knows what systems there are. I expect those systems to be in a good position and get a place there. I also refer to my reaction to the motions tabled during the debate on this subject, the report on general consultation on prevention policy. This will therefore be discussed at the prevention table on alcohol prevention. I expect there to be a proposal, or at least it will be on the agenda, and proposals on optimal age enforcement and compliance in supermarkets and others. By the way, we are always talking about supermarkets and restaurants, or liquor stores, but I think that the biggest profits can be made by sports associations, sports organisations and so on, where compliance is much less. We need to add a lot more to that, for the sake of young people who are much easier to get alcohol there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u81	And what final judgment do you come to?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u82	As far as I'm concerned, it's not because I'm against the content, but because of the trial. I do not want the process of the prevention table to be disturbed by it. And I'm assuming that's where it's going to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u83	So the Secretary of State says that there is an overview of the possibilities for age verification systems and that this is also discussed at the prevention table. That's what the Secretary of State says?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u84	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u85	In that sense, what I'm asking is actually a little double-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u86	Yes. Only if Mrs Voortman asks me if all these systems are on the agenda... I'm not at every table. Nor do I rule out the fact that there is a system somewhere, for example in Bhutan, that we do not know. It's possible. I do know that there is so much knowledge and skill at the table that these systems are well known and that there is an assessment of whether the current approach is sufficient, for example, for the NIX campaign without ID, and that the supermarkets themselves, through the training of cashiers and so on, are achieving a very high level of compliance, or that other additional instruments are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u87	Well, I was just thinking, if all that happens, I can withdraw my motion. But now the Secretary of State says...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u88	Yeah, I brought Bhutan in because I'm not ruling out that there's a system somewhere we don't know. That's actually the only reservation I'm making.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u89	Then the Secretary of State's Ministry could be interested in doing that investigation and then making it available at the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u90	Such an investigation into which systems exist worldwide for age control may have a lot of feet in the earth. I wouldn't burden that table with that. Let me put it this way: I would like to give the VWS representation to that table in order to bring this in and to ask if all the relevant systems are known and whether they are sufficiently co-ordinated and balanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u91	I really like this. I'm holding this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u92	At the request of Mrs Voortman, I propose her motion (27565, No. 169). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u93	To conclude, briefly Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u94	I want the motion in part no. Thank you for saying 'judge chamber', but I would like to wait and see what the Erfgoedinspectie still comes up with. Then the Chamber can make a more complete assessment of the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u95	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-29-tweedekamer-21.u96	I usually say that we vote on the motions on Tuesday, but there are no more motions. I thank the Secretary of State for his presence.
