ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the amendment of the Law on the legal status of judicial officials and some other laws relating to the extension of the possibilities of imposing disciplinary measures on life-appointed judicial officials as well as other measures. This is Chamber No. 33861, this is the second deadline for the debate and it is a legislative amendment that was discussed in February 2015. The first deadline was therefore held a few years ago. Apart from Mr Van Nispen, the spokesmen are all new. I hope you guys remember exactly what it was about. Mr. Van Dam, you're already standing by.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u2	Yes, Mr. Chairman. In preparation I went to the National Archives... In any case, I would like to see the amendments to the Nos. Retreat 11 and 13 on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u3	The Oskam/Van der Steur amendments (Doc. 11 and 13) have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u4	Then I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP. We only have one term, don't you think? Just so you know. So if there are any motions, they need to be filed now. Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you said, three years ago, we kept the first term of this legal process. I feel kind of like a dinosaur in this room because I've been through that term. It is a law which, as I said in the first term, will increase the scope for imposing different sanctions on judges. The current instruments are too limited to address misbehaviour of life-appointed civil servants with disciplinary measures. You can fire a judge or give a warning. There's nothing else in there. That gap is filled with this law. The possibilities are thus extended to impose an appropriate disciplinary measure on a court in the event of unlawful conduct. The SP welcomes that. Because trust in justice is crucial, and in order to maintain that confidence, it must also be possible to take appropriate and appropriate action against judges who, through their misconduct, damage the reputation of the case-law. But I said all this three years ago. In general, there was little discussion about this either. Then why did it take so long? This was mainly because there was a certain Member of Parliament who had tabled far-reaching amendments. At the time, Minister Opstelten was not very pleased with the amendments tabled by Mr Van der Steur. On the basis of these opinions, Mr Van der Steur had to seriously discourage the amendments tabled by Mr Van der Steur. You'll be three years away if you follow that charade like that. During the discussion three years ago, I was quite clear about the views of the SP. We agree with the proposal as presented. The extension of disciplinary measures is necessary and undisputed. In any case, my group does not need to be on top of it. I was going to go through all these amendments again, but I am not doing that now. It's a good thing two of them have moved in. I hope there will be others. I do have other points. I also announced it in the first term. That is why I believe that I can continue to do so now. We must be very careful about the core values of the judiciary: independence, impartiality, professionalism and integrity. Wherever possible, we need to strengthen it. This is also the view of the Court of Justice. The Dutch system now has some vulnerabilities. The Netherlands could make a little more effort to go beyond the internationally set minimum level. The SP thinks we can take a few steps. That is why I have three motions that I would like to put to the Chamber. Firstly, we believe that lawyers, civil servants and politicians should not be able to act as a substitute judge. It is now possible under the law, but they really have a different role in the rule of law. I shall therefore table the next motion. Mr President, I am now making an administrative mistake by not having the right motions with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u6	You can go and get them. It does not go away from your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u8	Happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u9	Then there's the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that any doubt about the integrity of judges should be avoided as far as possible in order to maintain confidence in the case-law;]] [[considers that the role of judge should not be combined with, for example, that of lawyer, civil servant and politician in order to avoid any appearance of bias and conflict of interest;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that a judge's deputy cannot also be a lawyer, official or politician because of their substantially different role in our rule of law;]] [[calls on the Government also to examine whether there are more appeals which it considers incompatible with the function of Judge Alternates),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33861-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u10	Second. Side functions must be recorded. Financial interests of judges and ancillary functions of partners are not. This affects the appearance of bias or conflict of interest. This is also a difficult issue because of privacy. I realize that very well. That's why I'm coming up with the next, cautious motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that any doubt about the integrity of judges should be avoided as far as possible in order to maintain confidence in the case-law;]] [[noting that research has shown that, unlike other countries, the Netherlands does not record the financial interests of judges or the functions of their partners;]] [[Whereas these financial interests and (ancillary) functions should always play a role in the distribution of court cases among judges and ultimately in preventing the appearance of conflicts of interest and bias;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether it is possible to extend the registration of ancillary functions of judges to their financial interests and the (needs) functions of their partners,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33861-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u11	Finally, the allocation of cases: which judge is going to take what case? Transparency in this respect makes the case law less vulnerable to criticism. They have been working on this for a long time. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that examination has shown that it is unclear on the basis of which the administration of the court assigns a particular case to an individual court;]] [[Considers that clarity in this regard will help to avoid as much as possible the appearance of bias and conflict of interest;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Council, to ensure greater transparency in the allocation of cases to individual judges,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33861-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u12	I have a question for Mr Van Nispen on the first motion. If I understand correctly, you're saying that lawyers shouldn't be able to become a substitute judge anymore. How do you look at the added value of lawyers in justice? As a lawyer, you have a lot of experience and you see a lot of cases. You take that experience with you when you "sit" once in a while. For example, if you do that in another arrondissement and pay close attention to not getting caught up in business, is that really against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u13	I think there's something against that. Of course, you can argue that a lawyer has a lot of knowledge, has seen a lot and could have added value. However, I can see that the lawyer has a very different role in the rule of law, namely the role of the party defender of interests vis-à-vis a judge whose independence is, of course, the greatest good. So you'd have to take all kinds of measures. You should make sure it's in another arrondissement and there's no history of loyalty. That seems risky to me, so I'd say, let's not do that and let's get a clear divorce.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u14	Does Mr Van Nispen have any specific problems in mind? Does he have numbers? Does he have any examples of cases where this really went wrong? Or is it more of a general fear that things might go wrong and that it would be negative in the image of the judiciary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u15	It's the last one in particular. I did not use any big words here saying that this is a scandal or that it went completely wrong there and I have no stacks of investigations. That is absolutely true, but I do see the risks of allowing that possibility to continue in the law. It's not that crazy. So the argument is not that things go wrong often or not, but I think it would be better to make a clear separation in the roles of the various players in the rule of law. That is why I am making this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u16	I think you were done, weren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u17	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u18	Thank you. Mr Van Oosten on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u19	Thank you, Mr President. It has already been recalled: three years ago I was here, but I was not concerned with the case of justice. I had an illustrious predecessor then. He's done a lot of work. In any case, that has led to a very concrete commitment, namely that the Minister is going to work on a legislative proposal. I'll come back to that in a minute. I've been reading in. I would like to say to the President and to my fellow Members that, for the sake of administration, I will also mention a number of amendments, because I will withdraw them. In part, I have replaced them with new amendments. Mr. Chairman. Judges must be of unspoken behavior in the Netherlands. If a judge misbehaves, it obviously undermines trust in the rule of law. That goes without saying. Fortunately, as I say, for the most part, our judiciary is made up, perhaps even in its entirety, of skilled lawyers who rarely behave inappropriately in their work as well as in their private lives. Public drunkenness, refusal to work, aggression and so on: I do not associate this with our judges. However, if misconduct should occur, an appropriate disciplinary framework would be appropriate and this law would be necessary for that purpose. Because according to the current legal framework, a judge can only receive a written warning or be dismissed. The first is likely to have little impact on the dike and the second is so far-reaching that it is, I hope, rarely necessary. It is therefore wise to extend this arsenal with three measures. In the first period, a number of amendments were tabled by a number of colleagues from my own group, but also those from the CDA and the PvdA, which would strengthen that law. Those amendments were considered critical by the Council of State. As a result, I have decided to withdraw four amendments, which I would like to draw your attention to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u20	The Van der Steur/Recourt amendments (Doc. 9 and 15) have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u21	You have just heard that Mr Van Dam has also withdrawn two amendments to which the VVD had contributed. Why do I withdraw these amendments? Because I do not want those amendments to stand in the way of further successful consideration of this bill. I will continue with two amendments, but I have retabled them. I will spare you why, but the bottom line is that I felt I should take the advice of the Council of State to heart on that point. This leads me to propose to you an amendment (Doc. 22), which states that the salary of the judge may be withheld for half a month as a disciplinary measure, following the measures that may be taken for, for example, a dysfunctional prosecutor, whom I do not hope to encounter, but by the way. I have therefore followed the suggestion made by the Council of State. I have another, second amendment (in part No. 23), in view of the possibility of imposing a disciplinary measure on a conditional basis, which I believe could, in certain circumstances, be an appropriate sanction. Finally, I should like to conclude by tabling a motion for a resolution on the drafting of the proposed legislative proposal, which was initially also proposed in an amendment which should lead to the amendment of Article 51 of the Wrra, the Law on the legal status of judicial officials, in such a way as to align the requirement of conformity with the way in which it is now regulated for other officials. That could be done by regulating it at the level of the AMvB. The Council of State suggests that as such. But I do think that needs to be realized now. I therefore rely on a positive judgment. I'll read the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Minister for Security and Justice has already announced in April 2016 the preparation of a legislative proposal for the adaptation of Article 51 Wrra in such a way as to amend its conformity requirement;]] [[noting that this process has so far ceased to exist;]] [[calls on the government to consult the bill before the summer of 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Oosten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33861-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u23	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u24	Mr. Chairman. Judges should not be exalted above the law. If official Jansen or employee Pieterse does something wrong, he or she may be punished for doing so, and judges should not be subject to anything else. That's why the CDA is for the bill as it is for us today. For the CDA, judicial independence is of great importance, but for the CDA it is also important that the same judiciary does a high quality job. One can't do without the other. Maintaining this quality and updating the instruments for this purpose is very important. That is why the CDA recognises the usefulness of this bill. In fact, only two disciplinary measures are possible under the current law: the written warning and the measure of dismissal. The CDA understands the conclusion that there is a lot of space between them. We are therefore in favour of the additional disciplinary measures in this bill: a written reprimand by the President, a written reprimand by the Supreme Court and a suspension by the Supreme Court. On second thought, having taken note of the opinions of the Council of State, we believe that all proposed amendments are unnecessary or undesirable. That is why I have just withdrawn my amendments and I am glad that other amendments have also been withdrawn. We would not support the amendment tabled by former Members, Mr van der Steur and Mr Recourt, if it had still existed. We agree with the Council of State that the regulation of such a sensitive subject should be included in a separate legislative proposal, should you wish to do so. It has already been said today: why has this been going on for so long? I believe that Mr Van Nispen was talking about a whole puppet charade. Or another word he used for that, which was added to it. We have to be careful that we do not do that today, with all the motions now being poured out over the potatoes as gravy. Maybe at some point, after such a long treatment, you should do what you have to do as a Chamber, that is to say, just align the bill that lies ahead, and start all kinds of other initiatives at another time. I think that's the best thing you can do right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u25	Mr Van Dam may think so, but I had those motions with me three years ago. I verified that the issues I wanted to deal with at the time, on 3 February 2015, have been settled. That is not the case. There's still research going on. I did not make any amendments on purpose either. After all, I would do exactly the same thing as I would now be blaming the then Member of Parliament, Mr Van der Steur. I didn't. I'm coming up with motions so I can see if there's any support for it and call on the government to look into it. It's part an investigation and part an amendment of a law. That's why. I think that's exactly how we're supposed to work here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u26	I'll give you that. Of course, I am not quite clear on how you did that three years ago. If that's what you said then, then it makes sense for you to come with it today. I only hope that you will understand that when we assess these motions we also have an eye for all the sunshine that has already taken place because of this bill. It is the intention of the CDA group to drive this bus to the draw. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u27	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u28	Mr. Chairman. The history of this bill goes back a long way, and I do not have to dwell on it for long, because I think Mr Van Nispen has put it nicely and nicely what history is and what has happened, especially around this bill. Mr. Chairman. I would like to dwell on the proposal itself. The position of the judge in our state system is indeed a special one. Trust in the judge is therefore crucial. I believe that the most important role in maintaining that confidence lies with the judge himself. He himself is the main guardian of that integrity, and I have to say that this is always going very well. Fortunately, we have hardly any incidents. However, if there is malpractice of judges, it must be possible to respond adequately and appropriately. The current law only knows the resignation and the written warning. That is no longer the case at this time, a conclusion which the Stevens Committee drew nine years ago. It is therefore a good thing that the present arsenal is expanded to include disciplinary possibilities. There are a few extensions that may appeal to me, for example the transfer. If two judges have a conflict with each other, work-related disagreement which creates an unworkable situation within that court, it is a good thing that a judge can be transferred. It is also a good thing that a judge can be suspended. Suppose there is a presumption of excessive alcohol consumption by a judge. That could lead to dismissal at some point, but if you're not sure, you can't do anything in the current situation. The new instruments will then be able to suspend such a judge. This is well in line with practical needs. As far as I am concerned, this is also true of Mr Oomen-Ruijten, who, in fact, is replacing the warning. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, D66 can agree to the bill. Let's get this through quickly. If I have counted correctly, it was a whole puzzle, there are three amendments; three of the VVD and one of the PVV, which is not here today. These amendments do not appeal to me. My group will therefore not agree to that. I hope we can finish this bill in a positive way next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u29	Thank you very much, Mr Grothuizen. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u30	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u31	Mr. Chairman. It is good that we can continue to deal with this bill today. It's been a long time. Since the suspension of the debate, as agreed with your Chamber, an opinion has been requested from the Council of State on a number of amendments tabled. A further report was also issued on this subject. In the letter of offer of the opinion and the further report, my predecessor also appreciated the amendments. I agree with that, by the way. There is, however, some schizophrenia in the sense that, when we were preparing for Van der Steur, I had to ask whether it was Mr Van der Steur, who had tabled an amendment, or Mr Van der Steur, who subsequently advised against it. But I think we have all been able to benefit from a rather thorough opinion from the Council of State, which at least has led to a number of reconsiderations on your part. I note that we share the main point of departure, namely that the current legal framework for disciplinary measures for judges is not sufficient and that it is desirable to extend the palette between the very light possibility and the most difficult possibility that is now available in the law, even though, of course, you never have to use it, and in practice this will only be the case in sporadic terms. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to comment on the motions. Then I will deal with the two amendments. The first motion is Mr Van Nispen's motion on item No. 24. It requests that a number of functions be examined as incompatible. In fact, a number of functions are considered incompatible with the role of Judge-Alternate. I would advise against that motion. Judge-alternates are often used by the judiciary because of their expertise. The case-law provides guidance on the obstacles to the use of alternates. It does not follow that lawyers and civil servants cannot be alternates. Actually, justice says: we don't have to go that far. Frankly, I do not see any immediate cause for this either. The case law also benefits from the specific expertise. An appropriate guide is sufficient to avoid conflicts of interest in practice. It's different for politicians. Members of the First Chamber and the Second Chamber shall not be used as a judge-alternate. I am still waiting for the Council's opinion on the case-law to consider whether the right to substitute should be legally excluded for parliamentarians. That's the advice I'm waiting for. If it gives rise to adjustment, I will of course return to your Chamber. Then there is the Van Nispen motion on part No. 25. I believe that Mr Van Nispen himself has already indicated that this is something complicated. On the one hand, you want purity and transparency. On the other hand, this affects privacy very much, not only to the privacy of judges but also to the privacy of their partners. I therefore find it complicated to say now that I absolutely agree with this; I leave the opinion on this motion to the Chamber. But I will not say now that I am very opposed to it and that I am against the motion. Maybe I can make the next proposal. If Mr Van Nispen continues the motion, I would like to talk about this with the Council for Justice and the NVvR. Then I will send you a letter with an opinion on this motion. Then you will receive informed advice. I think that's possible for the AO trial, which is scheduled to take place in two months. That gives us some time to have orderly conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u32	I think that's a good idea. I would point out, however, that all three motions do not fall completely from the sky. What is in it is already evident from a report that I have used to achieve a better guarantee of integrity. There is also a report from 2014 of the case law itself. Since then, the case law has always started working on it itself. I don't want to rush anyone, but I find investigations that last three or four years are always pretty long. I do therefore appreciate the Minister's saying that he will deliver an opinion on the motion within two months. Until then, at least I shall have the motion in part No. Hold on 25.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u33	At the request of Mr Van Nispen, I propose his motion (33861, No. 25). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u34	Mr President, thank you. The judgment on the Van Nispen motion in part No. I can leave 26 to the Chamber, also because the motion is in line with a movement that has already started. There's a new code division of business in the making, I can tell you here. The Council of State and the Supreme Court have been consulted on this. The revised code is expected to enter into force this year, so this would be support. Then I come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Van Oosten on part No. 27. I note that he has taken note with agreement of the intention to amend Article 51 of the Law on the legal status of judicial officials. I think we agree that the right of amendment of the House of Representatives should not be restricted beyond what is necessary to ensure the constitutional requirement of judicial independence. The primacy of the legislator is paramount, you might say. I have taken good note of the opinion of the Council of State on the appropriate level of regulation of legal remedies for judicial officials. That advice leads me to the conclusion that, if you want to settle that, you need to do so in a separate legislative process, in order to ensure that you also follow a careful path. You'll have to sit down with all the agencies, including the NVvR. I also understand that you say that two years ago, in the debate that we did not conclude at the time, we said that we were going to work on it. The motion is a bit of a tempo, but if I promise you right now that I'm just gonna get on with it, you might be willing to keep her on as long as I'm working on it. Before the summer I will come back to you or at least go into consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u35	That's good, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u36	At the request of Mr Van Oosten, I propose his motion (33861, No. 27). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u37	Then there are the amendments. The first is the Van Oosten amendment to item No. 22. I can leave that judgment to the Chamber. It is an amended amendment following an opinion of the Council of State. It has advised that a slight financial penalty could fit within the system of disciplinary measures. The opinion also takes into account the views expressed by the NVvR, the Court of Justice and the Supreme Court. I see that the proposal is in line with what also applies to the standing magistrate and other officials. I think that this is a good adjustment to the previously proposed amendment on the retention of salaries. I would also like to make a few comments on the Van Oosten amendment. 23 I leave to the Chamber. The Council of State has advised that a conditional suspension as a disciplinary measure is possible in itself. In particular, the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court have expressed a favourable view on the possibility of conditional measures in the view of the amendments. That is why my positive opinion is: judge Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u38	Thank you for your reply and for the opinions on the motions and amendments. I knew you could be very short, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-01-tweedekamer-10.u39	We will be voting on the legislative amendment and the amendments and motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister and thank the Members of Parliament.
