ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u1	Then we go to the VAO Shopping Times. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u2	Good morning, Madam President. It's nice to be back here after an hour or ten break. Mr. Chairman. Most Dutch people shop on Sundays. So it makes sense for many entrepreneurs to open their business on that day. That must be done voluntarily, as far as D66 is concerned. It is up to the entrepreneur himself to participate or not on the Sunday of sale, and not on a vve or on a city council. We do not think it is any longer of this time that entrepreneurs are forced by a city council to remain closed. We want freedom of choice for entrepreneurs: open to those who want it; closed to those who want it. Mr. Chairman. This can be arranged by people themselves, namely by voting for, for example, D66 on 21 March during the municipal elections, because then we will get it done that the same rules apply to all entrepreneurs with regard to opening up on Sundays. This also avoids the competitive disadvantage that you now see between municipalities that share D66 and municipalities that do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u3	Before you proceed, Mr Moorlag has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u4	I'm surprised. So if everyone votes on March 21, D66, here in this Chamber, the whole contract law goes down? If you sign a contract with a vve or a developer, isn't this a matter of contract law? That is not determined by voting behaviour on 21 March, is it? It's determined by contract law, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u5	I think you're right. The Secretary of State has said that we want to put an end to the situation that a vve can determine for an entrepreneur whether or not it opens. That goes both ways. That means that a vve can't tell you to open, but that a vve can't tell you to be closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u6	Even if you, as an entrepreneur, have made a contractual commitment to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u7	If you have agreed to it as an entrepreneur yourself and have said that you choose to be closed or open on Sundays. Deal's a deal. But that freedom of choice must lie with the entrepreneur. That's why I keep this story. That is what the municipal elections are about, but in the meantime we have a national responsibility to look at its impact, the competitive disadvantage. I just mentioned the competitive disadvantage between municipalities, but you also have uncertainty and competitive disadvantage within municipalities. For example, in Harderwijk retailers may not open in the shopping heart, but at the tourist waterfront a number of tourist shops may open. In the street behind it, that's not allowed. In Goes, the baker has different rules than the hairdresser. This madness is very detrimental to entrepreneurs. Will the Secretary of State also consider and assess these competitive disadvantages when assessing retail policy? My second point concerns the penalty for shop opening outside opening hours. It is provided for in the framework law on economic offences. As a result, an entrepreneur who is open on Sundays or late evenings, for example, can face a fine of over €20,000 or six months in custody. This dates from a time when all shops were closed at the same time throughout the Netherlands, but isn't that an absurd and disproportionate penalty? The Secretary of State has not yet given a ruling on this in the AA, so I would like to make a clear statement on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you. Mr Bishop of the SGP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you, Mr President. I shall confine myself to tabling three motions. I think that the arguments and considerations have been sufficiently exchanged. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas shopkeepers are required to open their shops on Sundays under threat of a periodic penalty payment in several places;]] [[noting that the government intends to bring forward a legislative proposal to ensure the freedom of entrepreneurs to be closed on Sundays;]] [[calls on the government in the bill to prevent forced shop opening, to grant the right to be closed on Sundays to all shopkeepers, regardless of their contract or motive and regardless of whether it is a new contract or an extension,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34647-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u10	I want to try again. I understand very well that Mr Bishop is wondering why an entrepreneur is being put under pressure by means of a penalty payment to open on Sundays. But why does he think it makes sense that an entrepreneur with a penalty payment is put under pressure to stay closed on Sundays?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u11	I think it's clear. We attach great importance to a collective moment of rest in a week. An economy that has to run seven days a week, 24 hours a day, is socially extremely undesirable. Every person needs a breather, such as a holiday period or a moment of relaxation. That's how as a society, collectively, you need those kinds of moments. We say: people, be careful, from our history and tradition we have the fixed pattern of a day a week that there is nothing to worry about, cherish it. We therefore wish to slow down the opening up of shops on Sundays and all kinds of other activities on that day. In addition, of course, we also have the conviction that that day is a special day, but that has to do with our religious beliefs. We do not put them under the table, but this is of much broader importance than our personal religious beliefs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u12	I understand that and I also understand that Sunday is a special day and that I can spend most of my time with my family, which is absolutely beautiful. But I happened to be in Harderwijk last Sunday in the shopping heart that was totally extinct and where nobody was actually enjoying the fact that those shops were closed. So my question is: can't that rest be taken in a place that people themselves choose so that other people who choose it can just go to a store?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u13	That is a wonderful example of what we are saying at such a moment in all business, enterprise and so on: let's take a breath. That joy of buying and buying and selling has already been experienced by people on Saturday or they are going to experience it on Monday. That's fine and that doesn't increase sales and sales on balance and macro, but only distribute them. Hence the value of Sunday closing of shops for us is a great asset. Then I have two more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the evaluation report shows that two thirds of workers who work on Sundays would prefer not to and that this is up to 90% for workers who do not work on Sundays;]] [[Whereas the increasing opening of shops on Sunday further harms the interests of shopkeepers;]] [[calls on the Government to come up with measures to ensure that no worker has to act on Sundays against his express wish, to inform them adequately about their legal rights and to ensure that the inspection supervises compliance with the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas shopkeepers are required to open their shops on Sundays under threat of a periodic penalty payment in several places;]] [[noting that this hampers the freedom of business and establishment of shopkeepers who would like to establish themselves in a shopping mall, while their negotiating position vis-à-vis landlords is weak;]] [[calls on the government in the bill to prevent forced shopping opening to ensure that any contract includes an exemption provision for shopkeepers who do not want to open on Sundays and also to ensure that they have the opportunity to be closed to them at uneconomic times,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bishop and Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34647-6]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3447-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u15	Thank you very much, Mr Bishop. I call Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr. Chairman. It is good that it is finally being addressed that large real estate owners can unilaterally impose rules on small retailers. In the AO, I drew attention to the relatively weak negotiating position in the practice of small retailers vis-à-vis large real estate multinationals. To avoid unwanted situations in the future, therefore the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government is currently studying how to ensure the freedom of shopkeepers to remain closed on Sundays and that it intends to send a legislative proposal to the Council of State at the end of this year;]] [[Whereas the dominant position of small retailers in negotiations on contract terms is often weaker than that of property owners and that refusal to agree may mean that they have to leave their premises;]] [[calls on the government to include in the new legislative proposal that shopkeepers cannot be forced by property owners to agree to mandatory opening of contracts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya, Mr Bruins and Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34647-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u17	Finally, I would like to say something about parties who want to turn the municipal elections into a referendum on shopping hours. They can also choose not to abolish referendums. We'll vote on that later today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr. Chairman. It gives me the opportunity to express my support for the approach taken by the Secretary of State to come up with a legislative proposal to regulate it better, where shopkeepers are contractually forced to be open in a somewhat dubious way. Furthermore, I do not really need another national debate on this subject. I remember being raised as a child with how crucial the school struggle was in our political history. The shopping time struggle does not deserve that same status to my taste. We've taken good care of it now, in the sense that it's decentralised. I want it to stay that way, too. Let's regulate certain excesses, and this is one of them, but let's stick to that for a while. In itself, I do sympathize with the point of punishment. It also seems a bit out of a bit of a past, so I like that. But I do not want to constantly discuss this issue at national level. I believe that it should remain mainly decentralised. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u19	Madam President. I have been a spokesperson on this dossier for 11 years now, and I have always had the same line, that the entrepreneurs simply decide whether or not to open it. I've never deviated from that. One time I had to do it because as a tolerating partner we needed the support of the SGP in the Upper House. Then for a while we had to freeze my plans as spokesperson, so on behalf of the group. But in principle our line has always been that the entrepreneur decides and not the municipality, because in the beginning D66 and also the VVD were very much on the line that the municipalities decide, we said: no, the entrepreneur decides. So we really never strayed from it. We have been as consistent and consistent as the SGP, sometimes for other reasons. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to leave the choice of opening on Sundays and public holidays, within the applicable time limits, to individual entrepreneurs, without any coercion and/or penalty clauses from municipalities, franchisers and owners or landlords of shopping centres,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34647-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u20	Madam President. The motion affects very much what Mr Bishop has also tabled on my behalf, in two motions that I have signed. We have also explicitly mentioned these franchisees. Franchiseers, with franchise contracts, are already in trouble anyway, which I once put on the agenda here a few years ago. That is why I wanted it explicitly appointed. Perhaps my colleague Bishop's motions will suffice. It is also nice if the chairman should read out the Bishop/Graus motion immediately. That always sounds nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u21	Thank you for your explanation. Mr Paternotte has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u22	Mr Graus is quite right, of course, that within the PVV he has been the leader on this subject for eleven years and, with the exception of those two years in the dowry cabinet, has drawn a straight line. Now the PVV participates in the municipal elections in 60 municipalities this time. You're going to get seats. Do you know if all those PVVs in all these municipalities have the same line as you and indeed say "let the entrepreneurs"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u23	I do not think you are quite right with that number, but that does not matter now. Could you clarify your question, Mr. Paternotte?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u24	The PVV participates in the municipal elections in more municipalities than last time. It concerns a few dozen municipalities, I understand just now from my colleague Van der Lee. Do you know if all the PVVs in these municipal councils are in the same line as you and in the municipalities are going to choose to release it on Sundays and leave it to the entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u25	No. I'm not gonna talk about that either. Why not? I never interfere with my colleagues in the First Chamber, nor with those in the Provincial States, where of course we have been involved for a long time. The same applies to the municipal councils. We are now participating in two congregations, and I believe that 28 will be added. I do not interfere with that at all, because they will be autonomous representatives of the people when they are elected. As far as I'm concerned, these people have the right to control their own program, so I'm not gonna interfere. I don't like them interfering with my line either, I have to be honest. What you don't want to do, don't do to anyone else. I made that point to you this morning, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u26	That's right; that was in a different context. I'm asking this question because people are going to have to choose later. They want to know what they get when they vote for the PVV. Will they then get the line of Mr Graus, who is absolutely beautiful, or will they perhaps get another line? Do you think that, at least before the elections, the departments should make that clear to the electorate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u27	Well, the Graus line doesn't exist yet. I intend to start a fragrance line one day: the Graus line with smells, but it doesn't exist yet. All I'm carrying is the PVV's fractional line. A democratic majority decides within the PVV. I have, of course, had conversations with people who are about to join the city council and you can assume that I have not met anyone so far who is not going to follow my line on behalf of the PVV, the PVV line. As soon as the Graus line arrives, I'll let you try it first. That's gonna be a smell full of pheromones and attraction to women, which you're gonna shut up about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u28	Many thanks for this last addition. Mr Amhaouch of the CDA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u29	Mr. Chairman. The CDA attaches great importance to subsidiarity, that municipalities, local democracy, can decide for themselves how they deal with enterprise and leisure in their living environment and their social environment. In my view, the evaluation has clearly demonstrated that there is no need to change the law submitted in 2013 by.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As Mr Van der Lee points out, the law works well. That is why we do not have any additional motion or other wishes. We do, however, support the motion by Mr Alkaya and Mr Bruins. We do not want to see stranglehold contracts for small businesses to be opened on Sundays if contracts are to be extended. We are also very pleased that the Secretary of State has announced in the same vein that companies or shopkeepers do not have that word unilaterally; we do not want to be forced to open choke contracts on Sundays. That's up to the entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u30	Thank you. Now we go to Mr Moorlag of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I actually agree with Mr Van der Lee's moderate line. On the other hand, I understand Mr Paternotte's heightened state of excitement. If you lose a crown jewel, of course you are eagerly looking for a new crown jewel. Apparently, that's become the Shopping Times Act. If one turns into a fancy bijouterie, then you should go shopping in the shop for a new crown jewel. Despite the fact that we have done well, there are a few shortcomings to be noted in the current system. That's why I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas contractual obligations to open up shops between entrepreneurs and landlords and operators of retail real estate may become disproportionate for entrepreneurs due to time or change of circumstances;]] [[calls on the Government to submit a bill to the Chamber conferring jurisdiction on the court to annul or mitigate the contractual obligation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34647-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u32	Mr. Chairman. When I looked into this matter, I was very surprised that it was laid down by law that shops on Good Friday should close at seven o'clock in the evening. I also saw some surprise at the Secretary of State. What reasonable purpose is served by this? That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the legal limitation of shop opening hours on Good Friday to 7 p.m. has no reasonable ground;]] [[calls on the Government to submit to the Chamber a proposal to amend the Shopping Times Act to remove this restriction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34647-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The law is the law and the shopping times are arranged locally. Since D66 gave a vote in this House, I'm gonna do the same. The VVD also likes to see entrepreneurs go over it themselves. So there is something to choose in the municipal elections. Mr. Chairman. Of course, the VVD has an eye for the interests of the small shopkeepers. Deal's a deal. Force one-sided to be open or closed, of course that is not possible. We are looking forward to the Secretary of State's bill to ensure that entrepreneurs can really do so freely. The shopkeeper should not be forced unilaterally by a landlord or an association of operators to open if he does not want to. But we are asking for something to be done, namely that this bill should also provide for the shopkeeper not to be forced to close if he does not want to and if the city council has allowed him to be open. Can the Secretary of State promise that that will be taken? The VVD still has the question of whether the Secretary of State does not consider that the unilateral imposition of the open or closed can not be dealt with now. Doesn't the judgments of the judges point out that this has already been settled? Mr. Chairman. The evaluation of the Shopping Times Act looked, among other things, at the disadvantage that entrepreneurs experience when they are in a municipality where they are not allowed to be open on Sundays, while in a neighbouring municipality they are allowed to do so. The VVD is concerned about this competitive disadvantage. We ask the Secretary of State to repeat this evaluation in the near future, for example by adding it to the follow-up to the Retail Agenda. Can the Secretary of State also undertake to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u34	Thank you. I'll suspend for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u35	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've been asked a few questions. The first question on my stack, I think, was that it was not quite the first question, Mr Paternotte's question. He asked me to make two commitments, firstly to include unfair competition within municipalities in terms of opening hours. A tourist area may open, but a shopping center in a residential area is not allowed. It can sometimes be uncomfortable for us in national politics what a municipality decides. This is, however, part of a system in which municipalities determine and local authorities tailor their policies to local needs. In the evaluation of the law the municipal regulations have been examined and there are not many municipalities with a regulation containing restrictions in terms of industry or territory. This possibility means that the municipality can only make the choice of whether there will be wider opening hours and, if so, at what times and days. In a municipality there is sometimes a need to close down a shopping centre, but not the tourist area. I am in favour of the existing system in which municipalities make this assessment. This system also works well. The possibilities of municipalities are limiting this system. The system that municipalities use to make that assessment also looks at the economic impact, what shopkeepers think and what citizens think of it. So I see no reason to take over this part. That is different from the question put by Mr Wörsdörfer of the VVD. He asked if I would like to see whether there is a competitive disadvantage if in one municipality shops are allowed to open at certain times and not in another municipality. This has also been part of the review of the Shopping Time Act. I think it is a good idea for Mr Wörsdörfer to look at this subject once again when we start evaluating the Retail Agenda. Mr Paternotte also asked a question about criminalising infringements of the Shopping Time Act. He wants me to look at proportionality and fairness of that criminalisation through the Law on Economic Crimes. I don't see any reason to change the legal system, but I do think it's a good idea to talk to the D.A. to see how the penalty ceilings are dealt with in that law. I'd like to do that, too. The VVD also asked me to arrange in the bill that shopkeepers cannot be forced to close their stores through private agreements. The starting point of the scheme I am going to make will be that a shopkeeper does not have to be open if he or she has not agreed to it. This is about the freedom of choice of the shopkeeper, of course within the limits of the Shopping Time Act as it is. As a follow-up, it is proposed to extend this freedom of choice to the case where a shopkeeper is required to keep the shop closed in private contracts. As I said, the limits of the Shopping Times Act are fixed here, but although I am not aware that shopkeepers have also made agreements not to open when they are allowed by the municipality, I think it is a good idea to include this in this bill. After all, within the limits of the Shopping Time Act, it is about freedom of choice, so the shopkeeper's own consideration, whether to open or not. In my opinion, these were the questions that were asked to me. I now come to the assessment of the motions. The SGP has submitted two motions, the aim of which is that shopkeepers should in all cases not be allowed to open on Sundays, regardless of contract or motivation. It concerns the motion in part No. 5 and the motion in part No. 7. I dissuade these motions. With a bill, I'd like to return the freedom of choice to the shopkeeper. The shopkeeper doesn't have to be open or closed at times he hasn't agreed to. When you as a shopkeeper do agree to certain conditions, you are subject to those conditions. A deal's a deal I called it. For new contracts this means that if you want to rent and the conditions under which you want to rent the store space don't fit you, you can decide not to sign the rental contract and open your shop elsewhere. I find a government-imposed general duty for landlords to go too far to accept tenants who do not want to open on Sundays. Then the motion to part No. 6 by Mr Bishop, co-signed by Mr Alkaya, requesting the government to ensure that no one has to work on Sundays that do not want to. I advise against this motion. We have a Working Time Act, which regulates things around working on Sundays. This is not a generic rule. The Working Time Act provides that you don't have to work on Sundays if you don't want to. There are exceptions to this. I see no reason to take additional measures to protect shopkeepers from Sunday work. However, as I indicated during the general consultation, I will see if there are any possibilities to improve the information about the rights you have as an employee to work or not on Sundays. Then I come to the motion on part No. 8 tabled by Mr Alkaya, Mr Bruins and Mr Amhaouch. This motion calls on the government to include in the new bill that shopkeepers cannot be forced by property owners to agree to mandatory opening of contracts. I'll leave this motion judgment room. The idea behind the motion is sympathetic. The right to rent determines everything in case of contract extension, but it is important to include this in the bill that I am going to make. Then the motion to part No. 9 by Mr Graus, in which he asked the government to regulate in the bill that shopkeepers could not be forced to close their shop by municipalities, by a private agreement or by a franchiser. I advise against this motion. As far as I'm concerned, this motion runs counter to the law. The law lays down when a store may or may not be open with exemptions for the municipality. So what's in the motion isn't up to the government, it's up to the municipality. Then Mr Moorlag's motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u37	This was exactly what Minister Camp of Economic Affairs said to me at the time when I said: but then franchisees are in trouble. Then Minister Kamp of Economic Affairs said to me: I am not going to interfere and we are not concerned about that. But at some point, Minister Kamp did come up with a franchise code, a mandatory code. It's gonna be law soon. At the time, I was the driver of that, because the Minister did not necessarily want that. I mention the franchisees, because I think that if people do not want to, they should not be forced to do so, end of exercise. We don't live here in North Korea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u38	No, as far as the last one is concerned, thank God. I have just said that what Mr Graus is asking for in this motion is contrary to the Shopping Time Act, but it is contrary to the Shopping Time Act. The Shopping Times Act includes when a store is allowed to open and when not, with a possibility for the municipality to grant exemption. What Mr Graus is asking for through this motion will perhaps lead to new policies through the various municipal councils, but not through this Chamber. This consideration is not here, but at municipal level. As far as I am concerned, Mr Van der Lee has said this very well. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 10 by Mr Moorlag. This motion calls on the government to submit a legislative proposal to the Chamber giving the court the power to cancel or mitigate contractual obligations. I advise against this motion. I hope that in such cases the landlord and tenant can come out of this kind of conflict by mutual agreement. If that does not work, the retailer can already go to court on the basis of the Civil Code with a request for amendment or termination of the contract due to unforeseen circumstances. The court shall consider, inter alia, the circumstances in which the agreement was entered into, the assumptions made by the parties and the reasonableness and fairness. Moreover, it follows from case law that the judge is reluctant to deal with this, given the principle of freedom of contract. So since there is already a provision in the Civil Code, this motion is superfluous and I advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u39	I know that general provision in the Civil Code: if anything is contrary to reasonableness and fairness. But it's something else when something is disproportionately burdensome. I have made the comparison with labour law and the non-compete clause. There is an explicit legal provision that the court should have power of moderation. The Secretary of State is still considering an amendment to the law. Would the Secretary of State promise me that they will at least consider and involve that figure we know in labour law? I'm not asking for a commitment that she'll take it, but would she like to take a look at that? I would very much appreciate it if she would undertake to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u40	Of course, Mr Moorlag is asking me to be extremely charming. At the same time, it is already in the Civil Code that you can go to court to ask for an agreement that you have concluded to change or mitigate the obligations in it. I would very much like to say yes to Mr Moorlag, but he will not get along very well, because then the outcome will ultimately be what I am saying here. So to answer Mr Moorlag's question: no, I do not think that exercise will lead to anything because it is already regulated in the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u41	This is also the case in labour law. That generic provision of reasonableness and fairness, that legal figure also applies there. Nevertheless, there is a strong competitive obligation. This is a sharp bed for Sunday opening. I could ask you more charmingly, but of course it's up to the Secretary of State. I would very much appreciate it if we could look at it with something more than a lazy eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u42	Thank you. Finally, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u43	Let me say to Mr Moorlag that I will take another look at it. I don't think the outcome will be any different, but if someone asks you something so incredibly nice, then you're gone, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u44	I'd like to introduce myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u45	But that doesn't change the judgment of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u46	That's why I'm prepared to withdraw my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u47	Since the Moorlag motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u48	(NL) Mr President, finally, the motion for a resolution on item No. 11, about removing restrictions for shopkeepers to be open Good Friday after 19:00. The said Article contains the prohibition on being open on Sundays and certain public holidays. This includes not only Good Friday after 19:00, but also Christmas Eve and Death Remembrance. Municipalities may grant an exemption from this ban under the current law, including to be open on Good Friday after 7 p.m., also to be open on Christmas Eve and also to be open on Death Remembrance. So this is part of the municipal balance. I therefore see no reason to change the law on this point, and therefore advise against this motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u49	Thank you very much. A short question from Mr Wörsdörfer, and I would like to continue with the next VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u50	I understand that, Mr President, but one question has not been answered. I thought, "Maybe it'll show up at the bottom of the pile." The question was as follows: does the Secretary of State not consider that, on the basis of current case law, it is actually the case that a shopkeeper cannot be forced unilaterally to be open or closed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u51	I think that Mr Wörsdörfer refers to the ruling of the Court on Paddepoel and the consideration that was made there that the agreement that preceded it was contrary to reasonableness and fairness. I imagine that would work the other way too. But then I will speculate, because the case before the Court was precisely about the issue in which someone was forced to open without his consent. At that time, it was established that that was not reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u52	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the VAO Shopping Time Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-4.u53	The motions tabled will be put to the vote after the recess, in a week's time.
