ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-6.u1	I see that the spokesmen for the next VOC are now present. We will continue with the VAO Enterprise and business finance. I give the floor to Mr Amhaouch on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today there are nice reports in the media about the use of the Chamber of Commerce in combating the nuisance of unwanted telephone approach. This is a step in the right direction, as far as the CDA is concerned. In addition, we have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that entrepreneurs are annoyed by the unsolicited approach by companies without having given permission;]] [[noting that companies without legal personality, such as sole proprietorships, have registered their address and must be provided on request by the CJC, where third parties use this information for, inter alia, unsolicited direct marketing activities;]] [[noting that entrepreneurs can activate the non-mailing indicator when registering at the CJC, indicating that they do not want to be approached for unsolicited direct marketing;]] [[noting that parties who approach entrepreneurs with unsolicited direct marketing do not sufficiently respect this non-mailing indicator;]] [[Whereas annoyances can be avoided and privacy can be guaranteed if entrepreneurs, without legal personality, can only be approached for direct marketing activities if they have explicitly indicated their desire to do so;]] [[Whereas the EZK Secretary of State also intends to arrange for entrepreneurs without legal personality to be contacted by telephone only if they have explicitly authorised this by means of a so-called opt-in system;]] [[calls on the Government to protect the home address of non-authorized organisations from economic operators without legal personality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Wörsdörfer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32637-333]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-6.u3	During the AO we already congratulated the Secretary of State for the beautiful SME action plan with the seven policies. The CDA is deeply concerned about the financing of SMEs. The entrepreneurs on the one hand and the banks on the other have several stories about financing amounts up to 1 million. We therefore look forward, among other things, to the results of the evaluation of the financial instruments and the examination of the coherence between the various instruments and the functioning of the capital market.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. I now give the floor to Mr Wörsdörfer on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mr. Chairman. In general, we talked about being as attractive as possible for start-ups in the Netherlands. The VVD wants an ambitious, state-wide approach that focuses on, for example, entrepreneurship education, attracting foreign talent, valorisation and internationalisation of those Dutch start-ups, to name but a few. The Secretary of State pledged a letter which the Chamber will receive before the end of the year. Can it promise that this letter will indeed adopt an integrated, national approach? Mr. Chairman. I naturally support Mr Amhaouch's plea. I didn't sign the motion for nothing. I am also pleased to hear that the Chamber of Commerce itself has now taken action. If there are still legal obstacles to preventingzzp'ers and entrepreneurs working from home from being harassed with all kinds of spam, we would like to hear it. Then perhaps we can do something about that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you, Mr. Wörsdörfer. I'm suspending the sitting for one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-6.u7	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mr. Chairman. We had some fun because on my way to box-K I threatened to take a turn too early. You'll fall off the stairs. Fortunately it went well again at the last moment. One motion has been tabled and one question asked. In the motion, Mr Amhaouch and Mr Wörsdörfer asked me to ask the Chamber of Commerce to protect the address of entrepreneurs without legal personality from unauthorized organisations. We feel it is becoming increasingly difficult for entrepreneurs to be approached so often for all kinds of marketing purposes. Within the system and the interests of the Trade Register Act, we are looking together for a way that is better but also maintains the interests of the Trade Register Act. This request by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Wörsdörfer fits in with that as far as I am concerned. That request reads as follows: "to protect the address of economic operators without legal personality'. If there is another place of business, the place of residence will not be affected. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also asked me, in the letter I am going to send to the Chamber on the start-up policy, to pay attention to an integrated and state-wide approach. The answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-6.u9	I have a question about the motion on the Chamber of Commerce and the addresses. How does the opinion of the Secretary of State, Court of Justice, relate to Mr Moorlag's motion? Because that's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-6.u10	This is really carefully maneuvering what you're doing here. You have a Trade Register Act which contains a number of grounds on which you provide data and in which a number of interests are mentioned. In addition, you have the method of operation of the Chamber of Commerce and in there you try to manoeuvre in such a way that you free entrepreneurs as much as possible from annoying marketing tools. Mr Moorlag's motion, because that is where you were talking about Mr Moorlag; what a wonderful cooperation I see here was too broad for me. That's why I'm deposing that motion and giving this motion judgment chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-08-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VAO.
