ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the debate on the budget for Health, Welfare and Sport. I would like to welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, the Minister for Medical Care and the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Agema as the first speaker on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u3	Mr. Chairman. As you know, my two parents passed away last year. In a completely different way than usual, the subjects we are discussing here on a weekly basis came to life. I knew the care as a patient and as a spokesperson, but not as a child of. More than before, I am impressed by the integrity, skill and involvement of the dozens of caregivers they were dealing with. My parents have received seven life-saving and innovative operations in a relatively short time, but both have died of a bacteria. They were 60s. That which should have been a bad year for them in terms of health ended differently. As children, we can still hardly understand that little bugs have taken care of this. The Minister for Medical Care will organise a global conference on the fight against antibiotic resistance. It is indeed a big problem. You can have the best doctors who can perform the most ingenious surgeries, but if people then die of a bacteria, we're empty-handed. Let me also take advantage of this personal moment to express my thanks from here on to all those involved employees. The employees of the intensive care unit of the Zaans Medical Center. Rowén, who did her work with such compassion. The lady from the dialysis department who sent a nice note after my father died. General Elands who was always involved and accessible. And also Cecilia, Melcha and Bertha who came to watch over my mother. And the two men who came to bring a brand-new high-low bed by midnight on Sunday night, so she was taken care of for the last hours of her life. In front of them, I stand here and in front of all the other good guys. It makes me proud to be a representative of the people on such a beautiful terrain as the care. It brings me the passion to go into it and to appeal to ministers when they trick us with nice talk. The cabinet's been there for a while. We therefore have a great opportunity today to take stock of the situation and it does not look good. Promised the previous cabinet that despite the cuts everything got better, this cabinet is even worse. The directors together form an advertising agency. I just crashed their picture. Flashy action plans are sent exclusively to the media, plans that later turn out to be nothing more than a façade, where care is lurked with, but then you don't hear about it anymore. We're being fooled in front of us. So-called staff shortages are resolved. So-called the rules are dealt with noticeably. So-called the hole that struck the closure of the nursing homes is closed. Shameless it is. They're also arrogant. Debates in the Lower House of the States-General degrade them to a simple discussion of questions and answers. No question is not an answer. They should actually have the decency to respond in terms of content if you shatter their umpteenth action plan with some simple parate knowledge. But come on, I'll buy you a lot of unpleasant questions today. That brings me to the biggest problem of care, the shortage of employees. The deficits are already so high that they are already so frequent. What do these deficits lead to? That someone who is almost blind and still lives at home is not getting any messages at the summer stop. That family has to take care of a dying one in the last few days at home. That sad situations in nursing homes like no time for helping with food, chatting or showering become commonplace. Deficiencies mean that the safety of employees in the ggz is already at stake. That already shut down acute admission wards, that had to close down a psychiatric clinic. This is already threatening the closure of GP posts by overburdened general practitioners. That departments and operating rooms should be shut down in hospitals already, that surgeries aren't going on right now. The paramedics are also taking action, and already people have to wait hours for the emergency services. Minister De Jonge's promise that the staff deficit for 2022 has been reduced to zero. The action plan he drew up for this is completely unrealistic. Even the Central Planning Office couldn't do anything with it. He changed his story. Suddenly, they were math examples. But that wasn't all. "Encouraging" sent out advertising minister De Jonge in response to the first results of his action plan. But he forgot to mention that these results had been achieved in the period prior to his action plan. The opposition's plans are rejected. With our overhead plan, nearly 30,000 managers can carry out an executive task on a voluntary basis, while retaining their salary. Almost €2 billion will be transferred from top to bottom. Question: Is the Minister prepared to implement our overhead plan? Then there's the term "extra." The advertising agency also has something to do with the word "extra." "Extra" always sounds good. Just yesterday, Minister De Jonge sent the advertising talk to the world that 13,000 extra employees were added to the nursing homes. But this isn't an extra. The previous cabinet dismissed 37,000 people from care and nursing homes. Now there's a very big deficit. The workload is therefore far and far too high. Only when 37 000 people are back somewhere in 2022 will he be back on an acceptable level. "Extra" is therefore misplaced. Deficiencies are run down and that's good, but that's quite different from extra. EUR 5 million for daily spending is not extra if you have just cut 1 billion on daily spending. EUR 5 million for something between home and nursing home is not extra if you have just made structural savings of EUR 3 billion. There's no extra money for community nursing if your predecessor cut hundreds of millions. There is no extra money for domestic aid if your predecessor halved the macro budget. You don't have any extra employees if they've just fired 77 grand. They're commercials, and if we had a Advertising Code Commission in care, it'd be a storm. Some of the staff shortages will be overcome because the growing economy gives the rulers a little support. But when it comes to the economy, our concern is very much dependent on a very strange story. Until 2010, care was always underestimated. Successive rulers then came under fire because they had to cut back. Since 2012, things have changed. Since the 2012 election summer, VWS decided to go hysterical. "In 2040 we paid half our income to care" was the mantra with which we were terrified by then Minister Schippers. It was the lie we couldn't get rid of the entire election period. It was wrong, because the Central Planning Bureau had calculated a doom scenario in which all the measures already taken had not been taken. They had made up a nice sum in which 26 years in a row the cost of care would grow by 4.4% a year and the economy by only 1.6% a year. Mathematically, this is so sneaky. Something that grows 5% a year doubles in 14 years, but something that grows 1% a year doubles in 72 years. So one presentation is a disaster, the other is nothing. If the economy grows proportionally, then nothing is going on. It was a completely unreal doom scenario that the Central Planning Bureau moved in, but that has always stayed between the ears. We were lied to and deceived. Hysterically, we were told that the cost of care would increase by as much as EUR 18 billion during the previous cabinet period. It was going to be 4.5. The ghosts were ripened for draconian austerity, but in reality it left over EUR 8 billion to windfalls. Did that money stay in care? Did we get a lower bounty? Was its own risk eliminated? No. Those billions went back to the treasury. Last year I said this and then Minister Bruins claimed that it was not. You know better by now. The windfalls on care go to the treasury and are used to close gaps elsewhere in the budget, such as that of mass immigration in 2015 and 2016. So it's hysterically budgeted on VWS first, then it's pretended to be the cost of care, but ultimately the mass immigration has been paid out of care money. As a result, care has become a savings fund to pay unpopular expenses elsewhere. You have to dare... over the back of the elderly and sick people. And there they are, the daring ones who do it, because they're just gonna go through with it. They continue to bury hysterically. They act like there's a lot more money going to health care. They act as if all the problems in the care are being paid for, but soon the cabinet will simply pay something else of the money that is still on the role of VWS. More mass immigration, maybe the gas ban. The healthcare expenditure would grow by EUR 18 billion under the previous cabinet, as I said, but it was going to be 4.5. And these gentlemen claim that this cabinet period increases healthcare spending by almost EUR 17 billion, but the first windfalls are already reported. Question: Will you please stop playing the terrible, manipulative game over the back of the elderly and seriously ill Dutch people? Will you please go back to normal burial, as was the situation before 2010? Question: Are you going to make it plain to the Dutch people that you are going to pay for the mass immigration and the ban on gas? That brings me to the step-on-step principle and the law that Minister De Jonge is going to send to the Chamber because supposedly our budget law is at stake. If things get worse economically, then the municipalities share in the cuts according to the principle of stairs. If things are better economically, as they are now, they will get money by kicking in. This is called the step-on-step principle, but that's not right. Surely it cannot be that the economic situation of our country determines whether municipalities receive more or less money for their care tasks? That it depends on economic prosperity whether the windows of someone in a wheelchair are completely fixed or still at eye level? Whether a disabled person can have a cat whose litter box is changed, or whether the cat has to leave the door because it is worse economically? Whether an old lady can keep a collection of old cameras out of her former photo shop or that they need to be cleaned up at economically worse tide because they catch too much dust? Question. Are you willing to end the step-on-step principle and calculate budgets for legal tasks based on quality, growth, demographics, wages and price adjustments? The same applies to the question of whether there are enough people at the bedside in the nursing homes. During Rutte I, the Agemaalten had to supplement the shortage of 12,000 employees. Rutte II fired 37,000 and Rutte III wants to bring them back. These fluctuations are caused by economic fluctuations and the political attitude. You don't do that in a civilized country, do you? That's not how you treat the most vulnerable people, is it? Stop treating carers so horribly by throwing them out one time and then asking them to come back again. Stop playing political games like this and give people decent nursing care in their last months with enough people to take care of them. We in the Netherlands want care to be of good quality, regardless of the economic state of our country. That's where you can send it. You can train people there and you can trust them as an organisation. That is why it is right for the Quality Institute to set quality standards independently and to calculate how much money is needed. Then as a minister, you're not going to send a bill to the Chamber to stop this? Then you wouldn't come up with such a false advertising argument as "the budget right of the Chamber"? I thought the Chamber kept its budget right. I thought the Chamber was able to shut down nursing homes. The Minister hasn't reviewed the rates for nursing homes lately, has he? The care offices are still applying the malus scheme, aren't they? Surely the Minister has 'negotiation space to agree on the price for reasons of efficiency'? I quote his letter of 1 October. Question: Are you willing to come up with one cost-covering rate for the nursing homes, and to abolish all administrative toys around them? The growth of the number of employees in the nursing homes must be the resultant of demographic growth and the quality we want. In addition, we must ensure that the billions that deal with care are well spent, for example on better salaries. It may be a good commercial argument that the vvt sector, i.e. the nursing, care and home care sector, gets 4%, but it comes out at the level before the crisis, while the marginal tax burden has only increased. Question: Is the Minister prepared to make efforts to raise wages in health care? Billions of them are leaking out of care. You never know how much it is, but estimates assume that around EUR 3 billion will leak out every year to EUR 5 billion due to fraud. Question: How many billion has the Justice Care Action Plan produced by now? And are you willing to bet the money for better salaries? Waste of materials and food, too high purchasing costs; many billions are lost by it. Toddler these billions out of care and wager them for better salaries. Set standards. Anyone who achieves those standards can keep the money for extra pay for the people who work in the workplace. Question: Is the Minister prepared to do so? But there's a lot more money being wasted, Mr. Chairman. Do something about the health insurance reserves. They still have about EUR 3 billion on the shelf. And then we haven't even talked about the profits of institutions that are leaking out. This amounts to an average of EUR 1.2 billion per year, since the returns on health care are increasing and solvency is above 30%. Despite the ban on distribution of profits, this ban is still largely evaded through e.g. or sub-contractor structures. Sharked caregivers put millions in their holdings and pay up to 60% of the turnover to themselves. These are constructions that are not prohibited to date, but are contrary to the spirit of the law, namely the prevention of self-enrichment with public money, with care money. The driver drives a fat Bentley, the employee should be happy with 4% raise. It has to be the other way around, Mr. Chairman. The money must remain in care, for care, for the people. At the beginning of this year, we have drawn up an amendment to stop these benefits, but the relevant Act of Accession has put healthcare providers in the fridge. Question: Are you willing to stop this disgusting flat self-enrichment and give the money to better salaries? What can be done in the refrigerator, by the way, is the miserable bill on benefits in health care, renamed to increasing investment opportunities in medical-specialist care. Because with this, the leaking of care money gets an extra push in the back. As far as investment opportunities are concerned, institutions are already very creative about this. The Princess Maxima Center raised 6 million bonds for new construction. The Adrz financed with crowdfunding a renovation of 11 million. The Bernhoven Hospital raised a quarter of a million people with bonds. So that doesn't require a new law at all. Question: What does the Minister think of the idea that the staff can buy a piece of hospital? The demand for care is growing. We're getting older, we're getting worse. Medical developments make more possible and new medicines are on the market. At the same time, costs should not increase according to the main agreements. Question: Is this feasible? After all, the Central Planning Bureau does not think so. It's really crazy: about 300 spectacular, life-changing and life-saving drugs are coming. The flag could go to the Ministry almost every day for all those lives of people and families that are going to change so spectacularly. What does the Minister do? He's putting a brake on it. The absurd course of things around substances such as Spinraza, Orkambi and Nivolumab is clearly in our minds. Question: Wouldn't it be great to have those beautiful advertising items on TV almost every day by including these 300 medicines directly in the basic package? Minister Bruins wants to save money by moving care from the hospital to the general practitioner. But not only did his predecessors want this and they failed, the number of general practitioners dropped last year and the number of registered patients per general practitioner increased. Question: How does the Minister make this happen? By the way, I read that savings do not have to flow to the treasury at all. I read in the budget that the Minister intends to keep a bit of money behind him: EUR 50 million of the savings on general practitioners, ggz and community care that remains within the framework of his own. Question: Why not everything? Then I come to the lack of care homes and the seven steps of care for the elderly. We had once arranged it so nicely in our country, we had natural transitions from domestic help, neighborhood care, community care and home guidance, the step to the nursing homes and then the nursing homes and at the end the palliative-terminal care. We handled this damn well. Now by closing the nursing homes that no longer exist natural transitions, the elderly almost report themselves dead, almost blind, the stage of starting dementia long past, in wheelchairs but also often already bedridden at the door of a nursing home, while it hasn't been going on for a very, very, very long time. Today's residents have much more complex complaints than their predecessors and their length of stay is getting shorter and shorter. Institutions report us averages of six to ten months. As a result, our nursing homes have become death homes, resulting in a very high workload. Almost all quality indicators, such as malnutrition, dehydration, lying wounds, falls, medication safety, abuse, aggression and drugging can be traced back to too few employees. If you solve the staff shortage, you also solve the workload and the quality problem. That's why this is so important. Somewhere up until 2022, the money will be available to hire enough people. Only then can sufficient quality be delivered in the nursing homes. So far, a third has walked in. That's why those advertising items on TV are so mean. posing with the people who aren't gonna see it anymore. Even in the night, the personnel problem and therefore the quality of care gets out of hand. Question: Are you going to increase the use of night care with the investment of 2.1 billion in nursing homes? If so, how many night nurses will be added until 2022? The previous cabinet also cut back on home care, while they had to cope with the gap that closed the nursing homes. The housekeeping was also halved. The effects of this austerity drive are essentially palpable. High-age people wanted all this for themselves, was the lie. But there's too much trouble at home. Every week, we read the newspaper reports about demented elderly people getting into trouble, sometimes getting lost and sometimes even being found dead, as if they wanted to! Carers had to fill the gap that closed the nursing homes, but recent research has shown that this did not happen. That's not their fault. They simply can't add any more. Everyone did their part. Kids were already helping their parents. And when things stopped going at home, they went to a nursing home. They didn't go to the nursing home for fun. Not only the elderly are affected, children from 5 years of age are required to be employed. Don't pretend this isn't mandatory. If a disabled or chronically ill parent has a minor resident child, there are hours deducted, while these children already do so many extra jobs in the household. These families should be given extra hours instead of less. Question. Are you willing to exempt live-in underage children from the hourly deduction? Fatefully, politics finds out that they have committed a blunder in closing the nursing homes. Are they turning back the blunder? No. They're looking for "something between home and nursing home." The fair story is that the 80,000 nursing homes never come back because the cabinet doesn't have a penny for it. And don't make any commercials about 5 million more. For $5 million, you can only get 125 places back. Of course we all know the beautiful examples like the Knarrenhof, but one swallow does not yet make a summer. The housing market and the healthcare market do not match. The initiatives for "something between home and nursing home" do not form a coherent whole. The plans are set up haphazardly by the country and everywhere one finds that it is expensive, too expensive. A building in which care and nursing can be provided is very expensive. We hear rents of €800 and also €2,800 in the same building to make it affordable, or an average of €1,750 or €1,500. Then it's just for the happy few. If only we still had the nursing homes! But here too, I have an idea. Question. Are you willing to refinance the empty or semi-empty old nursing homes that we see everywhere before the demolition bullets fly into them and convert them into self-contained housing units for which low rent can be requested, so that people with only AOW can also live in the "something between home and nursing home"? The nursing home is also missed because elderly people from the hospital can no longer go to the nursing home to recover. And don't pretend those pair of first-line beds are enough. There are far too few of them. They often cannot go home because of a shortage of district nurses. That's why a lot of people can't die at home. Question. How many first-line beds are there now? On what does the Minister base that this is sufficient? Question. How big is the shortage of staff in the care of the neighbourhood and in the care of the neighbourhood now and by when has this deficit been reduced to zero? Finally, Mr President. Care is human work. Without people, there's no need to worry. That is why I am also saying to the directors: if you fail to fulfil your commitment to reduce staff shortages to zero, you will be responsible for the disaster that is taking place. Then it's your fault that in the summer people living with the visually impaired are out of groceries, people can't die at home, operating rooms are shut down, general practitioners close down, acute recording units close down and ambulances stop pulling out. Final question. With all your sense of advertising, you don't want to be the rulers who are about to go into the history books like the men who were responsible for imploding care and masking everything behind a façade of flashy action plans and nice talk on TV? Don't get me wrong, I want you to succeed. But that does mean that you have to come up with better plans and put your advertising leaflets on the old paper. Care is a serious matter, with serious problems. That doesn't fit advertising boys. We need three honest, competent and involved directors, as well as all those who do the work in the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u4	Thank you, Mrs Agema. Mrs Ellemeet has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u5	Mrs Agema briefly mentioned the first-line residence. She wants to know how many first-line beds there are. We have also set up coordination points to better organise the first-line residence. I'm getting some terrible signals about that, too. In a number of places, the financing of this would not come to an end. Does Mrs. Agema share this concern with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u6	Yes. It used to happen often that after an operation in the hospital, someone could temporarily go to the nursing home to catch their breath and then go home again. There were many more places then than the first-line beds there are now. When I call around and when I look at my inbox, I get the impression that there's just a big hole here, also because people then have to deal with a congestion because they can't go home because there's not enough neighborhood care. I think there is a shortage in both areas, and that is caused by the closure of care homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u7	One of the solutions sought is that first-line accommodation, providing sufficient beds. We are now getting signals that this coordination is not yet getting under way in a number of regions. Does Mrs Agema agree with me that we should ask these rulers exactly what that is about? Does Mrs Agema agree with me that they are ultimately responsible for financing the elv and that we want to know what the facts are about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u8	I think I just asked that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u9	Okay. I found the story about your parents very moving. I'm sorry for your loss. Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Arno Rutte on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u10	Mr. Chairman. If you need care, you want to make sure you have quick access to the right care of a good quality and close. Let's be honest, most people prefer not to get in touch with care at all. They just want to live a life as it can and want to be healthy. But no one gets away from getting in touch with care, for yourself, for your neighbor. Some people are even born with disabilities and will not escape care throughout their lives and will always depend on it. But again, no matter how long and how intensive your care question is, care must be available quickly which is of good quality and which can preferably be provided near you. If we want to do this right, we will also have to look very closely at developments in society. We do not escape a glimpse of what with a chic word is called "demographics," the population composition in the Netherlands. I am not talking about the cultural composition, but purely about the composition by age. If you look at the demographic images at the Central Bureau of Statistics, you'll only see what a huge revolution is going on. In 1950 the population structure was still in the form of a triangle, with all young people. There was a huge broad base of young people who made sense, because it was a post-war period, and it slowly went up in a point. There weren't many old people. In 1990 you see a form of an onion, with a huge amount of people in the working period of their lives, between 25 years and 45 years, and that goes down in a bit. If we look now, we already see a population composition that is becoming more and more a straight column. More and more people are getting old, happy. Fortunately, this is also more and more common in a reasonable health, but still. But there is no such large bulk of working people, and neither is that huge bulk of young people. If we look further at the future, we can see that this picture is taking ever more extreme forms. You could have a very gloomy story about that. You can make that choice. You could have a very gloomy story about an increasing shortage of hands on the bed, making it impossible to provide good care for anyone who needs it. It's possible. If we didn't do anything, it could happen. But I choose not to today. I strongly believe that it is possible to provide better and better tailored care, close to home, preferably at home. I am talking about smart care at home, not with all kinds of revolutionary new interventions, high-tech and more of that, but with simple interventions that already exist at the moment. This is very important because more and more people are concerned with care because of the long-term, most of their lives. They need that care. People become chronically ill as they get older, often with a build-up of complaints. But, as I said before, people with disabilities never escape care. If you are not careful, then the institution of care dominates your life, then you must start to live your life and let what the caregiver needs of you require of you. But what you really want is that people, whether they are chronically ill or healthy, can live their lives, that care is at the service of that life and that they themselves continue to direct it. Let's look at the layout of what we call curative care, especially specialist care, hospital care. It's in a model that's brought us a lot of things for a very long time. It is a model that assumes that you are healthy, until that is no longer the case, until you are faced with, for example, a serious illness or an accident. Then you want to be helped by a very good specialist, who knows a lot about very little. Preferably you'll heal and get back on with your life. That's the base, the primary device of that model. But in a world where huge amounts of people are chronically ill, you have to ask yourself if that always fits. I dare say here: that fits worse and worse. For chronically ill patients, this hospital system is often extremely uncomfortable. It affects their lives enormously and doesn't or hardly help them. Let me give you an example. Hennie, from Zwolle, is suffering from chronic pulmonary disease, COPD. If she has to come to the hospital on her own, it has a huge impact on her life. She's tired of that for days. She won't be able to move forward for days if she's had to make that trip. However, this had to be done regularly, simply because you have to appear on the pulmonary doctor's policy regularly, once every few months, for the treatment and supervision of COPD patients. The sad thing is that that chronic disorder COPD has such a whimsical character that the odds of you being on the policy right when you need care are extremely small, and then I'm gonna say it carefully. But Hennie has recently been given other care: smart care at home. In addition, she fills out a simple questionnaire once a week via her iPad. That questionnaire is being reviewed by a specialist nurse at the hospital in Zwolle. That nurse will contact her at the moment when it's really necessary, if the values are different. That nurse can immediately check with her in the home situation, accompany her when using other medications, can in the same connection switch the pulmonary doctor if necessary and can, if it's even more serious and so it's time that it's necessary, call Hennie to come straight to the hospital. What's the effect of that? Hennie can live her life again. She feels secure. She knows there's care for her when it's necessary, but she also knows that she doesn't have to let herself live through that care. That is a huge improvement in the quality of life. We all know, as we sit here, that this is not an experimental concern. This is already regular care. It may be given, it can be reimbursed and often it is better than regular care. And yet it hardly happens. I say it quite honestly: I find that astonishing. Let me give you another example. Corine is suffering from heart failure. She lives in Emmen. People with chronic heart failure live a life in fear. Something can always happen and you never know when. You can always have a heart attack or something and then you have to go to the hospital with moaning sirens. If you have chronic heart failure, you'll see the same pattern again. There are again regular outpatient visits at the hospital. I'm sure that's all with good intentions, but for Corine, it has a huge impact. Because of her fear of heart failure, she doesn't dare go to the hospital alone; someone always has to go with her. She has to plan it. She has to travel. She needs to park. She's making a lot of money. And again, the odds of her being in the cardiologist's office just when she's in bad shape are extremely small. Then she goes home with the same unrest. The fear that it will go wrong remains. And the chance that she still has to go to the hospital with moaning sirens remains sky high. For her too, there is smart care at home now. And, really, she can live her life again. Her fear will be taken away. She feels free again. She feels secure. In her case, it involves passing values once a day: weight and blood pressure, simple values. A specialist nurse reads the values and immediately switches them off when it's not right. It can therefore take immediate action. In all other cases, she knows that today is going well. And if she's worried, she can still make contact with the nurse and the cardiologist. The same goes for Hennie from the first example. This is excellent care for chronically ill patients who ensure that they can live their lives. That care is there the moment they need it. This is good for their quality of life and good for the professionals who are deployed when they can provide added value. And yes, sometimes it saves money. Mr. Chairman. These were two examples: Hennie and Corine. I wish it was normal for people to feel so secure, feel as safe and be given such good care as in those two examples. That is also necessary if we are to look forward to the future. I just did. Look at 2040. That looks a long way away. It's about the time I'm gonna reach retirement age. It looks like the number of people involved in multiple chronic diseases....... is not one but more..................................................................................................................................................................................... Then 5.5 million people combined diabetes with COPD or diabetes combined with heart failure. 5.5 million! That's almost one in three. These are the inhabitants of Amsterdam, Rotterdam, The Hague, Utrecht, Almere, Leeuwarden, Zwolle and Haarlemmermeer together. That is what we are talking about: not a small development. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that it is very important that all these people should be given at least as good care as Hennie and Corine, not as an exception, but as a standard, so that they can live a good life up to an old age and we can organise it well with each other. For the sake of chronically ill elderly people, I say save them the hospital and give them smart care at home. It'll prevent loss of life's happiness. That avoids waste of professional talent. And yes, it also makes sure that we can pay better for the care. If we let everything go, we'll end up in an unsustainable situation that you can almost sketch. I always think that we have a responsibility together to prevent that. Mr. Chairman. As I said, I am not here to outline solutions which are still in the distant future, which are very complicated or which are not already in the process of being picked up. They're already here! It's all right! One of the biggest problems why it doesn't work is that we have a huge clean-up problem in care. A cleanup problem: there can be something new, it's probably better than the old, but we find it complicated. We have even given it a place in the medical directive, too, so it is good care, because it is all through everything, but yet we find it oh so complicated to let go of the old. There will undoubtedly be great interests to deliver the old, but certainly in these cases this is not in the interests of the patient. Mr. Chairman. That's why we're quitting. Let us make sure that this kind of smart care at home is no longer an exception, but available to any patient who can benefit from it. So let's make it very concrete and just start caring for people with COPD and heart failure. We need to ensure that this care is available to all patients who can benefit from it within three years. Mr. Chairman. I want to make it concrete and give a number of steps with which that could be done. First of all, implement structural medical evaluation studies, especially on smart care at home compared to regular care. Do that! With medical evaluation research you compare all the therapies in the directive and you say on the basis of the data: this therapy is the best! I dare to say here that in chronically ill patients, smart care at home is absolutely the best. But you have to push it. You have to do it. So first of all, medical evaluation. If it turns out that smart care at home is more effective and affordable than the existing way of working, then, secondly, together with the Healthcare Institute, make sure that care stays in the directive and that the old way of working disappears, so that the payment title also disappears. Third. Just look at smart financial constructions, because that's what it takes. That immediately sounds very scary, but when care is provided and people are monitored, it is logical that they should also be paid for it. 'Cause for nothing, the sun's going up. Therefore, delete the old financial method.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u11	I hear Mr Rutte say that he would like to evaluate treatment methods in order to get the best of them. That sounds like something everyone wants. Then, for example, the situation of the MammaPrint comes to mind: a test makes clear in advance whether or not someone needs chemo. This test probably comes from basic insurance, which means that many women may have to undergo unnecessary chemo. You want to evaluate and you want what's best for the patients, I get that. Do you therefore agree with us that preventive tests should also help to ensure proper treatment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u12	I am always very excited about genetic passports and tests that can provide insight into whether a medicine is working or not. The MammaPrint is an example of that, but there are more, there are more in development. At the MammaPrint I find it more complicated, because it has been evaluated by the Zorginstituut Nederland. They're for that. It's very difficult to judge that in the Chamber. They have assessed this and they have expressed their concern: if we apply this test, we cannot rule out the fact that many women remain under-treated and that they may wrongly refrain from taking chemotherapy. I would have liked to have seen a different outcome, precisely because I believe so strongly in the methodology, but I cannot simply ignore the risk outlined here by the Healthcare Institute. So basically I sympathize with Mrs Sazias, but I find it too vulnerable to say here in the Chamber: this test is good and the other one is not. I'm gonna miss the base for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u13	I can imagine that; I have the same. I am not an expert on this either, but there are a lot of experts who warn about this. I would also like to listen to that, because I do not want women to be overtreated, with the enormous burden of chemotherapy and the many times higher cost of that cure. Do you not think that we should remain on the one hand and take that test because there is still so much uncertainty?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u14	I keep to my point that I am very enthusiastic about the MammaPrint's way of working in the base, but with the certainty that there is a chance that you will negotiate and wrongly offer people treatment, I find that vulnerable. At the same time, I would very much like people who have to undergo such treatment to be able, together with the specialist, to make an argumented choice of whether or not to do so. I hope that it will be possible to bring new information to the Healthcare Institute so that it can give a new assessment. If there are really new insights and it can still be admitted, then that is the way to go. I think it is genuinely vulnerable for us to do so through the Chamber. It feels good, but at the same time, I think the risk you're taking is too great. I wouldn't want to take that step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u15	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u16	Mr. Chairman. I mentioned three steps that you could take to structurally give the smart care home a place. Take them into medical evaluation studies, give them priority, make sure that the care that works best gets a place in the directive and a funding title, and dare to say goodbye to the less good care. Thirdly, think about how to finance this in a good and sustainable way. Mr. Chairman. I would like to hear from the Minister for Medical Care how he thinks about the proposed method of working. I would also like to hear what he thinks about the ambition of getting this smart care at home for all chronic patients who could benefit from it, available in three years, preferably for other diseases, for example diabetes. If other things have to be done or steps have to be taken, he can count on the support of the VVD, but we must take steps. Steps to ensure that good care for people like Hennie and Corine is not an exception, but the norm. I will fight for it, fight for smart care at home, preferably with as many people as possible together here in the House of Representatives. Because only if we take those steps will this remain an exception. Then this kind of good care becomes the norm and then we can organise care for the chronically ill patient again and again every time so that he or she is closely monitored and if necessary receive proper care. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u17	Thank you. Mrs Van den Berg has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u18	The idea that Mr. Rutte brings forward is very interesting to me. He also mentions the cleanup operation, where you constantly evaluate. But we take the existing situations as our starting point. I would like to hear if there are any ideas about how you can make the transition from A to B, so from the people who work there, from the buildings that are there now. Because that has an impact on that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u19	I think, above all, that care should be given to those who need care and that we should organise it as well and as smartly as possible. Especially for chronically ill patients, I strongly believe that we can and must organise this care differently. In my opinion, Mrs Van den Berg points out this: if you make the transition from a lot of care in a hospital to more and more health care at home, then you might leave hospitals with real estate problems and the way things have always been done. That is one of the things I would like to ask the Minister about. 'Cause what's the deal with that? Then what are you bumping into? And if there are major blockades, then we'll have to think together about how we can do that. But it does start with the starting point: we think that this care should be organised differently. We should not stick to the wrong funding of care because it would maintain a building or part of that building. I cannot imagine Mrs van den Berg wanting that either, but I am looking for it in that balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u20	No. I thought Mr. Rutte might already have an idea about that himself. But at the request of Mr Rutte, we are also going to hear how that is going to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u21	That's right. The Minister for Medical Care has concluded targeted broad-based agreements. Of course, agreements have been made, for example on transition fees. That all sounds very abstract, but if it is necessary to shrink in some places in the care because you organize it differently... Shrimp also costs money. So you're going to have to invest in that too in order to be able to do so. It's just an idea that can do that. It is complicated to say from this Chamber how we should do that, but I do think it is important that you can come to good agreements in discussions with the relevant organisation, so that care can indeed be organised as we wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u22	I actually have a question about something that I have not heard from Mr Rutte at all. Most Dutch think it is very important that care costs are paid in a fair and just way. The figures, also from the figures we have received from the government itself, show that someone who earns more than 25% of his income in the Netherlands, a quarter, has lost care costs and that someone who earns more than a tonne has lost only 14% of their income. My question to Mr Rutte is: how righteous does he think that is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u23	I am proud that we live in a country where good care is available to everyone and that we do not make an exception to who gets what care. If I have a welfare allowance, if I want to go to a private clinic and my insurance company that contracted the clinic, I can just go there. I am also very proud of the fact that people with the smallest incomes have been able to benefit from the health allowance for many years now in such a way that they are currently paying less than at the time of the sickness fund and that the insured package has been greatly expanded. That's solidarity. That's what I stand for, and I fight for it every day. The fact that, in general, someone who earns more can distribute their costs differently from someone who earns less is normal to me. But I think that we in the Netherlands find an extremely decent balance in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u24	The way things are going at the moment, of course, is not normal. Mr Rutte talks about the lowest incomes. For them there is another care allowance. I am talking about the modal income, which is a quarter of their income spent on health care costs. This compares with 14% for those who have an income of more than a tonne. And why is that? In the system that the VVD wants, it is embedded that the income-dependent premium is actually but very limited income-dependent. It doesn't matter in this country whether you make half a million dollars or earn $54,000: in both cases you pay the same amount of money for the care. And that, of course, is completely unjust. My question to Mr Rutte is whether he thinks it is fair and whether he thinks it is fair to defend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u25	That's the same question you just asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u26	But, Mr President, if I don't get an answer, I'm just gonna ask you the same thing again. Mr Rutte talks about low incomes. I'm talking about modal income. They lost a quarter of their salary on care expenses. That is a lot more than people who earn a ton or more, who only contribute 14%. That is unfair and I would like to know from Mr Rutte how he is going to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u27	As I said just now, for the lowest incomes, and that is a very broad group, we have the care allowance. In doing so, we automatically compensate for any increase in the premium. This means that the healthcare allowance will indeed be phased out at a certain point in time. Mr Hijink is right: that happens around the modal level. That's where people pay the full bounty. It is precisely for that reason that I think it is so very important that we keep fighting every year to make that concern affordable. That premium is nothing but a reflection of the concern we are giving each other. If we want to continue to fight for a system of solidarity, which I believe we have, then you must also ensure that these costs are affordable, precisely because people with a modal income pay more for it in proportion. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u28	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Hermans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u29	Thank you, Mr President. After the story of my colleague Arno Rutte about iPads, monitors and remotely watching, I can imagine that there might be a feeling that technology is going to take over everything in the care, that devices can replace care by people, and that smart technological tricks are a solution to all the questions and all the problems in the care. But that is not the case, and that is by no means what the VVD is advocating. Because the care is and always remains human work. Good and loving care is more than a medical operation and more than the very best nursing operation. Good and loving care, wherever it is, arises in the contact between people: between the general practitioner and his patient, between the nurse and the resident in the nursing home, and between the counselor and the client in a disability care organisation. This contact makes care personal care tailored to your personal needs and wishes. And smart care, as my colleague Arno Rutte mentioned, is care that helps, precisely to make that care that we will never be able to replace with a device even more personal. This contributes to quality of life. Let me give you an example of that, an example of a robot that helps Marieke get through her day. Marieke is intellectually limited and has a lot of difficulty in applying structure in her day. Marieke, you need to take medicine now, you need to cook now, you need to put on your coat, you need to go to work. Those are all moments when, before she could use that robot, a counselor walked into her house. Those are all moments when actually her privacy was compromised. That also gave her the feeling of not being in charge of her life. And now she's got that feeling back from that robot. Moreover, the moments when she is in contact with her supervisor have become much more valuable, because the conversations they are having are really about the things that Marieke is dealing with: about the problems she encounters at work and what she finds difficult. So both for the caregiver, the counselor of Marieke, and for herself, this has a huge impact on the quality of life. Mr. Chairman. Marieke is still quite independent and can do a lot of self-doing, but there are also people who are completely dependent on care and support, and who need care and support for everything every day. Daphne is an example of that. She's severely multiple-limited and can't report anything. How the guidance, her parents and her family read her, is how the care question and her need are answered. But smart care can also have a huge added value for her. Then I think of the example of the smart content material. In it is a sensor, which, via an app, indicates to her guidance or family when it is time to be changed. This may sound very simple and simple, but this makes her change at a time when it is necessary for her, and not at a time when it is scheduled in the schedule of her supervisors. So this also shows how valuable smart care can be, even in long-term care, also for people with such an intensive, continuous care question. Mr. Chairman. However, I can imagine how exciting it is to work with technology: for parents and family members, but also for the people who work in care and, of course, for the people who use it. Because you have to be able and dare to trust that such a device delivers the care and provides the support you need. We all know that technology and equipment may fail, but we need to be open to it and we need to want it, precisely because of what it can get us. I also know it takes time. You have to change your way of working, it has to fit in with the organization and again, there is always some hassle and there are always some start-up problems. In short, it demands something from everyone. It demands openness to change and, above all, persevere, because there is quite a long way to go. I think perseverance is the crux; that's what it's in. It is teeming in the care of the pilots, the labs, the working environments, the workshops, the learning experiments and so on. In fact, the ideas that arise there find their way to the people who can benefit so much. I know that innovation is a try. You try something ten times; nine times it fails, but the tenth time it hits. But also that tenth time is actually made far too little structural, embedded in care as part of the regular care and support process. I wonder what happens then. When I go into it and ask questions about it, there are always arguments about organizational interests and financial interests that stand in the way of that embedding, that guarantee. Those are interests that do not contribute at all to good care, interests that we cannot accept to stand in the way of. I think that's important. That is why, together with D66, we are tabling an amendment to boost innovation in disability care, to help organisations take that step, but under conditions, precisely for the reasons I mentioned. Because these organizational interests, those financial interests, we must overcome in order to achieve that great added value. Doors must be open, knowledge must be shared and research must be carried out. When an idea is proven to be good, working and valuable to the people for whom we do it, that idea must be taken into care as soon as possible and can never be an excuse for one's own organizational interest. I ask the Minister what further steps he can take to really embed these kinds of initiatives and ideas into long-term care, disability care and also into care for the elderly, because the picture I have just outlined of this endless amount of testing grounds is also reflected in care for the elderly. Mr. Chairman. Much is changing and much is being renewed in the care of the elderly. There is also a lot of money available for care of the elderly, for hiring extra people, which is also very much needed, because the workload is high, as Mrs Agema said. But with just more people, we're not here. If more people continue to do the same, nothing changes, it doesn't improve, and we don't change the question of care for the elderly into the question of care, the question of support, the question of the future, while it has to be done in the nursing homes. So there, too, we need to think about smart care. Smart care is not only technology, but also the smart combination of knowledge: of knowledge from the nursing home with knowledge from the neighbourhood. Fortunately, people live longer and longer in their own environments before moving into a nursing home. Especially in their home environment, we can learn how people are in life and what they think is important. If we combine that knowledge with what we know from the nursing home, on the one hand we can boost care at home and, on the other hand, facilitate the transition, the move of people who are about to go to a nursing home. I ask the Minister whether he also sees an added value in exchanging that knowledge between nursing home and the district. Mr. Chairman. Smart care is within reach. We shouldn't philosophize about it, we should just do it. In the meantime, however, we must also tackle and solve everyday problems. Let me give you an example. Last week there was an article in Trouw about Marjon Nieuwenhuizen and her foster son Aeron. Aeron has a serious multiple limitation and is taken care of by the Youth Act. But his foster mother Marjon has to apply for an indication of this year after year. She has to prove year after year that Aeron has an intensive care question, while you can really see from far and wide that he has that care question and that he needs that care and support again next year. So I ask the Minister why all this bureaucracy? Why all these forms year after year, all this frustration and all this time Marjon has to put in this kind of business instead of paying attention to her son? The solution seems so simple: an indication for several years. And yes, I know this is a responsibility of congregations. But let's not keep moving this potato. So I urge the Minister to talk to municipalities about this, to see with them how we can give people like Marjon space and time, but above all how we can remove the frustration about working on those piles of paper every year. Mr. Chairman. There is a group of people in our society for whom taking part independently in our society is complicated, who, without proper care and support, head down into the hectic of everyday life. These people have a slightly intelligible limitation. But with the right care and support, we can let these people live their own lives, we can make sure that they simply participate in our society. However, we must ensure that this care and support is available to them in a structural manner. It is not just concern from the Social Support Act or appropriate education, it is a lot of areas. It's also debt relief, people also have to do with crime, I call living. In short, there is an entire palette. You could actually say that these people need life-wide care and support. There's a lot going on for this group, but I think there's more to it. And above all, it can be better coordinated. We have also agreed on this in the coalition agreement, but if I look now at the laundry list of programmes presented by the Minister in the past period, I think that this group is really getting away with it. So I ask him, what is he going to do for this particular group? Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna finish up. Smart care is not a vision of the future. It's already possible, and it's already happening. In short, we have it within our grasp. Now we have to grab and pack, so that Henny and Corien from the story of Arno Rutten, but also Marieke and Daphne do not continue to be beautiful examples but become the rule. We must ensure that people who need care and support throughout their lives have and feel the safety of that care and support, but we must also enable them to continue to live their lives as much as possible. And in the meantime, we solve everyday problems. The VVD will do everything in its power to get both things done, for all those people in the Netherlands who need care and support today and tomorrow, now and in the future. Care and support that is good and loving, that is available and affordable and adapts to your life, rather than the other way around. Let's work on that together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u30	Thank you, Mrs Hermans. I now turn to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u31	Thank you, Mr President. I admit it immediately: I am not entirely objective, but I dare say that of all the budgets we have, this is perhaps the most interesting budget we are discussing. I will explain very briefly why I believe that is the case. It actually affects all the issues that concern us and the people. People think their health is important, we have to deal with costs that we also have to control, we have to deal with a lot of people who work in care. That's why I love being here. First of all, of course, on behalf of all those people who work in healthcare. I'd like to start with the people. I am already detecting a trend in this budgetary treatment, because a lot of people are also being brought forward. I'd like to continue in that trend. I want to start with Anja. Anja is one of the women, caregivers we spoke to GroenLinks on the canteen tour. She is a household helper in Leerdam and she told us that her employer had not won the new tender. She was allowed to be employed by the healthcare provider who had dragged in the tender in her place. And that is good news in itself, you might say, because that is not always the case. She would only continue to do the same work, but then her income would decline by a third. She would go back from €15 to just over a tenner per hour. A tenner an hour. And yet Anja did it, because she had no choice. Mr. Chairman. Like Anja, there are a lot of people. Mostly women, but of course also men who can barely live on their incomes and who then have to do less because of the calls for tenders. If we are not careful, we will create a group, a new group of workers in care, namely the working poor, the working poor, in this country. We can't let that happen. We also threaten to create a second group in the care, the working stressed, I just call them, because those stories also came along the past few months. For example, of physiotherapists we spoke to, such as a physiotherapist from Hoofddorp, who told us to go crazy from all the different requirements the health insurance companies made to him. With the different accountability forms and the different fees. On top of that, he is forced by the treatment index to further reduce the number of treatments for his patients, even though he sees that the people he treats need more treatments. But he simply can't give it. Mr President, these are just two examples. But what they expose is a very worrying trend. The people who work in care pay literally the price for the competition in care, with invitations to tender and different contracts. Let me be crystal clear. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it is unacceptable that we should set the bill for controlling rising healthcare costs among the people who work in healthcare. It's not supposed to be there. But it is also the harsh reality that it is. Mr President, these leaders must not look away from that. I expect them to face this undesirable outcome of our healthcare system and come up with solutions. The great financial savings cannot be achieved in the first line where we see these examples very often. The big savings in care can be made at the hospitals. But there we see that the insurers are much more difficult to intervene. So they use the space that they do see and experience in the first line to turn the screws on and make the lives of all these important caregivers increasingly difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u32	I would like to come back to the point that Mrs Ellemeet has just raised about the physical therapists. I believe that GroenLinks, as well as the CDA, have indicated in previous debates that we are in favour of a level playing field, including in negotiations between health insurers and healthcare providers. But I have not heard Mrs Ellemeet say what solutions she has in mind, so I would like to know that from her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u33	A very fair question from Mrs Van den Berg. We have, of course, seen among the general practitioners that they have thought about how they can strengthen their negotiating position vis-à-vis health insurers and that they can more often negotiate collectively, together with health insurers about their contracts. We don't see that happening with the physiotherapists. We see that they often have to negotiate on their own or with a small practice with health insurance companies, and negotiating is actually a euphemism for "signs to the cross." So these physiotherapists feel pressured. As far as I'm concerned, we need to look at the possibilities for physiotherapists to start the conversation together about the contracts. If that space is there, then we have to give them that space. If that space isn't there yet, we'll have to create it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u34	Mrs Van den Berg, you want to interrupt, but this is your fourth question. That's what I'm gonna say. I see Mr Slootweg looking a little angry. He still has to be. Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u35	I would have liked to say that it is the hospitals that make savings, but not the first line. There, however, savings are made by health insurers, by too low rates and by unattractive contracts. And let's be honest, the idea of this healthcare system was that patients could correct this unwanted contracting behavior through their policy choice. But we have to admit that doesn't happen. It doesn't happen in practice. That way, the system doesn't work as we had it in mind. With regard to the WMO and the Youth Act, we have to note that procurement does not contribute to improving care. I ask these directors to solve the problems that are now being dealt with by the caregivers. I would also like to receive a response to this request from the directors. Of course, my own group also wants to contribute to solutions. That is why this year I am coming up with an initiative law to abolish the mandatory procurement in the WMO and the Youth Act. My group also wants the Healthcare Authority to monitor and intervene more actively and substantively in the contracting and use of the treatment index in the physiotherapists. In addition, as far as my group is concerned, the Health Institute needs to check that there is no erosion of the quality of physical therapy due to hard and tight contracting. Mr. Chairman. Then there is another great frustration of many healthcare providers: the lack of ICT links between many institutions, for example between a general practitioner's practice and a hospital, or between the nursing home and the hospital. The current ICT systems lead to a lot of unnecessary administration. Often doctors and nurses need to re-enter information into the system because it could not be transmitted digitally, despite the patient's desire to do so. A large part of the administrative burden that these directors want to remove is caused by this. I see the directors working very actively with scrapings and I think we can continue to organise scrapings until we have a way, but if we do not tackle the ICT problems, then we will not tackle the cause of many of them. As far as my group is concerned, it is high time that VWS took control of the digital linking of the care islands that we created. Of course, the patient and his or her consent to the sharing of information should be the starting point of these connections. The main agreements that have been concluded already cover ICT, but are not yet sufficiently addressed. You can also see that there is no connection between the agreements, i.e. between the general practitioners, the district nurse and the hospitals. The conditions for digital transfer must simply be in order. We have to get rid of the transfer by fax, post, CD-ROM or even sometimes WhatsApp. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the healthcare field works under the direction of VWS towards the legal anchoring of ICT standards for 2021. I would very much like to hear from the Minister for Medical Care if he shares this ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u36	Mrs. Van den Berg? Is it okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The CDA has previously argued in several debates the importance of good ICT connections, unambiguous language and computer systems being able to speak with each other. A few months ago I tabled a motion on this subject together with colleagues Aukje de Vries and Pia Dijkstra. A few years ago, GroenLinks signed the Tan motion. May I conclude that GroenLinks finally said goodbye to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u38	What we did not say goodbye to and will never say goodbye to is to put patients' privacy first. The patient's desire to share information must always be the starting point for sharing that information. It is GroenLinks' concern that it should then be possible. We now see that these ICT systems do not connect and that this digital connection cannot be made. That's a condition, and I want to do something about it. In fact, I would ask the Minister to take the lead there and to have it legally anchored by 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u39	Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u40	I get permission every time, Mr. Chairman. So we'll discuss that well together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u41	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u42	The Tan motion was also about the National Switching Point, which the CDA said earlier that one simply has to join, and that it cannot be that cooperation is voluntary. But this means that GroenLinks wants to go along with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u43	We think it is important that information can be shared. You're gonna need standards for that. We need to make agreements with each other so that systems can be connected. We now see that the fact that these systems are not connected together is a earning model for the major ICT suppliers. Each time such an ICT provider has to be hired again, at a high rate, to adapt systems. We believe that it should be made mandatory for ICT providers to connect these systems so that the patient, if he so wishes, can share the information between the general practitioner and the hospital, for example. Mr. Chairman. When we talk about people and care, it's about the care workers, but of course it's about the patient. A large group of people who need care struggle with their care costs. It is important to know exactly how big this group is and how big the problem is. The latest figures we have on people who, because of the cost of care, also avoid that care, date back a while. During a previous debate, I asked the Minister about investigations into this. The Minister then referred to an ongoing investigation, but this does not seem to provide any insight into this issue at all. The investigation referred to by the Minister is not about avoiding follow-up, but about the level of knowledge of insured persons about their own risk. A good debate on care avoidance begins with the facts. Otherwise, it will remain the ideas and suggestions we make. I want those facts on the table. I therefore ask the Minister once again to avoid an independent investigation into care. I'd really like to get a reaction to that. What we already know is that increasing VAT on medicines and tools and on fruit and vegetables leads to health problems. The VAT increase has an adverse effect and will lead to an increase in costs, including in health care, in the longer term. Can these directors explain to me, I ask them, how this measure of VAT increase would not lead to an undesirable effect? I'd like a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. We should do everything in health care to put health and not disease at the centre. A very successful example of putting health at the centre is the lifestyle programme Turn Diabetes2 Om. With this lifestyle program, diabetics adapt their lifestyle under professional guidance. As a result, they are able to reduce their medication and in many cases also stop. This is a major breakthrough. Not only does the adaptation of lifestyle play a role in prevention, but these people with a chronic disease actually heal. Mr. Chairman. Because there is no patent on lifestyle, there is no investment incentive from the pharmaceutical industry to develop this. It is important that the funding of the early research phases for lifestyle medicine is taken up. If the first positive results are there, there will be parties who would like to finance the follow-up research. There are many other chronic diseases that this is also interesting for. For example, cardiovascular diseases, but also rheumatism or bowel problems, for which the use of lifestyle medicine is very likely. That is why, together with the Christian Union, I call for the creation of a research fund for the early research phases of lifestyle programmes. GroenLinks has also tabled an amendment together with the Christian Union for a research budget for lifestyle medicine for the coming year. I would very much like to hear from the Minister whether he is also in favour of these developments. Mr. Chairman. If we really want to make patients the starting point for care, and we say this very often, we have to get rid of the wrong incentives that, for example, reward as many treatments as possible, rather than the right treatment. This good treatment can sometimes be less treatment, but we all know that it is now attractive for hospitals to treat as many patients as possible. This is also often the basis for a contract: price times volume. From the patient's point of view, however, it is in many cases better not to go to the hospital, and to be treated close to home or even at home. Mr Rutte also had some fine examples of this. That should be the starting point for medical-specialist care. But as long as medical specialists still earn as much treatment as possible, the fight against the beer-cake continues to put the patient's well-being first, not the treatment. That is why GroenLinks continues to advocate: all doctors employed. Does the Minister recognise that this is a condition for increasing the level of support to really organise care differently, often outside the hospital? Mr. Chairman. When it comes to the...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u44	Today we are talking a lot about money at GroenLinks. A lot of economics is coming along, but care is also partly about money. Let's be honest about that. Mrs Ellemeet says that in medical-specialist care sometimes the incentives are wrong, and I recognize that as well, and so everyone has to be employed. That could be a solution. But on the other hand, she makes a huge plea for physiotherapists. Doesn't she recognise that if we don't do something about physiotherapists, where of course quality and so on should also be looked at, there could also be overproduction there? Physical therapists are often also companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u45	A very interesting question that reveals how the VVD thinks about how to control costs in healthcare. That bill, Mr. Rutte suggests, we should leave it with the caregivers, with the physiotherapists. If we look at the costs, we know that the major expenditure lies with the hospitals rather than in the first line and not with the caregivers. I would like to say nothing of the fact that we are taking account of this cost control with those health care providers. In fact, we need those caregivers as much as we can. We are already short and we need to ensure that the profession, even in the first line, also of physiotherapists, remains attractive in the future, so that we can provide people with the care they need. We must indeed look at how we can control these costs, but I have just tried to argue that. Then we'll have to look for it in hospital care, where tens of billions go when we know that that doesn't always lead to sensible care. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we need to see how we can organise hospital care differently. This can lead to huge cost savings. At the same time, we will have to do everything we can to get all those caregivers who work hard for us to do their job for all those people in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u46	Maybe I'm not clear and there are all kinds of misunderstandings. You don't have to. I'm very excited about physical therapy and I see great opportunities for shifting treatments from hospital care to physical therapists. That happens more and more often and that is also very good. What I'm calling for is that it's done as if hospital care costs money... that's also so... but physical therapy is free. In hospitals everyone has to be employed, but physiotherapy organisations are small businesses. They're entrepreneurs. Why shouldn't there be a chance of being there in one way or another, let me say very carefully that there is over-treatment, if not in one way or another there is a good consideration of the costs in relation to quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u47	The starting point for GroenLinks is that all people who work in care are rewarded for it fairly. We now see in practice that that fair reward is not there in many places in the first line. This also applies to the physiotherapists through the treatment index used by the health insurance companies to adjust those rates downwards, in order to control the costs. As a result, physiotherapists suffer from this and the profession becomes less and less attractive. Of course, we have to look at what makes sense. This applies to the second line and to the first line. That's what we need to talk about. But it must never be the case that we are squeezing caregivers because we want to control those costs. That principle is not right. This is now being applied in practice, especially in the first line. We need to get rid of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u48	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u49	Thank you, Mr President. I was just about to start care for the elderly. In the care of the elderly we made a hard cut between caring for the elderly at home on the one hand and caring for the elderly in the nursing home on the other. That cut, you might say, we inserted into the system which, of course, shouldn't be there in the care. In fact, it would be very desirable for us to link nursing care more closely with home care. There is still so much profit to be gained in sharing knowledge between the district nurse and the nursing home. We often talk about this subject as far as my group is concerned, in fact, about this cross-pollination. This means that we should also look at the possibilities of using the innovation budget of the nursing home in such a way that the elderly living at home can also benefit from a good use of that budget, so that we can share the knowledge between the people working in a nursing home and the people working in the neighbourhood, for example, so that we can make the transition for many elderly people from home to living in a nursing home more flexible and so that the quality will improve, both for the caregivers and for the people concerned. I would also like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then there's a whole other subject: boss in his own belly. It seems to be an achievement which is no longer under discussion, but which can also be called into question. In this light, my group is concerned about the provision of assistance by anti-abortion organisations. Siriz, an organization associated with the Society for the Protection of the Unborn Child, is now receiving the vast majority of the subsidy to provide advice to women. Now, of course, an organization in this country can campaign against abortion, but not if you are funded by the government. The joint annual plan of Siriz and the VBOK states that both organisations want to actively contribute to reducing the number of abortions. The annual plan also describes how the fundraising, marketing and communication departments of Siriz and the VBOK have been merged and a partnership is being developed with the Scream for Life, the prolife organisation that organizes the Mars for Life. Now the Secretary of State remains firmly behind Siriz. He says this organization is independent enough to offer choice support. I do not understand how the cabinet can maintain that an organisation that deliberately selects its employees on a prolife vision, is funded and partly controlled by the VBOK and distributes medically incorrect information, is independent enough to receive a grant. In this way, the government indirectly dismisses abortion as an undesirable choice. That is a value assessment that, as far as GroenLinks is concerned, must lie with the woman herself. The Secretary of State emphasizes in his last letter that assistance for choice should be independent. I would like to ask the Secretary of State what exactly is his definition of independent decision-making aid. Does an organisation that is administratively and financially dependent on an anti-abortion organisation fit within this definition? Why wouldn't you want to make demands on all organizations to ensure independence?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u50	A question for Mrs Ellemeet is why the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance supported an amendment that regulated Siriz's money a few years ago, but said that money should go to Fiom. Now a few years later, she says, a little radicalized, that there should be no room for such organisations at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u51	I base myself on facts. Those facts are of great concern to me. For example, Siriz shares medically incorrect information with women via the website. Women who are sometimes in a vulnerable position and seek independent help can read on Siriz's website that the number of weeks you are allowed to have an abortion is limited. Or they read that you can't have an abortion anonymously. That is factually incorrect information. We now have this information as a group. We also know that women who seek help in chat conversations are being sent to opt for no abortion. We now have this information and I am very concerned about it. In fact, that information is a reason for me to say that we should not finance it from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u52	I note that the Humanist Alliance set up an action: stop the subsidy for Siriz. After that, some newspaper articles and programs appeared. Siriz indicated not to recognize himself at all: there is a high degree of customer satisfaction and if there are errors in the website, we want to fix them. But Siriz doesn't think that's the case. If the idea is that an organization with this colour shouldn't be there at all, just say so, but don't go under a magnifying glass and try to find all kinds of dots to put a well-functioning organization in a bad light. Does Mrs Ellemeet think that an organisation which considers it important to stress both the self-determination of women and the value of unborn life is eligible for funding: yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u53	I am afraid that Mr Van der Staaij is playing down the fact that medical, factual, incorrect information is being provided to women through this organisation. Those are facts. I don't care who shares those facts, but we were able to read them ourselves on the website. In the meantime, they have been removed from it.That's something to think about, but they were on it. I am concerned that these facts are not right and that these women in a vulnerable position are entitled to independent assistance. It should never be the case that you are told in chat conversations that the risk of infertility is increased after you have had an abortion, or that you are given information that you might have psychological damage to an abortion. These are data that worries me deeply. On that basis, I base myself on facts. I conclude from this that this could not be financed by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u54	I conclude that Mrs Ellemeet is suddenly following a slander campaign by an organization like the Humanist Alliance. I am disappointed that there is no longer any willingness to see how an organisation functions. We also accept that one tries to give choice guidance in a fair way from a different color than, for example, a Fiom. I think that is the key question. Unfortunately, Mrs Ellemeet is ignoring that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u55	I base myself on facts that have come up. I would like all those women who are in this position to be able to base themselves on facts and be supported and advised on facts based on medical science. That's the point. All these women are entitled to that. I am very concerned about this and I think we should do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u56	I think abortion for women is a major event. Mrs Ellemeet indicated that reducing the number of abortions is their goal. Just because it's a major event, I think there's nothing wrong with that. Also someone like Minister Schippers, the predecessor of the gentlemen who are here in trade union K, had the important aim of reducing the number of abortions. Now Mrs Ellemeet has concerns about Siriz's guidance. My question to her is: has she ever talked to Siriz about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u57	Yes, I did. I invited Siriz's director a while ago. I had that conversation, of course. I think it's important to talk to everyone and not just to talk about people. I also think it is very important that we give women the room to make their own decisions, and that women's wishes and considerations are central and not an agenda of an organisation that is at odds with that independent weighting of choice, namely reducing the number of abortions. I have great difficulty with employees being selected for a prolife-confidence. I'm having a hard time with that. Organisations always have values, but it must not be the case that values are at odds with the important principle that all women are able to make their own decisions and are helped properly and independently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u58	Quality criteria for women's choice assistance are currently being developed. Does Mrs Ellemeet agree with me that organisations that meet all the quality criteria, which will include non-directive information for women, should simply have a place in the broad palette of choice-help for unintentionally pregnant women?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u59	I agree with Mrs Fat. I think it is important that we establish the framework. I think that's a responsibility to the government. I do not think that we can leave it to organisations that have their own interests to formulate these criteria. I think that's a task for the government. A very important criterion is that it should not be the case that your mission is at odds with the provision of independent choice support, nor do I find it acceptable for an organisation that would provide that independent choice support to be funded and managed by another organisation that openly conducts an anti-abortion lobby. Those two worlds can't be united for me. Those are tough demands that I will make for a subsidy framework for organisations that would like to offer independent choice support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u60	My last question. Mr Van der Staaij also referred to it: a few years ago we worked together with GroenLinks. Mrs Voortman tabled an amendment on Fiom at the time. The aid for Fiom is decentralised to the GGDs. Siriz is still a nationwide organization. Those two exist side by side. I remember that a plan was presented before the elections by a broad palette of organisations, Fiom and Siriz, but also the GGD and Rutgers, in order to better guide unintended pregnant women and ultimately reduce the number of unintended pregnancies. Does Mrs Ellemeet remember that agenda? And are those agendas that she says: yes, I think that with that breadth of organisations so important that it deserves a place to be implemented and supported by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u61	I think it is important that we use as many organisations as possible to prevent unwanted pregnancies. You don't wish a woman an unwanted pregnancy. We'd rather not. If it does, we're gonna have to help these women. So I'm sure I'll share that mission. I also think that if women are unwantedly pregnant, we should also see how we can help as best we can. I have proposed this together with Mrs Ploumen. What we are missing now in the Netherlands is one place where women can go at night or during the day, even on weekends, with the first questions they have about their unwanted pregnancy. That place is still missing. I would like to add that to what we already have, in addition to the harsh criteria we have to set for subsidies for different organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u62	I do support GroenLinks in her concerns. Of course, I have also read De Groene Amsterdammer and the reaction of the Secretary of State. My hope is that the Chamber will indeed get those quality criteria fairly quickly before 1 December, and that we will still be able to influence them. Does GroenLinks agree with me that it is important that these quality criteria state very clearly that information should be neutral and that women should not be sent? Is GroenLinks like D66 reassured when we get that package from this Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u63	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to go one step further. I just indicated in my speech that I think it is a task and a responsibility for the government to establish this framework. You can't ask organizations that have their own interests to work out those criteria. If that's what Mrs Bergkamp means, I'll share it. In addition, I think it is important that the information is not directing and that there is an independent assistance for choice. "Neutrial" is a difficult concept, but it must be independent. As I have just said, I also think it is important that organisations that provide this choice aid should not be co-financed by other organisations that are openly anti-abortion and lobbying for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u64	I think it is true that this independent information is important. I was also shocked by the news in De Groene Amsterdammer. The value of this is that at least it has become apparent that these quality criteria are not yet in place. I therefore hope that we will be able to work together with a number of parties to ensure that we get these quality criteria in good time. I share GroenLinks' remark that the responsibility for this lies with the government. If we have it in time, we can send as a Chamber on clear, clear criteria, so that hopefully we won't have to have this kind of discussion next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u65	I believe that we agree that the responsibility lies with the government and that we need to set very strict criteria so that we do not give any directional information. Besides, I think it's important that we look at what we're missing in the offer. Mrs Ploumen and I are therefore proposing what is still missing in the Netherlands, and what you do have in Germany, for example, one central information point where you can go day and night as a woman, where you get the information you need and where you can also be referred to an organisation that can more intensively guide women in making that assessment. Mr President, I would almost forget that I have one final point, two in fact. I had another question about access to contraception and abortion for undocumented women. There is currently no regulation for undocumented women who cannot afford the pill or abortion. Now this particular group is vulnerable to unwanted pregnancy. Does the Minister agree with GroenLinks that this situation is undesirable? Is he willing to pay explicit attention to this group of women in the Prosperous Start programme? Finally, Mr President. GroenLinks wants to denounce another worrying development, namely the falling knowledge about sexuality and reproduction, and the not reducing the number of STD infections among young people. In fact, the number of STD infections is even increasing among certain target groups. The Sex report under 25 also shows that condom use among young people decreases in later and loose sexual contacts, allowing for transfer of STDs and HIV and unintended pregnancies. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, there is a task for the government to raise young people's awareness of the risks of non-safe sex. It is important not only to communicate about the risks. This is quite rightly happening now when it comes to sexting and abuse, but it is of course also important for young people to learn about pleasant and safe sex with mutual consent, so that it is not only very difficult. A few years ago we had the positive "free safe" campaign for this, but now the Secretary of State only refers to schools and parents to provide information. GroenLinks wants us to remind young people that safe sex is important and that sex should be and can be fun. We ask the Cabinet to find out how this can be best designed. What can we learn from the "free safe" campaign? What could be the role of social media? And is the Secretary of State prepared to proceed with this? I'd like a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u66	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Care is all about trust, trust that people who are in a vulnerable phase due to illness or old age are in good hands of dedicated nurses and doctors, who put patient care first in everything they do. It is precisely the care for each other that is important, because it is more than just functional. The core of good care is not a product or action, but a meaningful relationship. Man is a troubled being. We live of caring for others and of the care others give us. The CDA believes that care should be looked at from that perspective. Mr. Chairman. I repeat what I've appointed before. The CDA believes that care should be available, affordable and accessible. The Netherlands is highly regarded internationally and I know many personal stories of good and beautiful experiences with caring hands. However, there are many concerns about care, especially in the region. For the future of our country is not only important whether there is concern, but also where that concern is. Outside the Randstad, the negative messages follow each other more quickly: a shortage of general practitioners in Leeuwarden, no night and weekend services of pharmacists in the Hoeksche Waard, a shortage of caregivers in the region, and departments of hospitals closed down in Drenthe. It is time for the cabinet to explain how it intends to preserve regional care in the future. What will the health card of the Netherlands look like in twenty years' time? The accessibility of regional care is a major concern for us, because whether care is close is very important for the viability of a region. The CDA therefore welcomes the Minister's commitment to legally define that there should be a consultation with all stakeholders when a change in acute care is proposed. Does the Minister not agree that, in addition to health insurers and healthcare providers, patients' representatives and regional directors should participate in the Regional Consultation Acute Healthcare Chain? And how does the Minister monitor the orders given to ROAZ? The CDA is concerned about the impact of the new quality frameworks on regional care. Is it true that in the development of the Quality Framework for Emergency Care, gate specialists are being asked, so that regional hospitals are immediately lagging behind? And who is watching over the importance of proper care in the right place when drawing up such a framework? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In the case of regions, we should also consider the special municipalities of the BES islands. Thank you for the letter from the Secretary of State. We look forward to the public health note being drawn up. What is the status of RIVM's research to achieve a full range of population research into breast, cervical and colon cancer, including on the Caribbean islands? Mr. Chairman. Finally, at the point of accessibility. It cannot be that care in the Randstad is better than care in the region. Good care must also be guaranteed in the region. This is very important for the viability of the region. Would the Minister like to have a regional map of where there are deficits now? Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to availability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u68	Mr. Van Gerven, about the previous point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u69	I would just like to know whether Mrs Van den Berg has finished her story on the quality of life in her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u70	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u71	That is what I want to continue with. Mrs Van den Berg called for consultation with regional directors and patients. But then I'll come up with a question. Suppose there is an outcome that is very unsatisfactory. Let's take the issue of closing the clinical obstetrics department at the Bethesda Hospital in Hoogeveen last Monday. A complete drama. That has been discussed, but something is being decided that nobody really wants to live, live and need care. Listen to the obstetricians over there. I have a proposal which I shall come up with in a moment to guarantee the quality of life by introducing a 15-minute standard, the starting point being that no hospital or midwife department should be closed if it is not possible to reach a hospital within 15 minutes. What does the CDA think of that proposal, of that idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u72	We also discussed this with each other on 13 June. We are sure that this will be looked at first. We thought it was one of the major shortcomings of the debate in Drenthe that a decision had actually been taken before consultation with all those involved in the region. But I would also like to give Mr Van Gerven: we are not saying that the world cannot change, but a fifteen-minute standard does not seem feasible to us. We've now agreed on a 45-minute standard. That is also the starting point for future discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u73	Of course, we're not buying anything for this point of view from the CDA. What do you mean the 15-minute rule can't be? Of course you can! That is just a political decision, just like the 45 minutes we have now is a political decision. I'm gonna ask you again. If the CDA is serious, I assume that it wants to ensure and maintain the viability of the regions, then you will have to regulate and act as a government if things do not come about in a way that we all consider desirable? Because everyone hated it:...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u74	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u75	...the health insurance companies,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u76	Mr. Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u77	Mr President, I object to your actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u78	Well, let's talk about that, Mr. Van Gerven. An interruption is supposed to be really short. I am going to watch this very closely, because everyone is starting to take over all kinds of ways and, at the same time, they are complaining that the schedule is constantly changing, which has to do with this in particular. I therefore propose that you simply ask your question and do not make any lengthy introductions, because you have also reserved the necessary time in your own contribution. This applies not only to you, but to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u79	Mr President, I would like to point out that you have severely reduced the number of interruptions, which seriously restricts the conduct of a decent, lively debate. We're talking about the health budget. That is why I am taking the time to clarify what this is about. There's a decent introduction to that. I had my...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u80	Excuse me for a second. I would like to talk very briefly about this. It does not go away from your speaking time. I've known you longer than I've known you today. You are never satisfied with the number of interruptions. That's something I know about you, at least. Of course you want all the space. I'd like to give it to you, too. That's no problem at all. But you really need to use that space by asking short questions and not keeping a very long story. So I'm just gonna keep acting really annoying. It's very annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u81	Mr President, you are measuring with double standards. You shouldn't do that. Really, you shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u82	Now you're really out of line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u83	No, I'm not going too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u84	Yeah, you're really out of line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u85	I can prove that, too. So you shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u86	Do you know what you're gonna do? Show it to me first and then put it in the Bureau. Now you're gonna ask your question. And don't blame me for double standards, because that's bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u87	I've already done that, and I'll show you. To finish my question...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u88	I'm sorry: I'm going to interrupt you, because I just find this disrespectful. This is not how I want to be addressed. I don't want you to address me like this. I give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have said in the debate on regional hospitals: give more space in how care is organised in the region. A good example is what finally happened to the quality framework for intensive care. The intensivist in the region can now also be used on the acute axis. So we want to have much more room for how care is organised, also in cooperation and with other models. In Zeeuws-Vlaanderen I have also seen a nice example of this. The operations have been arranged with Ghent, but the urologist from Ghent is coming to the hospital in Terneuzen for the care and aftercare. In this way, if you place as much of the basic care as possible at the regional hospitals, a regional hospital also has much more opportunities to survive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u90	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u91	The availability of care is under pressure. The number of drug shortages is increasing. Withdrawal periods in the ggz are not resolved. There are more and more people with confused behavior without adequate care. I get e-mails from desperate relatives who rightly worry about their loved ones because they don't get good mental health care. The suicide case at GGZ Altrecht is a very sad example of this. We see persistent problems in the ggz, which means that people have to wait irresponsiblely long for the treatment they need. The CDA believes that the Secretary of State should really take more direction in this. The ggz should also learn to share outcomes of treatments and data. Measuring is knowing and guessing is missing. The cards are now often held against the chest. Only through openness can a learning culture emerge. And it's necessary to get better care. The patient and the client are ultimately the victims of the stalemate that seems to arise here. That is why I have the following questions to the Secretary of State. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of our motion on the regional perseverance force in order to resolve the waiting lists? We now hear that 8 to 24 regional task forces are being set up. That is not creating a perseverance force; we see it as shuffling off. And we're getting a new regional classification. Is the Secretary of State prepared to state that, by mid 2020 at the latest, outcome indicators for the ggz have been included in the quality register in accordance with the terms of the main agreement, and that they are also legally required? The same thing we see happen with the approach of people with confused behavior. After more than two years of talking, the conclusion is that the region is on the move, while one in three municipalities simply doesn't have the place in order yet. Afterwards, however, the winding-down of beds is continued, while there is still no certainty that the outpatient care is in order on time. This is waiting for even bigger problems. When is the Secretary of State really gonna be in charge here? Recently I drew attention to the safety of employees in the ggz. In the meantime, has the Secretary of State talked to GGZ Nederland about a national registration of incidents and use of the isolation cell? Also in medical care we see that availability of care is not always self-evident. To start with the medications: sometimes you have to be lucky to happen to be in the right hospital if you want to use experimental medicines, which can be the last resort for sometimes treated patients. This group is easy to enlarge by using a matching module, so that many more hospitals can participate. Is the Minister prepared to increase the availability of experimental medicines throughout the Netherlands by means of existing solutions? Then, Chairman, another specific group. I'm referring to the long-term shortage of dentists. In my province, Zeeland, dentists from Portugal are now forced to work, while our own training for oral care has become the most overwritten numerusfixus training in the whole of the Netherlands. That simply doesn't add up. Can the Minister have the Spring Note examined the costs of increasing the capacity in dental training? Then, chairman, the affordability. That too is a matter of concern. Affordability is important to maintain solidarity between people. We believe that this affordability can be improved, while at the same time improving the quality of care. The first thing that is needed is transparency about price and quality, starting with health insurance policies. We welcome the zero measurement that the Minister has had carried out as a result of the CDA motion. However, there are still steps to be taken here. In the field of transparency, the practice seems to be substantially different from the picture outlined by the Minister. Websites of health insurance companies clearly indicate what the cost is, but do not show that the same insurance can also be cheaper. For this one still has to go to a comparison site like Independer. Is the Minister prepared to enforce this more strictly, because laws without effect are worthless? The Minister proposes an evaluation timeline which makes it plausible that a substantial change in the market will not be achieved until 2022. Can the Minister make more haste with this and bring the evaluation forward to 2019? After all, health insurers are asked to argue as early as 2019 why a collectivity discount is justified. Mr. Chairman. Affordability also has to do with a level playing field in negotiations, such as for physiotherapists. It appears that to a limited extent there can indeed be cooperation between healthcare providers. Is the Minister prepared to communicate widely on this matter? And then ICT.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u92	Before you continue, Mrs van den Berg, and before I give you the floor, Mrs Ploumen, and before I get it up with you, I would like to read out Rule 57 of the Rules of Procedure. "Interrupts. The President may allow interruptions." This really is a matter for the President. Where is Mr Van Gerven? Here he comes. I'll do it again. Rule 57 of the Rules of Procedure: 'The President may allow interruptions'. This really is a matter for the President. "These should consist of short comments or questions without introduction." Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u93	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u94	No, Mr Van Gerven, Mrs Ploumen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u95	I believe that Mrs van den Berg and the PvdA Group will find each other when it comes to the excessive number of policies that do not differ from each other. I'm against clone policies. I'll be very brief. My specific question to Mrs van den Berg is whether she is. Will she join me in calling on the Minister to ban cloning policies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u96	I believe that last year we indicated that we do not consider cloning policies to be transparent for consumers. We also indicated at that time that we want to give the market the opportunity to understand itself and to take steps in that direction. We see that the number of variations in policies is decreasing. What is also clear from our comment is that we believe that further steps can be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u97	Can such a step simply be banning clone policies? Then the market will know where it is. But even more importantly, all these citizens will know where they stand. It would be really cool if we could do that together, I say through you, Mr President, to Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u98	Last year I explained to Mrs Ploumen's predecessor that we made agreements in the coalition agreement to which the CDA feels committed. That is why we are asking for the evaluation to be brought forward. The agreements already in place should also be better enforced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u99	Please continue, Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u100	Mr President, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u101	No, I won't let you. No point of order! I give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u102	Then I'll move on. I just talked about the physiotherapists. Is the Minister prepared to communicate more widely about the possibilities that exist? ICT can contribute to a better quality of care in relation to e-health. However, in ICTs with regard to information exchange, that is something else so far. It is now extremely inefficient. Many employees are so frustrated by the non-working systems and the large amount of administration that they leave care, while additional people are needed. The approach to ICT therefore has a double positive impact. I also have another example. Hospitals now employ pharmacists' assistants to check what medication people are using when they're brought in. If there were adequate information on this, it would not be necessary. Then we can spend that care on the people instead of on the systems. Actually that is a fourth B: besides available, affordable and accessible the B from the base should be in order. We want the voluntary participation to disappear. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the CDA is deeply concerned about the future of regional care. We can no longer sit back and watch the care in large parts of the Netherlands deteriorate. As far as the CDA is concerned, everyone in the Netherlands is entitled to good care. We will continue to make efforts to do so and we will soon come up with an own-initiative paper to that effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u103	I recognise Mrs van den Berg's concern when it comes to regional disparities. I live in such a region myself. I live in Groningen; Mrs Van den Berg lives in Zeeland. But now I was a week and a half ago in the state-of-the-art hospital in the Netherlands. It's in Scheemda. It is a fusion product that originated after the closure of hospitals in Delfzijl and Winschoten. It is the most modern hospital in the Netherlands. There is no shortage of staff and it works intensively with the UMCG in Groningen, ensuring very good quality care in Noordoost-Groningen. How does Mrs Van den Berg judge such a development?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u104	I think this is a very good example. In fact, we would like to argue for two things. The first is that there is much more cooperation in networks. Working together is simply the core of solutions to keep good care. The second is that it also looks much more clearly at what the complex care is. We hear from various inter-branch organisations that some say even 90% of acute care is acute, but not complex. So it could really be done in a regional hospital. Everyone understands that someone has to go further away for the complex care. It is only a very good development if it is properly concentrated and if there is also a clear division of tasks between the top clinical hospital, as I call it, which only does the complex care, and the regional hospitals that can provide the basic care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u105	I share that entirely with Mrs Van den Berg. That's good. But I'm asking you this: something preceded it before that hospital arrived. There was the situation in which there was a hospital in Delfzijl, which people said should stay open, and there was a hospital in Winschoten that people also said: keep that open; that is very important for the viability and so on. But could Mrs Van den Berg support it in such a situation that it is chosen to close two hospitals and put one centrally in order to maintain care? Or does she say: no, rather than the situation as it was, which was very fragile, but perhaps very good for the viability in the different places? That's the kind of dilemma we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u106	There will always be dilemmas, let's put that first. As a CDA, we have also said: it is not that the world cannot change. However, we believe that much more needs to be looked at when a hospital is closed. A lot of basic care is now being done in top clinical hospitals. That's what makes you wonder if it's always necessary. If a reprioritisation takes place there, it is also much easier to keep a regional hospital open.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u107	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Slootweg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To be real human, it's important that you can mean something to someone else. This turned out to me recently during a visit to Boogh, a center in De Bilt where they provide support to people with non-congenital brain injury. I spoke to a client who had lost a lot of functions due to meningitis. It was only when he was able to help another in a group of fellows that he realized his value. He felt human again instead of patient. Today we will mainly talk about the group that needs care. Much goes well in the care, but some things can really be better. Mr. Chairman. Taking care of each other means wanting to live together. The CDA wants to actively involve young people in society. We therefore welcome the proposals for a social service. Is there also the possibility of fulfilling a social service period with the Defense Department, and also in education, where one has experience with the social internship? If not, can the Secretary of State take care of this? France already has a kind of social service with the aim of building bridges between young people with different social backgrounds. Will this also be realized during the Dutch social service period? Can the Secretary of State indicate how young people who opt for social service get a plus when applying to the government? Mr. Chairman. People who work for the other should not go out of business, but sometimes you lose heart, for example a care cooperative that gets into trouble because one can no longer cross the street with a pan of soup for one of the members. Or when one wants to organize a movie night for lonely elderly people and it turns out that this is thwarted because of Buma/Stemra rights. Can the minister not discuss with municipalities and for example the Netherlands Take care of each other, the umbrella of local initiatives, how rules work for people rather than against people? Mr. Chairman. Some government grant schemes have been transferred to the local government. However, I am receiving signals that many municipalities have deleted the healthcare infrastructure scheme, a scheme that provides technical facilities that will allow people with disabilities to live safely at home for a longer period of time. Only 20% of the municipalities have such a scheme. As a result: more police reports and a call to general practitioners. Can the Minister ensure that this scheme is implemented by municipalities again? Mr. Chairman. A wonderful initiative from society is De Boeg in Groesbeek. Children and their parents are staying in this guest house after a hospitalization. A link between hospital and home, where parents learn how to take care of their own child at home. However, health insurers, municipalities and hospitals feel no incentive to invest in this type of accommodation. This means that funding remains dependent on donations. What can the Minister do to give this initiative a structural financial basis? Mr. Chairman. A group that already lives on the principle of its own direction is that of the residents of the Fokus residences. These are people who depend 24 hours a day on care and support for general daily life operations. They seem to fall between all laws and are now living in uncertainty because the subsidy scheme for this group is ending. The minister would send a letter before October in which he would give a picture of the future of what he wants to do with the arrangement. The current regime has been seared shut, but is this desirable? This may lead to large differences in the possibility of support. Some get this from the Wlz, other residents again from the Wmo and the Health Insurance Act. Can the Minister provide these residents with security? Mr. Chairman. Sometimes things don't work out at home. At the beginning of this month I received a letter from a desperate mother from South Limburg. Her son, a boy with multiple limitations, could not be accommodated in an institution, despite an indication he had. She got support at home, but she was overloaded. The care they received was too little. My contact with the healthcare office showed that there are several dozen of these young people in the Netherlands. There is no place in the current settings for this group. There are two problems: a lack of locations that this group wants to take with a lot of guidance and a lack of expert staff that this group can support. Money isn't the problem in itself, I understood from the care office. What is the Minister going to do to increase reception for multiple people, so that they do not need to be taken home for longer than necessary? Mr. Chairman. Active direction is required in the target transport file. During a working visit to an institution with people with disabilities I saw four different vans and taxis picking and bringing people in half an hour. One had to go to school, the other one came to visit a dependent parent and one third went to spend his day. Transport based on Wmo, Long-Term Care Act, Valys and student schemes, all with different money flows and rules. Before the summer, the Minister had promised a letter looking at greater integration in these modes of transport. Despite the beautiful weather now the summer is really over. When can we expect a letter? Mr. Chairman. The situation of overburdened carers is not a new phenomenon. The Minister has developed plans for it. Unfortunately, too few municipalities have yet to provide a place for recess care or residences. Can the Minister map by region how many respite homes there are for the elderly and also for children with disabilities, so that carers can keep up? In addition, for the 2020 budget, the CDA would like a plan to match demand with supply. The CDA understands that not every municipality can or must have a respite house, but how will the minister promote cooperation between municipalities? Mr. Chairman. Last year we talked about a double care trap: less care but higher own payments when you go from the Wmo to the Wlz. The Minister has taken this very seriously. However, strange situations remain. Let me give you an example. In November, the mother of a letter writer receives a positive indication for the nursing home. There's no place in the nursing home until February. However, the increase in the own contribution Law on long-term care is already in effect as of November, while the letter writer's mother receives three months of home care. I'm not gonna pay for my groceries that I'm not gonna receive until February, am I? Why do we increase, why do we not collect our own contribution only when the care is actually provided? Mr. Chairman. The CDA believes that we should best organise the care locally and nearby. Sometimes there are institutions that have grown so big and are so concerned with so many forms of care that the human dimension is out of sight. In Utrecht Careyn decides to force people from 100 years of age to move to a smaller living space in connection with appointments with the developer. I can imagine the family of residents thinking: if only we had it in our hands here. Can there not be a right to challenge at this kind of institution, as in the Wmo within the Long-Term Care Act? Mr. Chairman. A sum of 2.1 billion has become available for nursing home care. In the programme Home in the Nursing House, the Ministry of VWS states that as of the 2019 healthcare purchase, 85% of these additional resources will go to additional staff at national level. Can the Minister indicate when the residents of nursing homes will notice this? 15% of the extra money can be used by healthcare organisations for other investments, for example for innovations, but what is innovation? Many care institutions are dealing with home automation and robotics, but have no idea that a house two kilometres away is dealing with the same problem, but just with another product or system. The CDA considers it important for homes to share their information and results. Can the Minister encourage nursing homes to share their knowledge? In short, a number of topics. Thanks for the letter on mental care, but is it true that 10 million for 2018 is not being spent and even disappears from the budget? Forensic-medical expertise is important to determine whether someone has had an accident or whether there is abuse. The GGD in Amsterdam has this expertise. Does the Minister wish to promote the availability of this knowledge not only in the capital but also in the rest of the country? The affordability of good care is not only a question for today, but also for tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. Last year, we made a request to investigate long-term paymentability. How's this going? During the General Political Reviews, my group chairman also contributed to demographic development. Can this be taken? Mr. Chairman. To care for is also to remember. In 2019 it is 75 years since parts of our country were liberated from German domination. The CDA would like to see an extra boost, so that memorial monuments can be put in order and schools can also pay attention to this. Is there any willingness to see if additional resources can be made available for this? Mr President, I will conclude. We live in a beautiful country. The unbridled commitment of many people in care, who strive with heart and soul every day, cannot be sufficiently emphasized. In order to get the foundation in order, we expect the rulers to take active control. This is often not about more money, but about harnessing the power that exists in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u109	That was very short about the 10 million for mental care. What does the CDA Group think? I am also very curious about the CDA's vision of how we can ultimately implement mental care properly in our healthcare system, so that everyone can appeal to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u110	I think that, for example, we really need to have another debate on this letter. I myself was a little surprised that the 10 million was no longer available and I would really like to hear the Minister's answer. Did I miss something? That's the first thing. Secondly, what exactly is your weighting, your assessment of that letter? I think it is a very strong point that the last phase of life and palliative networks are being deployed very well. I think that is a strong point in the letter, but I also have the idea that people may also need that spiritual care at other times in their lives. I think last Friday or weekend there was a column in the Volkskrant with a general practitioner from Leiden. He indicated: we, as doctors, find that we can't do very much medically in burn-out complaints and that it doesn't help to give a person psychological help, but that meaning, for example, can play a role in this. I'd love it if that could be caught within that plan, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u111	I have another question about the Wmo. We're gonna get a lower own contribution to the Wmo. Now we hear from a lot of drivers, including a lot of CDA drivers, that they do not really see it as such, because they are going to have lower revenues and they are not being compensated enough by the government. Now I wonder if you get those signals from your colleagues at the CDA and, if so, what you say to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u112	That's a very fair question. I am afraid I have received these messages and signals from our concerned aldermen before Mr Hijink. I understand these concerns, but I myself am very happy that something is being done about this accumulation of own contributions. And that's the heart of it for me. The second point is that compensation is certainly provided and that action is given to municipalities. First of all, I want to see how this perspective of action is used and whether this fear among municipalities and administrators is justified. People are very much afraid that many more people are going to appeal to it. I'm getting signals mostly like: someone already has a support and they're going to be funded by the Wmo in the future. I'm not so afraid of that myself. The moment you're attached to and have a good relationship with your domestic help and there are real possibilities when that's needed, I'm less afraid of that sucking effect. The third point is that we are actually going to evaluate it, because that is what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u113	Finally, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u114	The real issue is a little more fundamental. The question is whether as a government you can decide here that there should be a lower own contribution for all municipalities. Can you determine that without providing the necessary compensation? So if you can say: you are going to do it this way now and if you have to pay a lot of extra money, then you will solve it by making savings elsewhere within home care. Because that is, of course, the risk that we are running through this and your drivers are also very much afraid that that will happen. It is therefore a question of principle: can you decide here, without providing that compensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u115	I would just like to point out that you immediately assume that there is insufficient compensation. I really want to see that compensation isn't there first. There is compensation for this and I think it can be very easy, given the perspective that this care can be organized more closely. Nor is it the case that there are no municipalities that have worked with such a system before. The municipalities that have already done so have indicated that they have not seen any great attraction. I am also actually glad that more people are going to appeal to it, because that is what it is meant to do. You, like a lot of those aldermen, are already assuming overshooting, and I am not so worried about that myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u116	I had a question about the staff shortages to which Mr Slootweg refers at the end. If we don't watch out, we're gonna be 125,000 people short of care. Mr Slootweg asked on behalf of the CDA if the Minister could take more direction. We had a debate on this last week, and the Minister places a great deal of effort on the part of the social partners, on the part of the employers in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u117	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u118	My question is: what should the CDA say about that direction? What are they supposed to mean? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u119	I think, first of all, that we should once again create a picture, especially among young people, that it is extremely nice to work in the care sector, that you can get a lot of satisfaction from it. In recent years there have been a lot of stories about what goes wrong, and I can imagine that young people who would like to choose for care think: pfff, what do I get all over me? The first point that I really think is very important is whether we can improve that perspective of working in the care of the people. That is why I think the plans that have been presented, and where my colleague Mr Van den Berg has made the necessary comments, are promising and I would like to give them every opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u120	Still, I'm going to ask you about what that direction is about. It is about giving a perspective to people in the sector, to people who are already working there and from whom we do not want them to leave, or to young people who are thinking about where they want to have their careers. You often hear that the salary is too low and the workload is too high. Does the CDA now believe that the Minister should take more direction in such important areas than has been the case so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u121	I think you should have that conversation with social partners about how to do that. We can also see, for example, that absenteeism is very high, which also yields a lot. I believe that the basis for that direction has already been set. I hope that it will be dealt with and that it will not turn out to be some obscure conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u122	Thank you, Mr Slootweg. I now give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u123	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u124	May I know what you're up to with that cloth? A demonstration?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u125	I'm not gonna take any action.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u126	That's what I wanted to know. We'll do it outside this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u127	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. There is always enough reason to take action, certainly against some of the measures taken by this cabinet, but I do not intend to do so for the time being. Mr. Chairman. If we are wondering how fairly care is organized in our country, you can measure it on a number of things. One of these things, for example, is: are the costs of care distributed fairly? Another question is: who actually has the power in the current system and how do we deal with the most vulnerable people in our society? I would like to start with that first question, the question of whether the costs of care are actually distributed fairly. The quick answer to this question is, of course, that we have just had that discussion with Mr Rutte. Why is that? This is because the care premium is currently not sufficiently dependent on income. On top of that, we still have our own risk of €385, which is an undesirable financial threshold for the SP, which we do not want. The contents of the wallet should never determine whether or not you get the care you need. Fortunately, there are many ways to make care in our country much fairer and fairer. For example, someone who earns a million now pays as much as someone who earns €54,000. The question is, of course, why is it so arranged at the moment? Why do we all have to contribute to the cost of care, but does that percentage far less apply to the highest income groups? We just exchanged the numbers. A person with a moderate income has lost 25%, a quarter of the income to care costs. A person who earns a ton has only lost 14% of his income to health care costs. My question to the government is: what exactly is fair about that? The SP wants to do something about this injustice. If we distribute the health care bill more fairly by asking for an income-related contribution across the entire income through the employer, we can thus raise EUR 2.5 billion. We can use that money very well to reduce the own risk that all Dutch people suffer from. Of course, everyone knows where the SP is. In the end, we want to get rid of that own risk. It would be very good if we could take a first step in this way. I ask the government whether it agrees with the SP and whether it intends to implement that proposal as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u128	I do have a question about that. I have not seen an amendment on this. I did see a counter-budget from PvdA, GroenLinks and SP. It proposes not to eliminate its own risk, but to halve it. Could Mr Hijink indicate why he has not tabled a counter-budget which completely eliminates his own risk? And how exactly is he gonna pay for that half?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u129	The point is, for now, we've said we're gonna halve it. You all know where we stand: we do not want this whole risk of our own. Only for now we say: let's start with a first step, i.e. halfway, so off €195. How do we finance that? Exactly the way I just said. In the case of high incomes, it's going to apply from €54.000 now there's a top on the percentage of premium you pay through your employer for the Health Insurance Act. That percentage is going to go through the whole of the income. This will bring even more money than halving one's own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u130	Then I have one more question. I listened carefully to Mr Hijink's speech. He argues that the higher incomes currently pay much less to care costs. He's talking about the bounty. This is also about the bounty. But, of course, we also have the tax revenues. And they are partly used with this budget to pay care costs. The cost of care per inhabitant is on average €5,000. All that needs to be brought up. So to what extent does Mr Hijink include in this story the fact that higher incomes also pay more tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u131	Sure, we had a progressive system. It's all getting a little less progressive under this government. And certainly, if it were up to me, we would pay a much greater share of the cost of care more fairly through taxes. That seems to me to be a very good proposal. But for starters, this would be a very nice first step. Because I can't explain to anyone that people who earn a million from €54,000 already don't pay 6.9% through the employer for the Health Insurance Act. I can't explain to anyone why it's suddenly being tucked away for the people who have the most money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u132	Proceed, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u133	Mr. Chairman. This government doesn't want to change anything about the healthcare system. We know what Mr Bruins always says: we are not going to interfere with the healthcare system during this cabinet period. It sounds very confident. He defends market forces and competition with almost religious self-confidence. He says he's going to church now, but I don't think you're learning this kind of thing. The problem is that caregivers face very serious problems, precisely because we have market forces and competition. It has already been mentioned: physiotherapists, speech therapists, dietists, district nurses, everyone has to do with the enormous pressure that the health insurance company puts on the system. And what does this minister say? "If you suffer from the insurer's power, well, you'd better negotiate. It's a market, isn't it? Then go and negotiate with the health insurance company." But that is not possible at all, because for a lot of carers they have no individual position at all to fight against the power of the insurer. The physiotherapists tried. They have said: okay, if we are not allowed to negotiate collectively, we will seek one-on-one contact with the insurer; then we will go one-on-one to see if we can talk about tariffs, prices and conditions. And do you know what they got back? Exactly this. Look, like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u134	Do you know what these are, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u135	Now you really need to stop. I'm gonna suspend the meeting and ask the messengers for this sort of thing... It's just...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u136	No, but, Mr. Chairman, this is an alternative to paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u137	No, no. No, it's just another way of acting, and that's not supposed to be in this room. Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u138	This isn't action. Just a point of order, Mr. Chairman. I could have done this on paper, of course. But it was already on a canvas. It's not an action, it was already on paper...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u139	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u140	It was already on paper. It was on this canvas. I didn't want to do it on paper, otherwise I should have printed 228 A4s. You know what that does to the living climate of orangutans and so on; that is very bad for the jungle. That's why I chose to do it this way. Anyway, what's on this part? It's 228 rejections. 228 rejections of physiotherapists who decided to negotiate one-on-one with the health insurance provider. And do you know what these physiotherapists were told? It is a pity that I cannot roll it out now, you could have read it yourself, but it says on that canvas: "We do not negotiate our contract offer with individual healthcare providers." "We do not negotiate the contract offer with individual healthcare providers." And that's the end of the discussion. I wanted to roll out 30 meters of "no" here: 30 meters of rejections, 30 meters of market failure, which fails. The health insurance guys got 'em in the shit. These physiotherapists and many other professions in the care sector have absolutely no foot to stand on. And I think it was fine to show that, Mr. Chairman. I have talked to a lot of logopedists lately, who have not had a tariff increase for many years. They currently receive €30 for a consultation of half an hour. 30 euros for half an hour, so we still have to get rid of everything: the cost of housing, computers, personnel costs, insurance and pensions. Everything. Everyone understands, of course, that's unfeasible. The same applies to youth care, where rates are also under enormous pressure because, despite calculations of what is a real rate, municipalities simply refuse to pay them. I hope, however, that the government agrees with me that caregivers should be properly paid for the work they do. Give them real rates, if possible within a national care fund, to ensure access and quality of care. I ask the government whether it agrees with the SP and whether this government is also prepared to enforce real tariffs for all healthcare providers in this country, so that we are not going to see the exploitation that we now see, for example, with the logopedists. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet wants older people to stay at home for as long as possible, but in many municipalities we see that the support is reduced bit by bit. What does the Minister actually think about the need for the elderly to go to court to enforce their care? How is he going to prevent much more from happening in the future, when municipalities are not adequately compensated by policies that are being made here? I was just talking about that with Mr. Slootweg. Many older people want to live at home longer, but that doesn't apply to everyone. Recently we discussed the Zorgbuurthuizen. We are very pleased that the government supports the SP initiative for the construction of Zorgbuurthuizen. The Minister is part of his plans and we are also very curious to see what steps have been taken in the meantime. We just want to know when the first kick goes to the ground. One thing is certain: the demand for small-scale Zorgbuurthuizen is very large. Last week, for example, I visited the recently mentioned care centre Tuindorp Oost in Utrecht, a location of Careyn, which has been in the news many times in recent years. It is certainly not a small-scale location, but something very special has happened there in recent years. With the closure of the nursing home, dozens of young people came to live in the vacant houses. This emergency-born project has finally been a very nice solution for young and old. They went out together, sought each other out and got attached. But unfortunately, by now this is all over. The location is sold to a developer and with great urgency young and old are just wiped out the homes. Older people, sometimes even 100-year-olds, like Mrs Piel I spoke to there, have to move twice against previous appointments in the coming period. So you're talking about 100-plus people. Senior ladies have to respond within ten days to see if they want to go to a nursing home, or Careyn will just give up the care. I'd like to hear from the Minister if he thinks this is a way to deal with these 100-plussers. As far as I'm concerned, it's done with the beasts. I really do not think this is possible and I hope the Minister agrees with me. Mr. Chairman. This way you don't have to deal with older people either, because fortunately we also see the other side. Nurses in the neighborhood, human size. I always call that the meatball standard. Why the meatball standard? Because six meatballs still fit into a normal pan. If you have a normal pan, it still fits in a normal dishwasher. So it makes sense: if you keep it manageable, with small groups, you don't need all those expensive extra machines and the front desk at the entrance. The human size, the small scale: that is much better for everyone. The problem is that a lot of people don't get access to such a beautiful health centre at the moment. We have had the debate on this and everyone sees the problem, but unfortunately there is little willingness in this Chamber to solve that problem. Older people don't get the choice now. They have no choice when asking: am I going to a Zorgbuurthuis or another small-scale institution, or am I staying at home? They have to stay home as long as possible. Last month the Minister informed me that he was very enthusiastic about the proposal, but I just want to know from him how we are going to ensure that the group of people who get access to this kind of small-scale care initiatives grows. I do not think it is right to explain that we are all encouraging it here and that everyone can see that there is a big gap, Mrs Agema has also said that between nursing care and staying home longer. Something's got to come up. We all know there are very good ideas about that. We just have to run them now. I want the Minister to give a clear timetable for how he's going to do that. Mr President, one final point. Finally, I would like to mention the group which unfortunately is often forgotten. We have talked about it before, but we have made very little progress. I am referring here to the group of people with severe multiple limitations. Then you really have to think of the most heavy intellectual and physically limited people. Healthcare professionals indicate that this group is currently receiving only the most basic care. Think of food, drink, sleep and wash. For much more there is just no time at the moment, because the rate does not allow it. Researchers have shown that with a little extra effort, a little more hours of care, a little more hours of guidance, this group could be brought to much more and that their quality of life could really be much better. We believe, especially in view of the structural under-utilisation of the VWS budget, that this group should now be included in the report for more care and more hours of guidance. That is why we are asking the government to use EUR 100 million for next year to meet this group of people with severe multiple restrictions. The money's here. So let's bet it on those people who need it the most. I would very much like to hear from the Minister if he is prepared to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u141	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. I now give the floor to Mr Van Gerven, also on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u142	Mr. Chairman. In 2006 I was elected to the Lower House and became a former house doctor spokesperson for health care. The development and preservation of the smaller regional hospitals had and has my warm interest. I visited many hospitals, such as the beautiful Hofpoort in Woerden, the Sionsberg in Dokkum, the Rufaard van Putten in Spijkenisse, the Refaja in Stadskanaal, the Bethesda in Hoogeveen and the hospital Walcheren in Vlissingen. What happened to these hospitals these 12 years? Since 2006, we have had the Health Insurance Act with the competition system. Minister Hoogervorst of the VVD introduced it. All the ministers then walked away with the system. Minister Klink of the CDA, Minister Schippers of the VVD and Minister Bruins, also VVD; they had proved market adepts. It would be better and cheaper and offer more freedom of choice for the patient. But what really happened? It didn't get cheaper. For example, the cost of hospital care increased considerably. In 2005 we spent 16.7 billion, in 2016 it was 27.1 billion; an increase of 60%, an additional 10 billion euros. An increase, also much more than the so-called priceless care of the elderly. Older people's care also grew by 4.7 billion to 17.2 billion; growth by 38%. This system encouraged mergers and economies of scale, thus reducing the freedom of choice. Since 2004, the Authority Consumer and Market received 34 merger applications and only one was rejected. And what are the consequences of these fusion waves? The pattern is that the smaller hospital is emptied in favor of the larger hospital. Hospitals are so under pressure, wards are closed and in the worst case we have an outpatient clinic where the lights go out at five o'clock. Thus the Hofpoort hospital, the Sionsberg and the hospital Walcheren died. The Refaja and the Bethesda are under great pressure now that clinical obstetrics and pediatrics there have been removed by the failing management of Treant and health insurers who do nothing. The population is in turmoil, the vitality is on the march. The closure of clinical obstetrics at the Bethesda in Hoogeveen is directly at stake in public health. Many pregnant people can no longer reach the hospital in 20 minutes in emergency situations, with increasing risks of morbidity and mortality in mother and child. We've got to move the helm around. I don't think that's the only thing; society's done with it. Because the market is failing, strong government action is needed to put an end to the trend of scaling up hospital care. That's why we need a merger stop at hospitals immediately. We also need to stop closing emergency and clinical obstetrics departments immediately. In our report The hospital close by, which I will give immediately to the Minister, we make a number of proposals to correct what has gone wrong in recent years. We propose, among other things, to introduce a standard of living of fifteen minutes. This means that everyone with their own transport must be able to reach a hospital within 15 minutes. If a hospital closes and that leads to a 15-minute delay, then the hospital must not close, it must not merge, and emergency departments and the like must not be closed. This applies once again to midwifery care. Secondly, we propose to introduce a supplement for regional hospitals for critically ill patients. Thirdly, commit yourself to cooperation between hospitals. The academic hospitals, the top clinical hospitals, must work together with regional hospitals, because competition destroys the business and cooperation is needed. The whole sector benefits from a strong network of large and smaller hospitals that work well together. A fourth important point: the management of the hospital must be democratized. In the case of important decisions on mergers and the closure of departments, people from the surrounding area must have the right of consent through the municipality. And on the supervisory board, a representative must come on behalf of the municipality of the adherence area. The staff, both doctors and nurses and patient councils, should be given the right to consent in the case of mergers, conversions and relocations. Through the chairman, I would like to present the report to the directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u143	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u144	I await with interest the response of the Ministers and possibly the Secretary of State to these proposals. A second important point I would like to discuss...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u145	I agree with Mr Van Gerven that these mergers have led to undesirable situations, to large molochs of hospitals, whereas the value of small hospitals is enormous. But I can only hear Mr Van Gerven talking about more cooperation between those hospitals. Does Mr Van Gerven not agree with me that it is important that these smaller and general hospitals should also cooperate more intensively with care in the neighbourhood? And that it is precisely the connection between the hospital and, for example, the neighbourhood care and the general practitioners?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u146	What you bring in, Mrs Ellemeet, is also true. That's right, and that's fine. There must be very good cooperation with the general practitioner, with the first line. Sure. But what I mentioned in my speech and the report is the fact that hospitals are now being closed down or merged. This has everything to do with the competitive system and the market forces that drive up the scale, because it is a way of keeping the population out of the water, while society wants and desperately needs those smaller hospitals. Mr. Chairman. A second important point is the right to care in the basic package. I assume that all the care that is working, which has been proven to be useful, belongs in the basic package. Does the Minister endorse this statement? I have several reasons for this. First of all, a morale. Everyone has a right to good care. A complete basic package without its own risk is the best guarantee that this will also be achieved. It is now the case that people with diseases and limitations are being hunted for additional costs, when they have no choice. After all, they need care. Yet large groups of people refrain from caring for financial reasons. Then you can't and can't. Secondly, if care is good and accessible, society will benefit from it. More well-being and health lead to a healthier and happier society, and it is also good for labour productivity. Therefore, the SP once again advocates that the unholy plan to remove vitamins, minerals and heavy paracetamol from the package should not be allowed to continue. RheumaNederland, representing 2 million people with rheumatic complaints, calls on the VVD, the CDA, D66 and the Christian Union to keep these resources in the package. It is precisely this group that pays the bill for this cut on the package. For the same reason, we also call for physical therapy to be included in the basic package. Millions of people with disabilities will thank you, I say to the Minister. They need it. And what does the secretary of the next heart cry of a medical specialist think? "Yesterday, outpatient clinic. Several people seen after surgery for fractures. Three out of four actually can't afford the necessary physical therapy. The daughter says to her mother, "Come on, Mom. It's okay. Then I'll just pay it, right?' Mother has an AOW and a small pension. The embarrassment and even the shame of Mother is humiliating. And it goes on and on." Thus said this specialist. The same applies to oral care. The Radar programme showed that many cancer patients who have dental problems through chemo treatment do not receive oral care. The column by GP Joost Zaat "Solidary oral care is a basic right" is about patient Robbie, who unfortunately does not appear in the Millions Note. Robbie's a bodily unlucky guy who's got all kinds of shit going on and he's on welfare. But he remains a strong optimist and participates fully, as the Millions Note wants. "Robbie had to pay for clearing his tooth ruins himself, but he was compensated for the dentures. Illustrationist for the insurance company can hardly get it. The word'mouth' in the whole budget now appears to be only in the section on the fight against fraud. A healthy teeth and eating seem like a basic condition for a little participatory life. Can't this oral care just go back into the basic package, or does VWS assume that all dentists are cheating and that we don't have to show solidarity for teeth? Free idea: all the money for e-health to oral care." Says GP Zaat. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. Now many people insure themselves through the supplementary insurance for oral care and physiotherapy. This brings me to a third reason for putting together a fully-fledged basic package, namely the enormous reduction of the administrative burden that we can achieve. In the supplementary insurance, in which almost everyone has been insured for physiotherapy and oral care, the administrative burden is three to four times higher. The proposal to put it back into the basic package would save hundreds of millions of administrative burdens and bureaucracy. Money for care should not go to bureaucracy. Money must not go to bureaucracy but must go to care. If we put all the necessary care in the supplementary package, such as oral care and physiotherapy, back into the basic package, then that would be fair, I ask the Minister. A good basic insurance for everyone is a deeply cherished wish that lives wide in society. Let us make this possible, especially at a time when it is going economically. Then one last, small point. That is a question for Minister Bruins. It's about the Lareb. We have seen in the budget that the Lareb gets the same amount of money and that it goes on for many years. Now, however, we have received a letter from the Lareb stating that they will be reduced in the order of 10%, a few tonnes. I would like a response from the Minister because I assume that is not the intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u147	Mrs Hermans has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u148	I let the story work on me for a while. Let me start by saying that also for the VVD we see that there are things that are not going well or are not going well enough, or perhaps unpack differently than we ever thought of. So where we see problems, we have to solve them and tackle them. However, as I understand Mr Van Gerven's story, he is actually looking at a whole new system. So that is going to mean that we are going to have complex system discussions here again for years, that we are only dealing with ourselves here instead of making care a little better every day. Did I interpret that story that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u149	Mrs Hermans will undoubtedly be aware that we, as SP, are in favour of the introduction of a national health fund. That means a completely new system. As well as having introduced a Health Insurance Act at the time, not us, but your VVD, supported by others, you could also choose to choose another more inclusive and fairer system. The Central Planning Bureau has also shown that this can be done very well. If you want, you can change the system. The current proposals we are making can also be excellent within the current system. I have proposed, for example, that the package should be extended. Because now we pay it in supplementary insurance, and if we expand the basic package and make it full again, that could also be done within the framework of this system. In view of the idea that I often hear of the VVD, namely that we have to get rid of bureaucracy and administrative burdens, I say to Mrs Hermans: if we make it collective, we can save 300 million and people get more care for the same money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u150	Obviously. The VVD is not in any way in favour of a new system, because it means that we are going to spend about ten years working endlessly on ourselves here. We're not helping care with that. In our story, Mr Arno Rutte and I have stated that opportunities for better care, once again, things can be better picked up. That is what we have to do together. I'm hoping for your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u151	That wasn't a question, but you can respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u152	Just a little more time. The reason why we, as SP, want a different system is because the current system is failing. I have also indicated that it has not become cheaper and that freedom of choice is limited. The care is no longer of the people but of the health insurers, of others. Control must return to the people and care must be accessible and affordable for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u153	Thank you. Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u154	Thank you, Mr President. From systems to people: that was the agenda of the previous rulers. Last year I also made a call to the new rulers. The systems are there now, but now the step to the people. We are therefore not waiting for a whole new system to be put in place at the moment. But it is important, because as the Minister said when he took office about reducing the endless amount of forms: not only grandma should notice it, but also the district nurse, the parents of the disabled child, who have to answer for the disability every time, or the woman with a life-wide disability, who cannot be caught in one single health bill. The way in which these directors try to achieve this is through programmes, changing agendas and pacts. The biggest challenge is that the actions are also felt and experienced by people. That is the most important challenge. The gap must be closed, from action programme to people. This gap was also visible in the recently published report of the National Ombudsman: Care for citizens. The Ombudsman notes that the expectation that a more demand-oriented, efficient and comprehensive review of the reforms has not yet been achieved. The people with a question of help would be the victims of that. Cheers, Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u155	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u156	The Ombudsman also identifies five bottlenecks. In his response to the Ombudsman's report, the Minister writes that he recognizes the signals and also sees improvements. I saw some letters about that, but let's just say that some of that was recognized. My question to the Minister is therefore whether he can ask the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau to examine, in consultation with the National Ombudsman for the 2020 budget, whether these bottlenecks have actually been addressed and whether there are any real improvements. Because I believe that these bottlenecks that the National Ombudsman identifies are bottlenecks that are recognizable by a lot of people and are recognized by a lot of people. Mr. Chairman. Recently I made a nice work visit with colleague Slootweg to children's guest house De Boeg in Arnhem. That is a very nice initiative where parents with their children who are sick can stay in a homely environment near a hospital. That is, of course, a very nice initiative. And you see more of these kinds of initiatives emerging. They're some kind of link between the hospital and home. Another good example is the Transitional Care Unit of the AMC in Amsterdam. Both are now in danger of getting a little hurt that there is no structural subsidy or funding for it. There's a lot of co-financing, but they're actually falling apart. My question to the directors is whether they are prepared to come up with a plan to see how we can now find structural funding for these fine initiatives, because I think they fit in perfectly with the government's vision. It would be a shame if we could not go through the opportunities and developments that are now there, because it also means that children, for example, have to stay in the hospital for less time. Mr. Chairman. Another nice recent work visit I made was that at the so-called Latvian speaking time Plus of the GGD Amsterdam. There children, the disabled and the elderly are independently investigated for suspicious injuries. It is really about vulnerable people who themselves cannot express what has happened to them. So that really calls for a specialist to look into that. I was very impressed by that. I am pleased that in the coalition agreement money has also been made available to strengthen forensic-medical expertise. But I would very much like that Latvian speaking time Plus, which is now in Amsterdam, to be funded next year and to look for a different location, so that not only children in Amsterdam can make use of this, but we can take advantage of the good experiences and build that up with each other. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Mr. Chairman. My colleague from the VVD also came up with the subject of the slightly intellectual limitations or Ivb. This is a group that is growing, which is making greater use of care and support, and which often also ends up in ggz, social care and addiction care. But when I look at all the programs that are there, I actually think that they are not getting enough explicit attention. I would therefore ask the directors, particularly the Secretary of State: how can we ensure that this group really gets the attention that belongs there? This is a group of which all kinds of agencies have said again today: we are concerned that they are falling apart. The Ombudsman, the General Court of Auditors and the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau were concerned and concerned. They asked: did we organize it well for these groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u157	I share Mrs Bergkamp's concern when it comes to this group. Well, they've been a little under-explored by now. There is a danger that, if we ask the Secretary of State to pay particular attention to this or to make a plan for it, we will have a separate plan again. Does Mrs Bergkamp agree with me that it would be desirable to see how, in all the plans that we already have, attention can be paid to this group, rather than to recreate a separate plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u158	I should like to remind you of our ex-group chairman's farewell yesterday. He said in one of those interruptions, "We're gonna staple through all those reports." I agree. I think it's very good to see what we've got now. There are a lot of programs. My concern is that this group does not receive any explicit attention in all these reports and change programmes. But I share the view that we should be careful not to reorganise bureaucracies with each other. I am concerned about the specific attention given to these groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u159	Please continue. Oh, Mrs Ellemeet has a question first. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u160	If it's okay, this is the fifth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u161	Sure. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u162	Yeah, you gotta keep up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u163	Oh, too bad, I thought six.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u164	Then I ask Mrs Bergkamp whether she agrees with me that we should ask the rulers to look at precisely how the attention for this vulnerable group can possibly be expressed in all the plans we already have, so that they are included in all the plans that are already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u165	I think I said yes to that. So I'm very happy. Through me again the question: how are we going to organise this properly? So yes, I totally agree with Mrs Ellemeet. Mr. Chairman. Then I move on to another subject, disability and innovation. We have tabled a proposal on this with the VVD. A lot of beautiful things happen when it comes to innovation in disability care, but it doesn't come together; it doesn't land anywhere. That is just a shame, because in the disabled sector too, we can organize a lot of beautiful things with each other that benefit clients and also people who work in healthcare. That is why, together with the VVD, I have tabled an amendment to ensure that we really boost innovation in the disabled sector through an innovation fund. Mr. Chairman. Another important issue concerns residential care initiatives. I believe that we are doing a great deal in the area of care for the elderly, but I find that disappointing again for the disabled. My question to the Minister is therefore whether he would like to see how disability care could be financially supported in setting up the new home-care combinations. There is also an innovation scheme for the Langer Home programme. I would love it if the Minister would come back to how we can finance it. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting on another subject. That's about the ergotherapist. Older people like to direct their own lives and so prefer to stay home for a long time. A person who can play a major role in this is the ergotherapist. The treatment is aimed at re-executing activities in which the client feels limited, and at learning how to deal with the limitation in execution. That's actually helping you help yourself. Since 2005, ergotherapy with ten treatments per year has been included in the basic package. But we know that since 2005, the world has changed: people stay home longer and the demand for care has changed. My question to both ministers, the minister of the basic package and the minister of Langer at home, is whether they are prepared to see how we can deal with it better, because that helps people to stay home longer. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna get to my last topic. There's been a discussion about the subsidy for Siriz. We already had an interrupting debate on that. I share the concerns. The choice of abortion is up to the woman and choice aid should therefore be neutral, independent and not steering. That is why my group from the Secretary of State wants to hear what actually happened. Where did that noise come from? I also think it is important, as I have just said, that the quality requirements will be sent to the Chamber by 1 December of this year, so that we as a Chamber can find some of them. It must be very clear that steering women in such a situation cannot and should not be possible, at least not if you are receiving subsidies from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u166	I very much agree with Mrs Bergkamp, of course. I would like to ask her whether she considers it conceivable that an organisation whose values are contrary to the legal framework in the Netherlands should be eligible for state aid at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u167	I think it's very important to see what happened to Siriz. I totally understand where the question came from. I notice there's a lot of noise on the line. I hear a number of stories here. I would very much like to know from the Secretary of State why, what's going on. I agree with the PvdA: if there is an institution that controls women and does not provide independent information to women who have questions about abortion, then it should not receive subsidies from the government as far as D66 is concerned. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u168	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Raemakers, I shall suspend for five minutes. Is that okay with you? Then that's what we'll do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u169	I give the floor to Mr Raemakers on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u170	Thank you, Mr President. I am honored that from this political season I can also speak about curative care, the cure. And how better to start a new portfolio than with budgetary treatment? So it's a quick start. I would like to speak on behalf of D66 today on four issues: transparency, digitisation, the right care in the right place and psychosocial care after cancer. But before I start with that, here's what I'm gonna do. Dutch care is among the best in Europe and perhaps in the world. We can cure more and more people and people live with it for ever longer. Of course, that's great, but we're also running into borders. The cost of care is increasing rapidly. This cabinet period also increases costs by as much as EUR 16.7 billion. It's our joint mission to control those costs. In doing so, my group believes it is important that the system remains socially and socially inclusive. For example, we choose not to increase our own risk now, and for low-income people, the care allowance increases with the premium. Mr President, I shall begin with my first topic, transparency. For a patient, it must be clear which care is reimbursed, in which hospital and how much treatment costs. We also want transparency with regard to medicines. Hospitals negotiate the price themselves, but how much discount do they offer, remains unclear. That is why I have the following question. Can the Minister explain how much the hospitals have now saved on medicines since the transfer to the hospital budget? Transparency is important in terms of costs, but also in terms of quality. The lowest price is not always the best. If a treatment costs more but also offers a better outcome, it can be worth the higher price. The objective of achieving 50% outcome indicators in 2022 therefore warmly welcomes D66. The patient, young or old, chronically ill or for the first time ill, should therefore be able to make a better decision and also to weigh the alternatives. I would like to hear whether these questionnaires can also be used directly for an individual patient, so that this can really promote decision-making together. And how do we deal with these great differences between different types of patients when it comes to outcomes of care? Think of the great differences between men and women, for example. The long term is also important in this respect. The Federation of Medical Specialists gave an example that in hip surgery the outcome is good for the patient if he runs smoothly again shortly afterwards. That's the short term. But a not well placed hip prosthesis can cause problems again in the future. So how do we deal with that? How are we going to monitor and measure good and bad results in the long term? Mr President, digitisation. Recording quality requires good ICT, also because the administrative burden should not increase further. But that basis is not yet in order. We hear it very often: patients who come to the hospital and have to tell their stories for the umpteenth time, or doctors who receive a patient urgently but cannot access the background information themselves. And sometimes the lack of good ICT leads to duplication. There are hospitals that still use the fax to send medical information. The fax? It belongs in the museum, doesn't it? The cover doesn't go fast enough for us. Does the Minister agree with D66 that ICT is still hopelessly behind? But then what's the solution? An integrated approach is lacking. Rolls aren't clear enough yet. We know the Information Board, of course, but the Minister has also promised to take more direction himself. However, it remains unclear. Is the Minister therefore willing to take the lead in drawing up a more comprehensive plan of approach, for example a master plan as advised by KPMG? I come to the right care in the right place. In order to reduce the cost of care, key agreements have been concluded between healthcare providers, health insurers and specialists for the period 2019-2022. These must ensure that the right care is delivered in the right place. But transferring a patient can of course also be at the expense of one's own wallet. This also applies to non-treatment, which may sometimes be better, also for the quality of life. Research by the Dutch Federation of Cancer Patient Organisations shows that caregivers have difficulty with the option of non-treatment. It also appears that the provision of care in another hospital is still not being sufficiently done. I therefore ask the Minister how we ensure that there are no wrong incentives in the system that hinder care in the right place. I am also curious about the progress of the so-called viewing and listening money. How often is this used? Mr. Chairman. The main agreements are widely shared. It has to stay that way. However, I am getting signals that a great deal needs to be done at the moment. When programmes are set up by the Health Institute, which naturally follow from these basic agreements, I think it is important that they are first adapted to the workplace so that they can be implemented realistically. Can the Minister explain how this cooperation is going now? Can the Minister also provide a detailed timetable in which more specific elements of the main agreements are being implemented when? I conclude with a first-name point for D66: psychosocial care after cancer. Many patients who have had cancer continue to suffer from mental illness. For example, there may be anxiety, uncertainty, poor sleep, fatigue and reduced concentration. You don't always see it on the outside, but it's there. From March this year, psychosocial care after cancer will be reimbursed in the form of a pilot. The general practitioner may refer the patient to specialist assistance when he suspects an adjustment disorder, as we call it. I would like to hear from the Minister how many people are currently participating in that pilot. I'm very curious about that. I would also like to know whether this scheme is sufficiently well known to general practitioners. And can company doctors refer a patient, for example? Is that what's happening? The most important question is what we can do as politics with the results of the pilot. The care in the Netherlands is of a high level, but can still be more transparent, modern and better. I want to work on that in this Chamber for the next few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u171	Thank you, Mr. Raemakers. Mrs. Dik-Faber had a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u172	D66 rightly calls attention to psychosocial care after cancer. That is also a very important point for my group. Now I know that in the country walk-in homes have been realized in a number of places for people who have cancer and for their relatives and also for people who have had cancer. How does D66 assess the situation that this simply does not fit in with our healthcare structures and that funding is simply not properly regulated? Should we not look together to see whether such initiatives can be better implemented in our health and well-being structures?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u173	Thank you for this very nice question. I think it is indeed very important to see that the care landscape changes and that care is provided in all kinds of ways. I think this is a very important issue. For example, when it comes to cancer, I think it's not just about the treatment itself. It is not just about psychosocial care, but also about a piece of residence and about other elements. I think it is very important that we look at this comprehensively. If we could work together on that in the future, we would love to!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u174	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u175	Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday, I was a guest at the Festival of the Uprising, a festival where people around the world have revolted: against political leaders who want to restrict freedoms, against systems that just stand in the way and against oppressive conventions that people want to free themselves from. Mr. Chairman. There was also justified appreciation for the Mad Minas, for the struggle to be boss in their own belly, for the right of every woman to make their own choices about body and life. We owe a lot to the women who rebelled back then. But I am deeply concerned, because our achievements are under pressure. I see women who have made the difficult decision to go to the abortion clinic are being harassed on the doorstep by people who do not respect their choice. I see that women who have aborted their pregnancy find it difficult to speak out because they are convicted and because their motives are questioned. I see a Secretary of State who does not clearly distance himself from a body that distributes medical fake news with state subsidies and who seems to defend that an organisation that provides non-neutral choice aid to pregnant women should simply be subsidised. This shows one thing: we can never take our achievements for granted. We must continue to fight them, a renewed rebellion to secure our rights. Therefore, the following questions to the cabinet. Are these directors directly in favour of women's right to make their own choices in an unplanned or unwanted pregnancy and, if so, can this cabinet guarantee that there will not be a penny of subsidy to organisations that provide sending, non-neutral and medically incorrect information? Can the Minister demonstrate exactly what the grant allocation for 2019 looks like when it comes to providing information and helping with choice in case of unwanted pregnancy? What amount is foreseen for what organisation? Mr. Chairman. If a woman is unwittingly pregnant, she must know where she can go; Mrs Ellemeet has already spoken about this. She must be able to be referred to the appropriate help for her. With Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks, I have tabled an amendment which regulates that this can now be done in the Netherlands, with one telephone number and one campaign to make it known. In Germany, they've been doing that for years. I'd like to hear the cabinet's response. Mr President, another point. Why is it still not settled that women who have been victims of genital mutilation should be compensated for recovery operations? In this way they can become a bit of a boss over their own bodies. Four years ago, that was promised by then Minister Schippers, but it is still not settled. Can the Minister promise that this will happen for next year, if necessary not through the package but through, temporarily, another pot? Can he give an estimate of the financial resources that he believes should be reserved for this purpose? Mr President, that brings me to my next point, the affordability of care. It is foreseen that the healthcare premium will rise again next year; understandably, because with each other we benefit from ever better care, from beautiful innovations, from new medicines. For my group, however, our own risk remains a matter of concern; Mr Hijink also spoke about it. We see that one's own risk is a threshold to ask for care, and the PvdA wants to get rid of it. My group, in the joint counter-budget with GroenLinks and the SP, proposed to halve its own risk for next year as a way to complete abolition by 2020. What I am wondering is this: why does the cabinet not choose that? Do they not see that for many people care is simply too expensive because of that own risk? Mr President, then on the health policies. I spoke to Mrs van den Berg about this. The end of the year is approaching again, and that means that we will be able to choose again what insurance we want to take out. Switching is more than €100 per year, a huge amount. But because of the polisjungle that has arisen, the stress strikes for many people and they don't even start that choice process. That's why three questions to the cabinet. Does the cabinet know whether there are indeed far fewer policies than the 60 000 you hear well last year? If not, how is the Minister going to make comparison and choice easier this year? Question two: why doesn't the Minister choose to have one basic policy offered per insurer? And three: can the cabinet guarantee that all health insurance companies have bought care in time? What measures does the government intend to take if it is not in order again this year? Mr. Chairman. Day in, day out, a lot of people stick their hands out in the care: nurses, caregivers, carers and many more people. Our speaking time here is simply too short to do justice to all those people. Today, I want to highlight one group of all those silent forces, and those are the doctors' assistants. The doctors' assistants are indispensable. They judge on the phone whether people should come to the doctor's office or if they can just take a look. They are doing more and more independent acts, and they are doing so under difficult circumstances. That's how we read this morning that at least 80% of the doctors' assistants are dealing with aggression. I therefore find it incomprehensible that a request from the medical assistants themselves to become a recognised profession has been rejected. For the doctors' assistants, this is an important token of appreciation for their work. I also think I have understood that they do not even occur in that broad agreement which the cabinet is so proud of. I therefore ask the Cabinet to include the title doctor's assistant in Article 34 of the BIG Act, as well as pharmacist's assistant and nurse. I ask the Cabinet to oblige it to register in the Quality Register, and I ask the Cabinet to guarantee the right of medical assistants to follow-up and further training so that they are well equipped to carry out the expansion of their duties. I'd like a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. My group believes that people should be able to be sure of good and affordable care and of the right to decide for themselves about their bodies, about their lives. The cabinet has a great deal to do on both points, but unfortunately so far it has failed to do so badly. I therefore look forward to a positive answer to my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u176	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. Oh, Mrs Bergkamp has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Let me be honest: I didn't have time for it and I know it's a subject that matters to the PvdA as well. That is why I mention the important moment of legalizing the weed in Canada. I hope the PvdA is also curious to hear from the Minister for Medical Care about the situation. What about the law? What are the experiences so far? How's it going? Does the PvdA agree with D66 that it is good to get some kind of update from this minister during this budget discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u178	I very much support Mrs Bergkamp's request, and I would also like to say to her that I think it is a very good idea to see if, in response to the Minister's reply, we can arrange a working visit to resolve perhaps unanswered questions that we may still have. I know that Mrs Bergkamp wants to take the lead there. I look forward with her to the cabinet's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u179	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kerstens on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u180	Mr. Chairman. Be sure of good and affordable care close if your health leaves you in the lurch. At a time when the economy is running better than ever before, it is actually insane that that principle seems to be under pressure, but that is what is happening. This morning, the National Ombudsman, the Director of the Social Planning Office and the General Court of Auditors were jointly called the alarm clock. That's not the least of them. It is a unique fact that these fine people visit the media on the day we discuss the budget here, and they do this for a reason. They point out that the Minister has too little eye for vulnerable people who do not get the care they need. For example, psychiatric patients, demented elderly and young people with a slightly intellectual disability no longer see the forest through the trees, are sent from the locker to the wall and with a bunk in the reed. They end up in a maze. Being sure of good and affordable care close starts with knowing where to be if there is something and, if necessary, being shown the way. Well, this isn't gonna fall out of the sky this morning. The National Ombudsman pointed out this much earlier in a solid report, and the PvdA has already urged people to help find the right way, for example by setting up a one-stop shop per municipality. The minister didn't feel that much at the time, but he didn't come and come with alternatives. That doesn't leave the problem and it doesn't help people, and it has to. As far as I'm concerned, every church itself cares how, with whom and where they help their inhabitants on the way; but that it must and quickly also stands out in front of the PvdA. It is ultimately the Minister's responsibility to ensure that this is done, but it took almost six months for the Minister to respond to the National Ombudsman's report, a report with poignant stories of people who have fallen between ship and ship. In this response, we read that the Minister is going to hold talks over the next six months and to inform the Chamber about the outcome of these talks in the spring of next year. Then we will be sitting for almost a year after the Ombudsman's first cry for help and nothing has happened, except for a few conversations on the left and right and a report. And that was when in that year only more vulnerable people fell between shore and ship. That's crazy, of course. On the assembly line make the blitz with all kinds of plans and then let this go! The most vulnerable people are left to their own devices. I want the Minister to get straight to work on this problem and really get the hell out of here. I will table a motion in the second term to call on the Minister for Emergency and Action. Mr. Chairman. That too little attention is paid to the most vulnerable people seems to be a problem that this minister often suffers from. For example, he seems to be okay with the fact that people with the lowest incomes are the victims of a plan that he wants to go ahead with: the introduction of the so-called subscription rate in the Social Support Act. Friend and enemy point out that this is going to lead to a larger profession of people with a slightly thicker wallet on that Wmo. They're cheaper off. However, the Minister remains deaf to the warning that this will mean that municipalities will have to make cuts elsewhere in the social domain. The people who can suffer that worst, who need it the most, the people with the lowest incomes, are as it is called the scarf. They're screwed. The same is true now that the Minister refuses to deal with the large deficits of municipalities in connection with the growing demand for youth aid. Those municipalities have to solve their own problems. The Minister knows that they are going to do so by making cuts elsewhere in the social domain, which will, once again, affect people with low incomes. And he seems to be okay with that, too. Around youth aid there is a tragedy: municipalities suffering from huge deficits and organisations that are being shipped off with strangle contracts and too low tariffs. The Minister mentions that last part of negotiating games. That is nonsense, even because it is simply established that too little is being paid. Moreover, the Minister seems to forget that there are vulnerable young people among those negotiating parties who simply need help. The Minister must do something, he must accept his responsibility, for example for paying decent rates for which good care can be provided. He needs to come up with a solution for municipalities that are in trouble right now. In the previous debate, I tabled a motion on this subject. The principle of good, affordable care close is still under pressure for another reason. If we are not careful, there is a huge shortage of no less than 125,000 people in healthcare. 125,000! You can imagine what that will have for clients, for patients, for care workers, and actually for all of us. It already is. Surgery rooms are closed, doctors have to choose who they can and who they can't operate, waiting times are getting longer, the workload is getting worse, more and more care workers are falling out with a burn-out, and employees are being lured away from other institutions and bought away. If you ask young people why they don't choose care or caregivers why they leave care, you always get the same answers: too low a salary, too high a workload. And let that be just the two things the Minister does not pay attention to in his action programme Working in Care. That's a matter for social partners, he says. That is something that needs to be resolved in the region. Mr. Chairman. That's too easy. The Minister is responsible. In fact, many parties in the Chamber, as it turned out last week, consider addressing those staff shortages in care his main task. And the Minister doesn't argue with that. The Labour Party therefore believes that the Minister should take more responsibility, not only by increasing the amount of money that money is available, but only, as we saw yesterday, is given to business but also by encouraging good employership or by ensuring that municipalities pay decent rates to healthcare providers, for example in home care or youth care. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. No wonder people feel that affordable and good care close when you need it will come under pressure. I get that. There are too few employees to provide the care needed. People with a minimum income are the victims of new schemes. Vulnerable people no longer see the forest through the trees and fall between shore and ship. And then we hear that perhaps there will be savings on care again, while the trees grow into the sky. That's what we heard in the General Financial Reviews from the coalition. The Minister can do something about that, he has to do something about it. First of all, as far as I am concerned, I would like to say quite clearly here that people need not be afraid of new cuts in health care, but also by taking responsibility for the matters I mentioned. That's his job.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u181	Thank you very much, Mr Kerstens. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The first year of this cabinet is almost over. In the past year, the three rulers on VWS have certainly not been idle. They have sent many action plans to the Chamber which will bear fruit in the coming years. In addition, concrete agreements have been reached on the reduction of healthcare costs, and the Secretary of State of VWS is working hard on a broad-based national prevention agreement. I look forward to the outcome of that. Mr. Chairman. The first topic I want to name is the donor children. Donor children born before 2004 often do not know who their biological father is, because until 2004 anonymous donation was allowed. In addition, mistakes were made in the donor father's register when a new Donor Act was introduced in 2004. Sometimes fathers are listed as anonymous, while they did not explicitly choose for this at the time. For donor children, a DNA study is the only way to find out who their biological father is. For donors this registration of €250 will be reimbursed, but donor children who are part of their situation and who want to know who their biological father is will have to pay this amount themselves. Mr. Chairman. Every child has a right to know who he or she is from. That's important for your own identity, but it's also important for your medical record. There can't be a price tag on that. I have therefore tabled an amendment to compensate for registration in the Fiom DNA database also for children.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u183	A sympathetic amendment. I would just like to ask Mrs Dik-Faber to amend the text a little. Mrs Dik-Faber talks about donor children, and we sometimes also talk about IVF children. As far as our party is concerned, "children are children," however they were conceived. I would like to ask Mrs Dik-Faber if she can talk about children conceived by a donor instead of donor children. I'm just really scared of stigmatizing these kids.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u184	I understand Mrs Bergkamp's question. I would like to point out to her that the Donorkind Foundation was created by the donor children. That's what they call themselves. Anyway, if this can help, I'd be happy to change the text. I'll definitely take another look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u185	On behalf of GroenLinks, too, I congratulate you very much on this initiative. Mrs Dik-Faber also says it very clearly: every child has the right to know who he or she is descended from. The same applies, of course, to adoptive children, and I was wondering if Mrs Dik-Faber would like to take this group too. Should this group also be entitled to this information without paying for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u186	I asked myself the same question, but I think that the situation here is something else. Many good arrangements have been made for parents who gave up their children at the time and wanted to remain anonymous, so that children can find out who their biological parents are when they are adopted internally. International DNA databases are used in foreign adoption. I understand that effectiveness and privacy are not well protected. I think that's a good point. In addition, I consider the responsibility of this government towards children for domestic adoption and donor children to be different from that of international adoption. I apologise, Mrs Bergkamp, but I would like to mention the word. Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands anonymous donations have been prohibited since 2004, but in Spain the anonymous egg donation is allowed. There is even a Spanish commercial clinic that advertises this type of IVF treatment in the Netherlands. Among other things, the Donorkind and Fiom Foundation have already indicated that this practice is highly undesirable. I understand the wish of the child's parents very well, but there is also the importance of the child that must be secured. That is why I ask the Minister what opportunities he sees for action against recruitment in the Netherlands by the Spanish clinic. Mr. Chairman. Something completely different. Next year, the combined lifestyle intervention, the GLI, will be reimbursed from basic insurance. It is a good step that prevention finally gets such a clear place in the insured package. At the same time, curative care still has a lot to gain from different forms of lifestyle medicine. My colleague Ellemeet has already mentioned type 2 diabetes. Good lifestyle recommendations allow people to put the insulin syringe aside. The Christian Union wants more scientific research to be carried out on lifestyle interventions in curative care and to give care providers the opportunity to take steps. Only then will we go from health care to health care. This is not only a benefit for health and well-being, because it can also lead to substantial cost savings. I therefore tabled an amendment together with Mr Ellemeet van GroenLinks. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, we have to note that care in the Netherlands for people with long-term consciousness disorder is insufficient. In recent years I have had a lot of contact with family members and healthcare professionals and in 2016 I was allowed to be present at the creation of the expertise network EENnacoma. That early intensive neurorehabilitation is not accessible to people 25 years of age and older is actually indigestible. Luckily, it's moving now. Recently, the NZa has announced that early intensive neurorehabilitation is medical-specialist care that can also be delivered to adults from 2019. That's great news, of course. Yet not everything is settled. We need a diagnostic center and a mobile team to visit people. And research needs to be done, preferably linked to treatment. And after treatment in the acute phase follows a period of two or three years in a nursing home. That is now under-exposed in the conversations that are going on. My questions. What can the Minister do in this? He's gonna take down some of the pinching structures in the care system? Is he going to drive research into the treatment of coma patients? And what are his plans to improve care for people in coma? I brought a book for the Minister of Medical Care that I would like to hand over to him through the chairman. It's a book with experience stories from close relatives of coma patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u187	I would like to return to what Mrs Dik-Faber said about lifestyle interventions. Firstly, I would like to say that there can be quite a lot of chaff under the choir and that therefore accreditation is very important. However, Mrs Dik-Faber does not think that we should look much earlier at research into screening disease-related malnutrition. Before you start life-style interventions, there is a very large category that now remains. That's malnutrition that actually creates disease.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u188	I have to think about this question, Mr President! I believe that in recent years I have wanted to put the subject of malnutrition on the agenda. I have organised a round table and invited healthcare professionals to come and talk about the importance of good nutrition, especially for the elderly. Older people eat well quantitatively, but not qualitatively. They're not getting enough protein. It is extremely important that we guide people in this. Take, for example, Gelderse Vallei Hospital that has been the frontrunner in that. Due to good food before that, people went into the hospital and got stronger out of the surgery. It'll make them heal even faster. If Mrs Van den Berg asks whether we should be aware of this, I say: yes. I agree, but for lifestyle medicine in our amendment there is also a place of its own. It's about people who are sick and who can heal with good nutrition and movement. Now we're giving pills, and that's actually symptom control, because we want people to be able to heal. And you can!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u189	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u190	Another popular subject of mine: breastfeeding. The cheapest and most effective form of prevention, I say to the Secretary of State. That this is not part of the Prosperous Start program is really a missed opportunity. Is the Secretary of State of VWS prepared to give breastfeeding and lactation care a place in his prevention agreement? Mr. Chairman. Following the departure of the maternity care, mothers receive a visit from a youth nurse, who discusses the questions about the care of the child. If there are breast-feeding problems, the mother can go to the nurse, if trained according to the directive or the nurse can refer to a breastfeeding expert. Here's the bottleneck. Nursing care is available on paper, but in practice this is not discussed in that conversation with the youth nurse. If breast-feeding problems occur after this interview, so if the youth nurse has already left, parents will not find their way to the consultation office. Therefore, my question to the Minister to better embed lactation care in the system of youth health care. Mr. Chairman. Finally there was the Minister's long-awaited letter on mental care. The Christian Union is pleased that this issue is now being worked out. It is a result of Agile ageing, and therefore it is also logical that the focus is on the elderly. At the same time, questions of life can occur at other times in life and it is good to have an eye for that too. Out of the original 35 million is only 25 million left, because 2018 is a lost year. I hate that. There is now only two years left to build infrastructure, training, research and practice. What's the Minister gonna do with the 10 million that can't be spent? If this money remains available for mental care, I ask him. Does the Minister also have an eye for small groups, such as the Jewish community? They do not fit in well with the structure proposed by the Minister, while mental care is important here too. Mr. Chairman. In the end, mental care must be well secured. This can only be done if it is insured care in the Health Insurance Act and the Wlz. I have already referred to motions that this Chamber has adopted, motions from CDA and Christian Union, but also motions from D66 and Christian Union. Is the Minister prepared to include this route in the study of a possible financing model for the future? Mr. Chairman. In the coalition agreement, EUR 2 million has been made available in a structural manner to support national voluntary organisations. However, no funds are earmarked for 2019 in the budget. Can the Minister indicate how these funds are used to support national voluntary organisations such as Present and Humanitas? Through voluntary organizations, I come to the social service of my own accord. We can see that the Secretary of State is working hard on this and with young people. We are looking forward to the results of the 41 pilots started. Can the Secretary of State say anything about the registrations for the second call for 2019? My group is also interested in the implementation of the Segers motion, which calls for well-known ambassadors to be used for civil service. Another very different subject, but also mentioned earlier, has been the new forms of housing. Last year, with broad support, I adopted a motion calling for new forms of housing for the elderly to be included in the Housing Agenda. People want to live independently, but they want to care together. In the meantime, the demand for this form of housing is still many times greater than the supply. This certainly applies to low-income elderly people. What can the VWS Minister do from his responsibility to meet this need for living? Mr. Chairman. This week was in the news that the number of people applying for euthanasia is falling against the expected trend. Speculation is being made about the causes of this decline. Perhaps it has to do with the advance of palliative care; we do not know. Is the Minister prepared to include this decline in the investigation he is launching following the third evaluation of the Euthanasia Act? Mr. Chairman. I'm here to talk about the subject of psychiatry. Experts point to a white spot in psychiatry, which is what to do when people are treated out. These experts advocate a palliative approach for people with untreatable psychiatric conditions. Actually, this is still in its infancy. Therefore, my question is whether the Minister is prepared to start an investigation into the possibilities of a palliative approach in psychiatry. Can this be given a place in the follow-up to the National Palliative Care Programme, on which a motion of Christian Union and SGP was adopted last year? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the subject of waste in healthcare. Unfortunately, the word 'waste' does not appear anywhere in the budget, while there is still much savings to be made here. From conversations with nurses it has become clear to me that the supplier of medicines, bandages and so on often delivers far too much. Large packs are being used, but mistakes are also being made. For example, people need three infusion patches, but they get three boxes of 100 and the manufacturer does not take it back. The bill goes to the patient and the health insurance company has no idea. There was a programme a few years ago to tackle waste in healthcare, but these pilot projects were not followed up. I think there's a lot to gain here. That is why I would ask the Minister to discuss this issue with producers, health care institutions and health insurance companies, and to make an action plan against waste in healthcare and to implement the results. Maybe this fits very well with the green deal he closed last week. Then there is the issue of malnutrition in the elderly, which I mentioned briefly. Last year, during the budget debate, an amendment by Christian Union and VVD on combating malnutrition in the elderly was adopted. The amendment provided additional resources for the Steering Committee. I think it is important that knowledge and expertise of the steering committee be secured in a structural way, either through the prevention agreement or in a different way. I'd like to hear how the rulers are going to take care of this. I also have a question about the UN Disability Convention, which also talks about combating prejudice and stigmatisation. However, no funds are reserved for this in the Unlimited Programme. What is the Minister going to do to prevent stigmatisation of people with disabilities or chronic illness? My final point. Recently I visited Land van Taal in the Cultural Capital of Leeuwarden, to celebrate the World DeafDay. I spoke with the deaf community there about the initiative proposal of the Labour Party and the Christian Union for recognition of the Dutch sign language. I hope that 2019 will also be the year in which we can take a big step together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u191	Thank you. Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u192	Mr President, I am of course very happy with the latter, and I have a very simple question for Mrs Dik-Faber. I hope that the good cooperation we have with the Christian Union on this subject will also be possible when it comes to the position of the doctors' assistants. I was just talking about that. Would she join me in calling on the cabinet to register their profession officially, with everything that goes with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u193	A question via Mrs Dik-Faber to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u194	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I think it's very sympathetic, but I just can't completely oversee it. I just want to think about it a little bit more. I am also very curious about the reaction of the cabinet. But it was a sympathetic plea from Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u195	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Dik-Faber for this. This is the first step that must always be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u196	Thank you very much, Mrs Ploumen and Mrs Dik-Faber. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Akerboom of the Animal Party for her maiden speech. Just installed and immediately before... No, I'm not gonna say anything. Something about lions, I thought, but at the Animal Party, I shouldn't say anything about animals. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Last week was the ruling in the climate case against the State, which was also wrong on appeal from the judge. As a youngest member of this house, I would like to use my maiden speech to call the State to additional action. For the sake of my generation and future generations, make the execution of the verdict a priority! But today we are talking in a different context about the protection of citizens by the government. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the Q fever. The government has been negligent in not providing citizens with adequate protection against Q fever. In fact, Q-fever patients are still not taken seriously. The Q-fever epidemic killed 74 people and made thousands of people chronically ill and disabled. Their lives have been destroyed. The maximum compensation of €15,000 per victim made available by the Minister is a blow to the face of those victims. Especially in relation to the at least 60 million already received by the goat sector. Can the Minister explain how he came to this, and can the victims expect more? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Many health problems can be avoided if people manage to adapt their lifestyle, according to the budget. But we live in an abnormal food environment. Products are too sweet, too salty or too fat. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, there is a task for the government: not self-regulation, but measures! Not words, but deeds. Research shows that government measures work. Even before the British sugar tax was introduced, manufacturers extracted a lot of sugar from their soft drinks. And what does the Netherlands do after seeing that success? The Secretary of State is at the table with the food industry for a preventive agreement and believes the industry's promises when it claims to cut its own meat without regulation. Can the Secretary of State explain why the sector has so much influence? And why does he not come up with settleable objectives instead of these non-binding commitments? Another example. We've been eating a lot more meat for years than is right for us. More and more studies show that a diet with little to no animal products produces a lot of health benefits. According to Harvard research, we can prevent a third of premature deaths with a plant-based diet. With a slaughter tax levied early in the chain, there is an interesting incentive for producers to reduce meat consumption, but the government still refuses to reduce meat consumption with price incentives. A healthier population, lower health care, a cleaner environment and a more stable climate. Who or what will stop the cabinet from doing this? Why is the real price of meat not charged, but does the government subsidise the livestock industry by financing its negative effects from public funds? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party held a motion on child marketing last year, when the Secretary of State asked to wait for the prevention agreement, which would make our group very happy. In 2016 agreements were made with the industry to stop child marketing, but last Monday's Radaruit shipment showed that manufacturers do not care and advertise for children through online channels. In 2018, we can conclude that these agreements are still not being met. Why doesn't the Secretary of State protect children from these manipulative marketing techniques? Mr. Chairman. I'm taking a step towards the seniors, who also have our attention. Last year our motion on bringing pets to care institutions was supported Chamberwide. We are pleased that the Minister has discussed the possibilities with the industry. Clients, volunteers and employees are enthusiastic about the arrival of animals, but some institutions still raise thresholds. Where the scheme has been relaxed, the elderly are visibly less lonely. That is why we ask the Minister to take a facilitating role and to encourage the sector to do so by actively providing information and enabling a pet to be brought in. Finally, Mr President. Today's young people are no longer driven away by fossil beliefs about self-regulation and sponsoring misbehaviour of the livestock industry, a sector that is experiencing its last convulsions. The future is plant-based and animal-friendly. I would ask the Secretary of State to make an active contribution to this in the interests of animals, nature, the environment, climate and not least people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u198	Thank you very much, Mrs Akerboom, and thank you for your lovely speech. After the last speaker, Mr Kuzu, I should like to say that we have three more speakers who have been suspended for congratulations. Is that okay with you? You did very well. You looked like you've been walking this for years. Well done, thank you very much. You'll get flowers from Mrs. Ouwehand. That's very sweet. I now turn to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u199	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to the budget treatment for 50PLUS, I would like to focus on the gap between independent living and the nursing home, the money that is leaking out of care and a number of specific measures that are needed for the elderly. 50PLUS welcomes the extra money and the attention that goes to the nursing homes. That was necessary, but we also realize, and above all, that 90% of the elderly live independently at home and that the closure of the nursing homes has created a huge gap between well and safe independent living and that same nursing home. The consequences of that hole are becoming more and more apparent. Loneliness and malnutrition are a few examples. I will come back to that later, but there are more: the extra pressure on hospital care, which is also much more expensive and the emergency services. In addition, a quarter of the municipalities do not pay for youth care and the Wmo. So there's really something that's not going well. Does the Minister agree with us that that hole is too big and that we should do something about it? Last week, the minister was shiningly in the picture with the new Council of Elders. But is he really going to listen to Gonny de Vries from that council, who says that the elderly are well cared for, but the day doesn't come through? If we want to keep care affordable, we need to create new forms of clustered living, where older people can live together and share facilities. This should not be reserved for people with a well-stocked scholarship, but above all accessible to everyone. A number of people have already mentioned this in their contribution. There are already good initiatives, but they are not yet accessible to people with little money. Of course 50PLUS also wants care to remain affordable and accessible to everyone. That is why we are also pleased that a ceiling is being set for the Wmo's own contribution. However, the cost of care for many people is still too high. 50PLUS has included in the counter-budget that its own risk should be further reduced. We show that we can do that too, starting with €100. Several organisations, such as the Consumers' Association and the ANBO, offer collective health insurance and show that there can be a significant reduction in the premium. So that's possible, but if you don't have the money to join, you're out of the boat. Why can't we get a discount like that for everyone? I'd like a response from the Minister. The functioning of the market in basic health insurance has not brought us much good. Money that now goes to advertising, that has to seduce people to switch over, overhead and beautiful offices are part of the high cost of care, while the people who have to do it are cut off. What does the Minister think of the action of the physiotherapists, the logopedists and the dietists who complain about strangle contracts that prevent them from doing their job? In any case, we would like to know how much money is actually leaking out of care. On the one hand, profits made by obscure business structures and the hiring of expensive interim managers, on the other hand, through the entire procurement circus. We want an overview of the profits made in healthcare. In a previous debate, on social affairs finances, the Minister admitted that we would be terrified if we were to face the costs of procurement in the care sector. At that time, the Minister indicated that he did not intend to take stock of the public procurement costs of the municipalities, because that would be too difficult. We believe that this inventory by the Association of Dutch Municipalities is not at all difficult to make, but that the results and possible follow-up steps are too difficult to find. I am therefore once again asking whether the Minister can ask the VNG to take stock of the costs of public procurement in the care of the municipalities. People have a right to know where their care money is going. 50PLUS wants an in-depth investigation into the leaking costs in healthcare country. The flows of money in the social domain are not clear at all at the moment. And what does this cabinet do? This is going to put the money for the social domain to the municipalities simply into the general benefit. This makes it even more unclear and invites your municipalities to cut back on care, leaving money for other schemes. As long as decentralisation is not yet on track, as long as there are still major problems in youth care, in the elderly and in the ggz, we think this is a very bad plan. The question that arises from this is: how do we get and keep an eye on the flows of money within the social domain? Of course, 50PLUS is also aware that care costs continue to rise and that, if the risk has to go down, the money has to come from somewhere else. Then prevention comes around the corner. There is still much to be gained in this area. 50PLUS still believes that malnutrition is such a major problem that it should have been included in the prevention agreement. One in three elderly people receiving home help is malnourished with the nasty and costly consequences of that. And then we don't know anything about the elderly who don't have home care. By cutting up the care it is sometimes impossible to get the right care together. Due to the closure of neighbourhoods and neighbourhood centres in recent years, there has been a shortage of meeting centres in the neighbourhoods. "We're not going to invest in stones anymore, but in activities" is a stupid motto. You just need a place to stay, a physical place in the neighborhood where you can meet. If you don't know each other, you don't take care of each other. At such a physical meeting place you can maintain your social network, where you might find the neighborhood nurse and there you can organize daily spending, for example together for dinner. Because eating together helps against two things: against malnutrition and against loneliness. The programme one against loneliness calls for attention to be paid to the establishment of the physical infrastructure. That's a lot more than a bench in the street. Does the Minister agree with us that the closure of the neighbourhood centres was not a good idea? The same programme, one against loneliness, says that we need well-trained professionals to fight loneliness. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, this is not in line with the tendency to transfer the remaining neighbourhood centres to volunteers. Local cuts in recent years have been at the expense of thousands of jobs, including local directors, construction workers and neighbourhood managers. These are just jobs that could be filled very well, for example by older unemployed people. But we've made the system far too complicated with all those bulkheads. In doing so, the different laws are not compatible, with a great deal of bureaucracy. Caregivers now spend 35% to 50% of their time on administrative obligations. According to experts, this indicates a high inefficiency of the system. Can the Minister respond to that? Now, Mr President, I have a few specific points. Specifically, 50PLUS wants a vaccination programme for the elderly, including against shingles and pneumococcal disease. Every year between 3,000 and 6,000 elderly people end up in the hospital with pneumococcal infection. Last February, the Health Council gave the opinion that elderly people between 60 and 75 years should be vaccinated against pneumococcal disease, but there is no budgeting for this. Severe disease burden can be avoided with pneumococcal vaccination in the elderly. The Minister shares the opinion of the Health Council that this vaccination should be equally available to all elderly people who wish to use it, provided that it is feasible and affordable. When will we know? Can the Minister now give a commitment that the pneumococcal vaccination for the elderly will in any case be included in the vaccination programme? A number of parties have also mentioned oral care. Poor dental hygiene also has many consequences and is associated with other serious diseases, such as cardiovascular diseases and diabetes. But basic care is not covered by basic insurance. It is incomprehensible that the basic insurance for oral care should not be reimbursed, but rather the specialist care in the event of escalation. Those could be really ugly things. An infection from the mouth, for example, can beat the heart valves. I don't have to tell you how many times more expensive an operation is at the heart. Oral health is estimated to be moderate to poor in 300,000 elderly people. One of the main reasons that older people don't go to the dentist is a financial one. Older people should be more encouraged to go to the dentist and become aware of the risk if they do not go. 50PLUS believes that basic care should simply be in the basic package. I know that this oral care in the basic package costs 1.2 billion a year, but it does not include all the specialist care that is not necessary because dental hygiene is well maintained. We need to be sure of that first. Every five minutes, a 65-year-old comes to the emergency room with a fall. One of the best ways to prevent a fall is to keep older people moving. There are courses in which older people learn how to fall, but much more needs to be devoted to this. And that could be very well organized, for example in that neighbourhood center. Another cause of falling is medication use. Many elderly people use chronic multiple medications at the same time, which can interact with each other. This causes dizziness, falls and hospitalization. An annual medication assessment should also be covered by prevention. General practitioners, pharmacists and the elderly should be more aware of this. Mr President, I shall conclude. I'll have a few minutes left. I am sorry that Mrs Agema is not here, because I would like to draw attention to bacteriophages. I know that the Minister is strongly committed to the growing problem of antibiotic resistance. The World Health Organisation is also very concerned about this. The Erasmus Hospital is now in the process of setting up a centre of expertise in the field of bacteriophages, and is asking for the support of the Chamber but also of the government. 50PLUS welcomes this initiative and therefore asks the Minister if they can count on your support. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u200	Thank you, Mrs Sazias. I think Mrs. Agema's still here, 'cause I can see her stuff. So she'll be right back. Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u201	Madam President. If you're working in health care and still have a lot to do in this debate, then you might think: why do I hear so little about the huge staff shortage that comes towards us in healthcare? Why do I hear so little about the workload that is so enormous? That's the way it goes sometimes. The answer is relatively simple, but you have to know: because last week there was a very big debate on this very important subject. It has been said by almost all the parties: it is an incredibly great priority. I would also like to mention that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u202	Until 1:30 in the morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u203	Until 1:30 in the morning, yes. In this context, I would like to come back to one point to underline it. In that debate I was talking about the re-registration of nurses, nurses and so on, which is sometimes also a threshold for re-enterers. Then the Minister asked for an example if I came across that. Today I received an e-mail in which someone writes: go back to studying at an older age, take exams, take a theoretical exam while it is a practical course, the cost of the exams; all this does not help to get me back into health care; is there no other possibility, via an entry course through the new employer? I'd like to put that question back in the cabinet again. Mr. Chairman. It has also been said today: let us not have all kinds of system discussions, but just solve practical problems. That appeals to us as a SGP, but these bottlenecks must really be solved within the system. We are starting to get a little despondent on certain points that are so persistently coming back. That's stuck to the role of health insurance companies. Last year, in the case of a motion, the Chamber asked that no more budget ceilings be applied in the case of care purchases for palliative terminal care, so that people can always die at the place where they wish. There was broad agreement between the government and the Chamber on this. Yet we hear over and over again that there are empty beds, but cannot be filled because an insurer cannot move is to make budget available. Also in the district care, in the ggz and in hospitals, rigid budget ceilings sometimes create situations in which the freedom of choice of the citizen comes into play. What effective measures do the directors intend to take to ensure that those health insurance companies also focus on those political choices, which are sometimes made very clearly united and consistent here? Or else maybe that system just needs to be adjusted a little bit, if it doesn't help. Mr. Chairman. In recent months, as a group, we have been in contact with several desperate parents of young people with autism who need very intensive guidance, but cannot go to any "normal" care institution for that. One of these guys has been in a closed youth care institution for almost a year now, because even the last care provider where the guy would go very, very maybe couldn't stand to see him in the end. I hear from institutions that the remuneration is not sufficient, that the expertise requested is not available and that the legal frameworks sometimes stand in the way. These are problems in disability care and ggz, but also in youth care. My question to the rulers is therefore whether they want to investigate how care for these children, who do not seem to fit in any booth, can now be best organised and funded, how to ensure that care providers are able to offer these young people a chance. I would like a concrete response to that. Mr. Chairman. Last week, a compelling opinion article by Berna van Baarsen, a member of a review committee in the context of euthanasia, appeared in which she put a sharp finger on the testing practice of euthanasia. I quote: "Legal arguments have been weighing more and more heavily, while the moral question of whether good has been done by killing is becoming more and more snowy. This is all the more worrying because discussions and decision-making are not sufficiently transparent, making shifts in the judgment and interpretations of the law unconductable." In short, this was another cry from someone who spent ten years as an ethicist on a review committee and knows what she is talking about. She says from her own experience: it is really opaque and elusive. Does the Minister consider this to be a worrying situation with the SGP? And is he willing to take measures to make the testing practice more transparent, for example by having it recorded at committee meetings, allowing external control of judgements and having all the judgments of the Regional Review Committee published euthanasia? At least those were concrete suggestions that this ethicist made. Mr. Chairman. In the context of the more ethical issues, I would also like to talk about the subject of Siriz, which has already been raised in the course of a debate on interruptions. I have already indicated that we really regard it as a hex that is going on against Siriz, an organization that is committed with heart and soul to help unwanted pregnant women in need. Research also shows that the satisfaction of the women who have received help is high, but that abortion activists, sometimes disguised in a doctor's coat, are trying to put Siriz in an evil light in every possible way. I therefore call on the Secretary of State to keep his back straight. I have two specific questions. Does he guarantee that mandatory information on alternatives to abortion, as laid down in Article 5 of the Law on Abrupt Pregnancy, will be part of the quality requirements he is going to set for elective interviews, and that only organisations that comply with them will be eligible for funding? It surprises us that, despite the clear legal framework, this is not always the case in practice. And is he going to make sure that the inspection of this legal requirement will be supervised by any organization that conducts elective interviews, both in abortion clinics and in specialist decision-makers? Mr. Chairman. It's gonna happen to you. Someone looks in the stroller and asks the father or mother: such a child, you don't have to let that be born anymore? Unfortunately, this is not a fictional example, because such negative perceptions of people with disabilities are common. Internet fora is full of them. Editors in the newspaper don't take a page for the mouth. We regularly hear from parents of children with disabilities that they are regularly confronted with this. I have also always noticed that in the discussions in the Chamber, even by rulers of any colour, this is always withdrawn. They say: no, we do not want that; that is not the intention of prenatal screening or anything like that. Meanwhile, this is where those parents in society run into. This also sometimes has to do with the image of life with a disability, which is often not at all in keeping with practice. So my question to the Minister is also how to contribute to a positive campaign on life with limitations, which stops unjustified negative imagery. Mr. Chairman. I come to one final point: prevention policy, including a healthy lifestyle. I hear a lot about a fight against smoking and tobacco. Fine, a good thing. But why do I hear the Secretary of State and other rulers far less about the harmful effects of drugs? Take party drugs alone. They have become increasingly popular in our society without convincing action. In the meantime, nuisance and crime are increasing enormously. Is the government prepared to fight more firmly against party drugs such as ecstasy, amphetamine and cocaine, both in terms of information and effective action against those party drugs? And does the Secretary of State acknowledge that the plans currently under way regarding the legalised supply of drugs to coffee shops can contribute to the standardisation of drug use? What is being done to prevent that very image of "it's all normal"? Mr President, I should like to conclude with that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u204	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u205	Mr President, thank you very much. It is up to me: even if it happens every year and we get used to it, it is still a shame that the cost of caring for people increases this year too. This year's health insurance premium will increase by €124 and will go to €1.432 per year in 2019. And the cursed own risk remains with the towering amount of €385. For a family, these amounts count double. Then here's what we're wondering. This cabinet has nice talk about the affordability of care for everyone and shows off that we have the best care in Europe. But is that also experienced by the people who receive an envelope in the mailbox each month with the health insurance bill? Mr. Chairman. There's too much market thinking in care. Care is not a market where there is a perfect balance between supply and demand. However, it is in the genes of these directors to approach care as a market, in which health insurers in particular are free to make huge profits. How fair is it if people have to cough up the health insurance premium monthly and then see in the news that health insurance companies have suddenly made substantial profits, millions of profits, billions of profits? Doesn't this feel harsh, I ask the Minister. How much should society contribute to the profits of health insurance companies? And how is the cabinet going to ensure that the extra money released by this cabinet is actually used for care and does not end up on the health insurance companies' annual accounts as a profit from results? Mr. Chairman. During the previous reign, there was a debate on the ban on the distribution of profits by health insurers. Even though the VVD wanted this very much, fortunately a majority in the Chamber stopped this bizarre idea. However, the question is justified as to what happens to the profits of health insurers. Doesn't the Minister think we should just give this money back to the people who make that money hard? Mr. Chairman. I'll take a look back in time. When the Health Insurance Act was introduced in 2006, there was the vain belief that increased market forces in care lead to increased competition and a decrease in prices. And the quality would also improve. Market forces would make care cheaper and better. But that promise was never fulfilled. What did happen in the meantime? In reality, very care-offering Netherlands was contracted and pressed into a straitjacket. The value for money would be looked at, but health insurers have not done so or have not done so. They have not invested enough in knowledge and skills to be able to properly assess healthcare providers. Health insurers also have no interest in keeping an eye on that. Why has this situation with non-functioning health insurance companies been able to thrive for so long? That's because the bounty-payer will pay after all. The health insurance is compulsory and the choice is limited. And every time there's a discussion about the system, it gets knocked down because we don't have a system discussion. Twelve years after the Health Insurance Act, we really need to renew the healthcare system. Breaking down a discussion doesn't help. Mr. Chairman. In recent years, things have also gotten worse. Although there are many labels, there are actually only four major health insurance companies left. There is therefore a care oligopoly, a market form with a limited number of parties that can divide the market together. The Schiedam health insurance company DSW always determines the health care premium in September and the others follow this example. This is actually an implied price agreement of an implied cartel. I would therefore like to ask the Minister if he would ask the Authority to investigate the infringement of the prohibition of cartels in the Competition Act. I'd like a response. In recent years, the ACM has focused on mergers between hospitals, but it could have looked more closely at the acquisitions and mergers between health insurance companies. Does the Minister agree with DENK that Dutch people are being held hostage by a health insurance cartel? Then there's the question of how to break this cartel open. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. It is downright scumbag how much profit the health insurance companies have made over people's backs, but we still have a sector in this sector that can do some of it. Those are the pharmaceuticals, Big Pharma. Together they make a profit of EUR 1 billion a year, not to mention the high salaries and bonuses. Then I wonder: does patent law not conflict with the right to health? Because the production costs of new medicines are secret, but the profit margins are public and they break new records over and over again. Big Pharma has a firm control over the pricing of new medicines and the institutes that are researching them are too often paid for by the industry itself. But the worst thing is that the figures are not made public and therefore cannot be verified. So we are forced to believe the pharmaceutical industry on its blue eyes. It is scandalous that pharmaceutical companies should be given every opportunity to abuse their negotiating position vis-à-vis healthcare professionals and patients. How high can the profits of a company that helps to save lives or improve the quality of life? What is socially responsible, I ask the Minister. US research shows that no such high profit margins are achieved in any other sector. That is why we call for access to the costs and revenues of pharmaceutical companies. The financial arrangements are closed; no more secret deals that cannot be controlled. Mr. Chairman. I'll continue with my own risk. Where the own risk was €150 per person ten years ago, it has now risen to €385 per person since its introduction. It is a huge annoyance for many people who need care, because there are also strong indications that the high own risk leads to care avoidance. People no longer dare to go to the hospital and delay treatment as long as possible. This makes their complaints worse and in the long term the costs to society will only increase. It can't go on like this anymore. It is our moral duty to prevent people from taking care at all times. Care should no longer be seen as a cost, but as a return. The own risk should therefore be immediately eliminated as far as DENK is concerned. The cost of this is estimated at EUR 3.8 billion. That is a considerable amount, which we can cough up by maintaining the current system with four tax brackets based on the rates in force in 2017. This means that we must refrain from introducing the two-disk system into box 1. On this point, we are preparing an amendment. Mr. Chairman. For a long time, DENK has made a point of cultural sensitivity in the care, taking into account the wishes and demands of people in this country. I know that this Minister, unlike the previous Secretary of State, is not such a fan, since he has already advised against the motion that we tabled last year. That is why we are making two other proposals. What could help is giving care a boost. This could be done, for example, by giving long-term carers a partial exemption from the gift and inheritance tax. I'd like a response from the Minister. What is also possible is an increase in the voluntary exemption of €1,700 per year for carers. I'll ask the Minister if he feels that way. Mr President, one final point: language barriers in healthcare. As of 2012, costs for professional healthcare interpreters will no longer be reimbursed. Patients should learn Dutch, Minister Schippers was of the opinion. Although DENK agrees that the language barrier should not be there, we realise that in practice caregivers run into this problem. Research by the Dutch Institute for Health Care Research commissioned by the KNMG showed that three times more professional interpreters are needed than are used in practice. Enough reason for DENK to plead for an interpretation fee. I'm gonna ask the Minister if he feels like this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u206	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u207	If it's all right, the cabinet will answer tomorrow. For this moment, I thank everyone and close the meeting. Congratulations to Mrs Akerboom, of course!
