ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u1	The next item is the merger of the municipalities of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer (34805). I would particularly like to welcome the people in the public gallery. I understand it took you almost three hours to be here. I hope you can get home in time, too. Of course, I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u2	I give the floor to Mr Bishop as the first speaker. He is speaking on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u3	Thank you, Mr President. A sensitive point: reclassifications. At least that doesn't come out of every reclassification, but the first one we're talking about this week, it does. This is the reclassification of the municipalities of Groningen, Ten Boer and Haren. Sometimes it is debated for so long that it creates a kind of self-contained argument: we have been talking about it for so long that we need to go through with it now. Yes, but then you have to ask the question whether this reclassification in this form is justified. In any case, it is not the line the SGP generally chooses. Before I go into the present proposal concerning Groningen, Ten Boer and Haren, I will briefly outline the principles on which the SGP is based and on which the SGP assesses whether a reclassification in this form is desirable or not. Firstly, it is an important consideration that a reclassification can intervene very deeply in local society. That is why we are in favour of a reclassification from the bottom up. There's no blueprint for a city. It is precisely in order to give voice to local democracy and to local society that there must be room to make their own choices. That is the first consideration. The second recital is the aspect of voluntaryity. There must be sufficient political and social support for this. It is not impossible for municipalities to combine and form a good unity, but in practice you often see that such a forced marriage never really leads to a solid unity. Voluntaryity is an important condition for a successful unity. The third point is that, in our opinion, a larger scale is not automatically better than a smaller scale. It happens regularly, we see that all of them come along who tell us how big the scale of a municipality, province, region, parts of the country or you name it, should actually be. But we don't really believe in that. If an administrative unit functions well in practice and is financially sound, there is no reason in itself to resort to forced scaling. Such an administrative unit can choose for itself. A disadvantage of such an increase in scale is in any case that the distance between citizens and government is increasing. Financially, it's not always better either. Larger municipalities also have their own costs. The alleged advantages of merging over cooperation are not always convincing from the point of view of the municipal administration. It seems a lot that they are mainly larger connections that prefer to sit around the table with fewer drivers. So a larger scale is not automatically better than a smaller scale. The fourth recital: only in the case of substantial problems in one or more municipalities can there be a reason to deviate from the principle of voluntaryity. It's always a no-unless principle. It may happen that the municipality does not want to merge, but at the same time does not function financially or otherwise properly or does not do what it should do as a municipality. In that case it is desirable to reorganise a municipality, of course after an attempt has been made to get things on track. The final point is that resolving a regional task must not be a straitjacket, but an incentive for joint action, either in the form of cooperation or in the form of a merger. But here again, this must have support in the environment itself. Mr. Chairman. For us as SGP, these five points constitute the framework from which we assess various legislative proposals. I would like to hear a reflection from the Minister on these general principles. In the coalition agreement, it seems that this cabinet has more than previous Cabinets, more than in the past, with the exception of Rutte II, with even more tough language in the coalition agreement, is moving towards compulsory union as soon as there is much cooperation. That in itself is a bit of a questionable starting point. It's also a bit of a circular reasoning. If you don't work together, you're incompetent and you have to rethink. If you do work together, you've worked together so much, and you might as well redo. That kind of reasoning is a bit in the coalition agreement. I have that feeling, but I'd like to hear the Minister's reflection on it. I am sure she is going to say that this is a false observation, but nevertheless I appreciate her response, including the five general points I have just formulated. Mr. Chairman. Now for the proposal on the municipalities of Groningen, Ten Boer and Haren. This process has been going on for years. We all know from the political developments the cooperation model Groningen-Ten Boer, where Ten Boer actually took services from Groningen. Although legally and politically she remained an independent entity, she became officially part of the Groningen apparatus. This has been used as a model by many municipalities. Other models have been developed, reflecting the model Groningen-Ten Boer. The conclusion is actually that this whole process leads in an organic way to the consideration of whether it makes sense to remain an independent municipality as a Ten Boer. The conclusion is: we are ready; we must and can take the step to become part of Groningen. Or rather: to bring together Groningen and Ten Boer in a legal and political sense. Mr. Chairman. That's a process that comes from the bottom up. I think that's a good way to look at reclassifications. The problem is, of course, in Haren. In Haren, there was no trial against Groningen. The question is whether it is really necessary for Haren to be part of this reclassification process. From the many conversations we have had with various stakeholders, including with residents from Haren himself, we, the SGP, have got the impression that there are no substantial problems in this municipality. Of course things can be better. Improvements and ambitions have been formulated. But our analysis is that there are no insurmountable problems. We have not been able to observe that the municipality cannot actually do what it has to do. There is insufficient administrative and public support for this choice. One of the arguments in the discussion is the financial position of Haren. In the years to come, however, the necessary measures have been taken to get the finances in order. Can the government explain why this would not be sufficient for a future perspective in which, at least for the medium term, there is no need for a reclassification obligation? Can the government also tell us about the burden burden in Haren compared to the city of Groningen? Is the Citizen's Committee's argument that there is much less burden now and therefore a significant increase in reclassification, both for residents and for companies? I would like to hear the Minister's response to that. Where the city of Groningen had to deal with major financial problems for many years, Haren's finances are largely in order. Honesty commands that this is just to be seen. Why are finances placed under a magnifying glass in the context of a reclassification procedure with a small municipality and are they hardly assessed by a large municipality? Can the government indicate on the basis of which data the situation of Haren should be assessed as poor? Mr. Chairman. The SGP has the clear impression that there is a particular need for opportunities for merging with the municipalities of the province of Groningen. In the proposal of the province, and with that of the government, it seems that it is thought that Haren is in the province of Groningen, so we should not look beyond the provincial border. That was also the subject of the work visit we made as a committee. That question has been put literally. My question to the Minister is: why hasn't there been a better view over the past few years of working together beyond the boundaries of the province? And if there is to be a merger, orientation or reclassification that does justice to the different types of areas, such as urban Groningen and Assen and between them in the more rural Haren and Tynaarlo, why hasn't that been explicitly weighed as an option against other options? Is that just because the county line ran through that? I'd like to hear the motivation for that. Mr. Chairman. Honesty commands that the politically changing circumstances in Haren have undoubtedly not done the position of this municipality any good. But when Haren and other municipalities in the region are looking for ways of working together more intensively, a good regional policy can also be developed. This municipality, of course, has a responsibility to implement carefully the development of the Better Haren approach. Mr. Chairman. Therefore, the conclusion of the SGP is that this reclassification as far as Haren is concerned is unintentional, unfounded and undesirable. We support the idea that Haren should be removed from the bill. That gives even possibilities for Groningen and Ten Boer to jointly choose the form of a slight aggregation. That, in turn, is a glimmer of light and saves a lot of hassle over other procedures that may have to be followed. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u4	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's the first time the minister's been in this Chamber for a reclassification. I'm curious, and I wish her every success. It's not my first time. I've been doing this for 15 years. I have looked back: I have seen 161 municipalities in the First and Second Chambers which have been dissolved and merged in a larger context. All these 161 municipalities were completely different, yet all these reclassifications had one characteristic in common: there was no idea, no vision and no plan behind them. All these reclassifications were ad hoc work, snapsnaps and fist away. We also see it this week: many reclassifications, all over the country, starting tonight with Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer. In 1980 we had 811 municipalities, now 388. This week there will be 39 municipalities. It's the Minister's first time, but she comes with big guns right away. Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer are three to all different municipalities. Groningen is a very large city, Ten Boer is a small rural municipality, and Haren is a municipality with little money and with many rich inhabitants. Totally different. One of the things the Minister has to look at in a reclassification is whether there is internal coherence. You expect these municipalities to look alike. And what is written from the Ministry? "The different characteristics and characteristics of the municipalities of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer complement each other well. Urban and rural areas are complementary and can reinforce each other." Yeah, that's how they talk about it in the Ministry! Can the Minister just admit that Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer are completely different municipalities? Ten Boer has existed since 1798, Haren since 1811. These churches are older than our kingdom. Did the people in Ten Boer do it all wrong? Did the people in Haren do it all wrong? No, they're fine municipalities. They've always been able to do their job well. But if it's not the municipalities, what's the point? Then it's up to the task. If it is not Ten Boer, Haren, Groningen or the province of Groningen, then it is up to us, this Chamber and the cabinet, who in recent years have thrown a lot of tasks over the fence in municipalities without giving enough money. They started to see local government as some kind of management problem, without showing respect for democracy. Redeployments are usually ahead of this without asking for anything from the population. My first question to the Minister is therefore: who owns local democracy? Whose is the local sovereignty, which has been in Ten Boer since 1798 and in Haren since 1811? Are those congregations of random rulers passing by? Or is the local democracy of the population, and is it therefore also up to the people themselves to decide what the future of their communities is? In Haren it's requested. The outcome was clear. Three-quarters of the people showed up and three-quarters of the people said no. Now I know that the Minister has problems with the word 'no' when it comes to referenda, democracy, participation, but 'no' means that people do not want it. My group, from the SP, will therefore also vote against the reclassification of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer. I'm going to ask the Minister for something that might be unusual for a D66 man: a vision. A vision of local government, because it has to be. I am also going to ask her to hold on to all the reclassifications that are before us today and tomorrow and to start with a vision of local government. And then I want to know how municipalities can be a political reflection of local communities. It is insane to see that we invest tasks in municipalities because it would be closer to the citizens, and that then those municipalities feel forced or forced to lift themselves up and go into huge associations that are far further away from the citizens. Where are you going? Súdwest-Fryslân is already a municipality with more than 80 cores. How can that be a political reflection of a local community? I want to know from the minister how she thinks residents can determine the correct size of their congregation. Yeah, that could be different. In one municipality people can say: we want a large municipality, with many tasks. But if people want a small church, they should also have the opportunity to perform less tasks. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. I would also like to comment on the following. How is it that there are always rearrangements of snapshots here? Why is there never a whole province taken, or the whole north, the whole southwest or east of the country? Why does it always happen that there's a reclassification here and a reclassification there? We're going to visit all the provinces these days. If you have such a huge municipality in an area, then the other municipalities around it think: yes, then so should we. Mr Bishop referred to it: the previous government had a plan, a vision. It was an idiotic plan, an insane vision, but it was in the coalition agreement. It said that all municipalities with less than 100,000 people had to be dissolved. That was a crazy plan that I don't think any of us want. But when I see how we mess around with all these reclassifications, with municipalities of 50,000, 60,000, 70,000, 80,000, 90,000 or 100,000 inhabitants, that's exactly what happens. This mess is going to happen exactly what we said no to in the previous reign. That is why I am going to ask Members of Parliament to stop this mess with local democracy and ask the government to come up with a plan, with a vision of local government. That vision, that plan, we can discuss here in the House of Representatives. Then we can see if there's a need for reclassifications or not. I have already mentioned the decentralisation of care responsibilities. We also have the security region with security tasks and we will soon get the Environment Act. But I would like to go back a little further with the Minister, to the dualisation of the beginning of this century, when the tasks of the city council and the college were redefined, when the representatives of the people were much less able to represent the people, but more and more often until deep into the evening above cups of coffee, over thick packs of paper to look through all those pieces of officials. Since the beginning of this century, there has also been a development in local democracy of managers, consultants and consultants. All the new tasks assigned to municipalities, all those care tasks, youth care tasks and reintegration tasks, also included all those managers, consultants and consultants. They've been getting into the local government with their desks. It costs claws full of money, hands full of money. I would also like a response from the Minister. How can we return local democracy to the civil servants and to the people for whom we must do all this? I'm glad people came here. The people in Haren have been able to speak out. They have made a clear statement about their democracy, about their future. And they go over; not this Chamber, not this minister, not the province, not the council members in their congregation, but the people themselves. These are the carriers of local democracy, and they have been for over 200 years. It's up to them to decide. That is why I also believe, finally, that a reclassification proposal should never be presented here again without a representative citizen consultation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u6	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I now give the floor to Mr Van den Bosch on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u7	Mr. Chairman. This week in this Chamber we are discussing a large number of proposals for merging municipalities, i.e. reclassifications. In doing so, it would prefer the VVD to use this development from the bottom up and benefit from support within the relevant municipalities. But we can see that this is not the case with every reclassification, as is the case with this reclassification, which the Haren City Council voted against. We have great respect for local democracy. It was therefore difficult for us to consider this reclassification. We understand the views of opponents and their desire for independence, but as a representative of the people, the VVD Group is also not convinced of the continuity of an independent Haren and we have a responsibility to the greater interest. We are therefore in favour of this reclassification. Although Haren currently has a balanced budget, the municipality's debt position is worrying. It is classified under the category "most risky'. The lack of financial reserves and the limited possibilities for further tax increases make the municipality extremely vulnerable to financial failures. That is what the government says in the note on the report. Just as the municipality will have to take several steps to maintain the required level of provision, the continuity of the municipality may be at stake. We also hear a lot of other sounds. So I would like to hear a response from the Minister once again to the government's position. Furthermore, the city council of Haren itself once indicated that the municipality is not able to provide all the services to its inhabitants independently. Although Haren is now expressing his opposition to this reclassification, it has in the past expressed its support for a reclassification. The VVD group understands that it is not Haren's first choice to go together with a significantly larger city like Groningen. However, the fact is that the other smaller municipalities, pastors, were already talking about the environment in recent years and that the reclassification preferred by Haren was rejected by the other party. Tynaarlo was mentioned, also by the SGP Group. I'd like to hear from the Minister again exactly what's going on. At the hearing we heard that the mayor of Tynaarlo says: no way, we do want to work together, but the reclassification is really over for us. Following many years of discussions, the Province of.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I can say that this is a province with delegates from different parties. The province should also do this on the basis of the ARHI Act, Article 8. With this, the province also monitors the quality of the local government. According to her, there are no other real reclassification options in the environment that can raise the administrative strength of Haren. I'd like to hear from the Minister how she's in there. Mr. Chairman. In the eyes of the VVD group, the municipality of Haren, given the documents, really lacks administrative and financial power to deliver independently the level of provision that is expected from a municipality today but also in the future. Although common arrangements could contribute to this, the VVD is also not convinced that an independent Haren would in the long term be able to provide its residents with the services they are entitled to. The VVD Group therefore believes that it is now time for clarity, because it offers prospects for a good future for everyone, both in Haren, no matter how painful it is for some people as well as in the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u8	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Another bill by this Minister of the Interior undermining democracy. A brief quote from the explanatory statement to clarify this: "It can be concluded from the meetings that the residents of Ten Boer are more positive about the reclassification than the residents of Haren. This is partly explained by the fact that the municipality of Ten Boer has been working closely with the municipality of Groningen for years." Doesn't the Minister know that 75% of the inhabitants of Haren are against it? This passage does not do justice to reality at all, does it? And then there's the statement the minister makes. Does she want us to believe that once you cooperate with Groningen, as the municipality of Ten Boer already does, people will be positive? Who's gonna believe this? This is consciously more beautiful than they are. Is this the good news? Is this Ollongean now? Mr. Chairman. The people of Haren don't want it. A majority of Haren strongly opposes the planned reclassification. Looks like the minister isn't aware. That is why there is a great temptation to reveal the whole history of this draft law once again, but I think the Minister knows what is going on. And I'm afraid she won't change her mind. I therefore confine myself to five arguments which are decisive for the 50PLUS group to oppose the proposed merger. Firstly, the citizens of Haren are being reorganised. Their identity is being taken from them. 50PLUS believes that the views of those directly concerned should be decisive. During the debate on abolishing the referendum, the Minister stressed the importance of local referendums to involve people very much in politics and political decision-making. Is that true when it comes to reclassifications? Or should we listen there, but can it only be advisory? 50PLUS still believes and increasingly believes in a binding referendum, especially in the case of planned mergers of municipalities. We are therefore happy to endorse a motion that Mr Van Raak has already announced on a standard referendum. Secondly, big is absolutely no better. It is the large municipality of Groningen that is in trouble, not the small municipality of Haren, even though the province wants us to believe it is. Groningen's reserves evaporated from 18% in 2014 to less than 10% in 2019, a decrease of around 130 million euros. An article in the National Administration of one and a half years ago states that this low level of reserves is almost unprecedented for a municipality and that the city would be ripe for the article 12 status. It is suggested that this is why the province did not want to conduct a financial investigation into the city, as requested by Haren. The debt of the city of Groningen would also be of concern. The conclusion in the article is that Groningen incurs debts and repays Haren debts. And yet the province screams murder and fire over Haren's towering debts. I'd like a response from the Minister. Thirdly, an independent Haren is a much better guarantee for maintaining the green, rural lung between Groningen and Assen. That is good for the environment and that is good for preserving the valuable cultural landscape. Groningen's been through a hell of a lot. Let us stop destroying even more from The Hague. And fourth. If it is necessary to merge, Haren wants to join Tynaarlo. Tynaarlo wants that too by now. These municipalities are similar. The inhabitants of the villages of Haren experience much more internal coherence with the villages and landscape of Tynaarlo than with the city of Groningen and the villages of Ten Boer. In Tynaarlo the new college is installed today and cooperation with Haren is explicitly included in the agreement. So there really is an alternative, if there is to be a reclassification. Fifth and last, but certainly not least, the way it all happened. The role of the province of Groningen is disturbing. I mentioned earlier the dubious statements of the province about the financial positions of the city of Groningen and of Haren. Moreover, the Citizen Committee Haren filed a complaint against the province for forgery in writing. How does the Minister feel about that? Does she suspect that falsehood has indeed been committed in writing? That would really be a new low. The Minister sails blind in this file in the province of Groningen. The province reportedly even answered the parliamentary questions. Can the Minister confirm or deny that? Is it true that no court has jurisdiction to correct a province during a reclassification procedure? I'd like a response from the Minister. The province is not the administrative level that most people feel involved in, but unfortunately that, as it turns out, is not the other way round either. The province of Groningen does not seem to be involved with the inhabitants of Haren. Is it right that the province has such an important role in reorganising? Can the Minister take the role of the province into account in the new policy framework for reclassifications already announced? Mr President, a forced reclassification as for Haren does not fit in with our democratic system. The 50PLUS Group has therefore tabled an amendment to keep Haren independent. The amendment was co-signed by Mr Van Raak. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Finally, a word of respect for the inhabitants of Haren. They were persistent during this frustrating fusion process. They fought with those in power who turned against them. They remained faithful to their ideal to remain independent. That's supposed to make this Parliament think about it, isn't it? Why abandon the inhabitants of Haren when only a handful of directors are happy with the planned reclassification? In the Netherlands the municipality is about its own municipality. That is an historic fact. Let's keep it that way. I express the hope and expectation that this Chamber will vote in favour of the amendment to remove Haren from the legislative proposal. My thanks therefore go to the people of Haren who have shown what local democracy should mean and there was not a single word of Ollongriaan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u10	We would like to co-sign the amendment, because it is true that Haren must remain independent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u11	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u12	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Martin Bosma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u13	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. First I say a few things about our democracy, then about the municipal reclassifications in general and then about Haren in particular. Mr. Chairman. Our democracy is increasingly being undermined. We see that in a lot of ways. We see the power of the citizen flowing away, towards Brussels, for example. Who voted for Frans Timmermans or Mr Selmayr? Because of the mass immigration, the Netherlands is populationed towards the Sharia. In many major cities there are ethnic parties. Democracy was once the exchange of ideas, but slowly becoming an instrument for advocacy on a tribal basis. We see that the elite of the Netherlands have embraced the ideas of May 1968 massively. Their left-wing liberalism thus gained a stranglehold at universities, high civil service, media, justice and so on. Why are we facing attacks in the Netherlands on Black Piet, Witte de With and Jan Pieterszoon Coen? That's because the elites want it, not because the people want it. We see a politicized public prosecutor who deals with people who speak out against Islam, but lets hate preachers walk, because otherwise you're gonna get riots. We are seeing the undemocratic agreements introducing a corporatist form of politics: the energy agreement, the social agreement, now the climate agreement. There's a secret meeting. There is nothing the citizens talk about, but there are all these environmental clubs all over the place. We see that the second party of the Netherlands is systematically excluded from participation in the administration, at local level and at national level. We see how PVVs often pay a high price for their democratic choice, in the atmosphere of: home-damaged, problems at work, threats. My list-taker's been living like a prisoner for 14 years. And under Ollongren, the law becomes a joke. See Amsterdam, where executed illegal immigrants entering homes are held over their heads. In the Netherlands we see the lobbyracy. Why has the light bulb been abolished? Well, thanks to a lobby of the environmental movement and Philips. Half of the States-General has already been set up as a hangout for lobbyists. That's what we call First Chamber. The referendum will be abolished, and if the referendum is there, the result will not be respected. We are faced with a minister who openly states that she will not accept the outcome of the election if she does not like it. This shows an anti-democratic attitude that we have rarely heard in the history of the States-General, who goes back to 1464, here: someone who is so shameless and openly anti-democrat into her fibers. On the list of ministers they trust, Dutch minister Ollongren placed in the last place. Only Minister Dekker still separates her from the red lantern. How much longer? Because, Mr President, we see the next battle in the war against the citizen, the citizen who must keep his mouth shut and march silently towards the European superstate under German leadership and direction. Today, the Minister presents a redistribution project involving 35 municipalities. That is almost 10% of the municipalities in the Netherlands, an unheard-of massacre. The local government moves even further away from the citizen towards large-scale board cobbles with cramped artificial names. The unstoppable train of municipal mergers is one of the largest megalomaniac projects in public administration ever. The house of Thorbecke is still standing, but on the lower floor more and more walls are being removed by the Swedish demolition company, with perhaps a carrying wall. These bearing walls form the origin of the Netherlands. It is the villages and cities on which the homeland is built. The Netherlands originated from below, not as a project of Berenschot or Twynstra Gudde. It is the origin of the Netherlands. We once waged 80 years of war around the ideas of popular sovereignty and subsidiarity. John Althusius wrote about this. He was the thinker of the Uprising, with a capital O. He had great influence on Abraham Kuyper and Christian democracy based himself among others on him. Another party noticed that in the past. VVD founder Professor Oud said in 1956, and I quote: "Efficiency is not the only thing that matters in governance matters. In the first place, the municipality can be seen as a community. If the municipality becomes an amorphic mass, the concept of local citizenship risks becoming a meaningless formula." Once we were citizens of municipalities, owners. Now we are mainly clients of the municipal civil service. We've become a customer of services. What exactly is the problem that Minister Ollongren is solving today? Just after the war we had 1,000 municipalities in the Netherlands. Now, with 17 million inhabitants, 380 municipalities, from an average of 3,000 to an average of 45,000 inhabitants. Big, taller, taller. And why? Yeah, no one knows. What happened? Yeah, no one actually knows that either. There is a faith, an irrational faith, and that has descended. The thought is not "small is beautiful" but "very big is beautiful." The magical cry "government power" is always used. No one who explains or defines what it is. There is talk about rationalization, about business, about professional, about efficiency. We see that in such a report by Berenschot or Twynstra Gudde the management scales per kilo are served. In Noordwijkerhout it is a "more powerful position in the region." What does that mean? There seems to be a fist to be made against other municipalities. Why? What have these congregations done? And shouldn't they also make a fist against that new supermunicipality of Noordwijk, to merge again? Under the former minister, 100 municipalities would be chased over the blade, and that would generate money: EUR 1 billion. In other words: The Netherlands becomes rich by abolishing municipalities. I can't believe we didn't think of that before. Why did we take all that natural gas out of the ground, when we could have made money by merging municipalities? Why don't we just turn the whole of the Netherlands into one municipality? Then we'll all get very rich right away and we can do something fun with that money. Mr. Chairman. In the end, there is no justification whatsoever for this mega operation, no justification whatsoever, no argument. In short: a perfect project for Mrs Ollongren, who likes projects without any foundation, such as the abolition of the referendum and the phony news. There is no empirical basis. There's no endgame either. The column, once in motion, cannot be stopped. Mr. Chairman. Mr Voermans and Mr Waling list in their beautiful book "Municipality in genes" on which evidence there are actually for the reclassification hysteria. Well, there aren't any. Beautiful is also the study by COELO, University of Groningen, from 2013, which finds that after the reclassification public expenditure does not decrease, regardless of whether it is large or small municipalities: it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. It does not improve municipal facilities and does not increase the attractiveness of municipalities. In fact, it runs back early. It has no advantage but perhaps a disadvantage, namely less political involvement and confidence in the administration. Professor Voermans illustrates this with the waning turnout in local elections. He also says that the recognition of the city council is decreasing and they are weaker than before the reclassification; the municipality, or professional politicians, are stronger; they are larger and have more money and so on. The local parties are also going to have a hard time. They've suddenly become a small fish in a much larger aquarium. Citizens often don't want it. They're getting over it. This leads to a greater distrust of politics. No one is at the root of that belief that worships the god of efficiency. Nowhere has the Chamber taken a fundamental decision on it other than the one-for-one debates we are holding here. We may then discuss the salami tactics as a chamber by meeting over the slices. Hair is such a slice, or Hoeksche Waard or Noordwijkerhout. We never talk about the sausage as a whole, and we certainly do not talk about the role it plays in hollowing out our democracy. In practice, the same Noordwijk is already completely merged with Noordwijkerhout. Why? Did we decide to do that as a room? No, they've been crafting themselves in the race of big, bigger, biggest. Your Lower House appears to be merely a pillow, Madam President. There is no municipal merger where the word "administrative power" does not appear. I always think of France or Switzerland. You are on holiday there, and each village has its own town hall, usually opposite the church. And in those countries, they don't fall for the management language. They just have a town hall, they have a mayor with a city council. Granted, that mayor sometimes only sits there a few mornings a week, but they do have one. And you can just talk to the good man or woman. Those French and Swiss are satisfied with that. They have thousands and thousands of municipalities, and no one is going to get rid of them. The word "administrative power" does not fall there at all. I do not feel that people live in those countries in the Stone Age. I do not feel that there is a desire for much more administrative power. By the way, the Minister is acting against the law with these reclassifications. Anyway, she's always had a hand with that. In the Municipal reclassification Policy Framework, part of the ARHI Act, the law on municipal reclassifications, says: "It is best to implement policy close to the citizen." Hey, the ghost of Johan Althusius. And it says, "The basis for a reclassification is important." But that is a dead letter, because the practice is to take policy as far away from the citizen as possible. Nowhere in all these reclassification plans shows some support for the population. My party says that such an important decision, which essentially cuts through the roots that are centuries-old and centuries-old, must always take place after a referendum, a referendum in which all citizens can vote. Citizens must be able to express their views directly. Mr. Chairman. Hair is a nice snack for Groningen. We're going to build the Netherlands. Everything that is now green becomes one big cozy new building district. This is due to the mass immigration and the D66 ideal of open borders. The population is growing because of the population. Asylum seekers shall be given priority housing. And you bet the green space between Haren and Groningen comes up sooner or later. Haren's money is also welcome. Haren's solvency is up to 26%. Groningen's falls below 10%. Haren can become the fifth city of the Netherlands if it eats the little neighbors. Too bad for Eindhoven, but that finds a number of other neighboring municipalities to eat. Mr. Chairman. In Haren, that rustic villa village, there is a massive vote of D66 and VVD, two parties that have been working for decades to demolish local democracy. No dog votes PVV, the party that stands out for local democracy. All those pearl necklaces and tweed jackets are gonna vote for their own demise. There was a referendum. Three-quarters of the residents are against it. There is a very active residents committee, and the municipality of Haren itself does not want it. It's even stopped all conversations with Groningen. The bridge over the moat has been built. Here too, the Minister does not come anywhere with any serious justification, nowhere. Why the hell does Haren need to be eaten? There is no argument for that. The singer Dotan underpins his actions a lot more fundamental than this minister. Whoa, wait! Did I say "referendum"? In Haren, D66 reigns. 30% of people vote for D66. Here in The Hague, the D66s tell us that referenda are not good, because they raise expectations that cannot be met. That's why this party is fighting the referendum here. Strange: when it comes to maintaining your own villa village, the referendum is suddenly good again. National referendums do not want the D66s, because then the tokkies and the populists will also vote, and that cannot be the intention of democracy. The people are inclined to all evil. But in the villa village we are nice among ourselves, with a lot of osm, our kind of people, and then the D66's are in favour of the referendum. The love of democracy for Demofoben '66 depends on who's going to vote. Anyway, it's simple, Haren doesn't want to. Hair doesn't feel like it. It wants to remain independent, and those people are absolutely right about that. It's their village. They are the owners of it and do not want to become the customer of a mega supermarket down the road. D66 chases them into a swamp they don't want to go into. CDA-deputy Brouns van Groningen rams it through at a speed that is unbelievable. Professor Oud again from 1956: "Efficiency is not the only thing it comes to in matters of governance. The municipality can be seen in the very last place as a community." And that community of Haren wants to stay Haren. Does the Minister agree with my group that the opinion of the population should be respected, and therefore that Haren should not participate in this megalomaniac project? What's nice, by the way, is that the D66 department is fighting Haren D66 nationwide. "The municipality is left with money," says the D66 mayor of Haren. "We can handle all tasks easily." The alderman of D66 also says: "The province has found a solution and sought a problem." According to the alderman of D66, the Minister of D66 uses "fake news." The leader of the D66 group in Haren even talks about "homeopathic dilution" by a D66 minister. Nice. A party that has members. I understand the thought behind that is that you listen to those members. That is the much-sung party democracy that is so high on the list. Well, I'm sure Mrs Den Boer from D66 will be explaining very carefully how she listens to her members. Or are we going to find out that the members of D66 simply have to grieve and keep their heads down, and that this party democracy is just a wash-up? Many sit at home with beer and pretzels to listen to D66's answer. Mr. Chairman. I received an e-mail from Mrs Van Wagenberg from Haren, who wrote to me: "I only experienced in Haren that this small-scale community with close links to the local government invites par excellence to participate in the social domain. And that's what I'm doing." She's putting her finger on the sore spot. Small municipalities are ideally invited to participate. That is one of the reasons why we should be careful. Here we see how it goes throughout the Netherlands when municipalities die: something is dropped from above, the opinion of the citizen is totally irrelevant, it is pushed through, mostly with the support of the provinces, and there is never a decent reasoning or justification. Mr. Chairman. What is true for Haren is true for all those municipalities that go under the chopping block today and tomorrow. There is no valid rational argument for it. There is nothing to be gained, except at least the great chance that the administration will be further removed from the citizen. We all shouldn't want that. The CDA, the VVD and D66 demolish municipalities. The CDA, which always talks so piously about local government, about small cores and about the world outside the Randstad, has been demolishing municipalities for 30 years. Too bad they forgot about John Althusius. Sometimes they mumble something like "really the last time," but in the end they just always draw at the cross. And the VVD forgot about Professor Old. A liberal party is putting democracy at a distance. And at D66 they don't know who Hans van Mierlo was with his heroic plea for more democracy. All these municipalities are demolished: Haren, Ten Boer, Binnenmaas, Cromstrijen, Korendijk, Oud-Beijerland, Strijen, Leerdam, Vianen, Zederik, Aalburg, Werkendam, Woudrichem, Nuth, Onderbanken, Schinnen, Haarlemmerliede, Spaarnwoude, Bedum, De Marne, Eemsmond, Winsum, Grootegast, Leek, Marum, Zuidhorn, Giessenlanden, Molenwaard, Dongeradeel, Ferwerderadeel, Kollumerland, Nieuwkruisland, Noordwijkerhout, Geldermalsen, Lingewaal and Neerijnen. The Party for Freedom says: let us save our congregations, our local democracy, the centuries-old irreplaceable roots of the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u14	Thank you, Mr. Martin Bosma. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the next 24 hours we will discuss twelve proposals for municipal reclassifications. For some reclassifications it is almost a formality or, rather, a natural phenomenon, because all the municipalities and provinces concerned support the reclassification. This does not apply, however, to the reclassification that is now under discussion, that of Groningen, Ten Boer and Haren. Groningen and Ten Boer have been working together for a long time and would like to reorganise. Hair, on the other hand, doesn't want to know about redefining for the time being, because there is a concern in Haren that it will be snowed under the wings of the city. Hair attaches to its own autonomy. The best thing is, of course, when plans come from below and are supported by all stakeholders in the process. But the practice is sometimes more uncomfortable than that. Unfortunately, it is not always possible that everyone agrees with a reclassification and with each other. In the run-up to this bill, I visited Haren twice, once with the Chambers Committee. The conversations I had then, I experienced as very valuable. I would therefore like to thank the people of the region once again for this. Mr. Chairman. My group is reviewing a reclassification against a number of criteria. A reclassification should increase and strengthen administrative power. There must be a strong civil service organisation, which has sufficient expertise, which can carry out the tasks that come from the Empire and which is attractive to work for people with expertise. The provision of services to citizens must be optimised and the accessibility of the municipality to citizens must be ensured. Furthermore, the level of provision should be improved; this should not be allowed to deteriorate. However, the administrative power of the municipality of Haren is limited, according to the documents we received. In a region where many other municipalities merge into medium-sized municipalities, the position of a small independent municipality of Haren would become even more vulnerable. The power of action of the official apparatus is limited. For this reason, there is a successful regional cooperation with Groningen on dossiers, including those on decentralisation. But there is more responsibility towards municipalities, such as the Environment Act. The long-term financial picture is not reassuring. The budget will be in order in 2018, but that doesn't mean anything about carrying weight, pros and cons and preparing for new tasks. It's actually driving with the hand brake on it: you want to move forward, but because the resources and the people are insufficient, you can't move forward. Mr. Chairman. In addition, my group has looked at the opinion of our local and provincial groups in the reclassification proposal before us. In all three municipalities and in Provincial States, GroenLinks voted in favour of reclassification. My group understands this balance very well, because when we look at the facts, we see logical arguments for a reclassification in this case. Of course, people in Haren have concerns. Do we retain our own identity and our small-scale character? And isn't the green strip between Groningen and Haren fully built? But when we look at the board agreement, we see that good agreements have been made. Can the Minister comment on how she sees the anchoring and functioning of these agreements? Mr. Chairman. I have a few specific questions for the Minister. First of all, the process of reclassification has taken a long time, very long. There is also a lot of criticism of the trial. How does the minister look back on the trial? And how does she think relations can be improved again, if the reclassification takes place? Can the Minister confirm that the level of provision in Haren and Ten Boer will be maintained, even after the reclassification? In the written input, my group also drew attention to the accessibility of future municipal services. How will it be ensured that the administration will continue to be accessible to all its inhabitants in the large municipality? And then the preservation of the green strip between Groningen and Haren. Can the Minister confirm that the administrative agreement has agreed that this section will not be built in the coming period? I'd like to hear the Minister's response. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u16	Mr. Martin Bosma. Ms. Özütok...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u17	Don't run away now, ma'am.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u18	No, she didn't see you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u19	There's a governance agreement, so it's all gonna be fine: that's a bit how GroenLinks thinks. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance says that there are logical arguments for this reclassification, but I have listened very carefully to Mrs Özütok and I have not heard one. Would it not also be a logical argument to listen to the people of Haren, who do not want it at all? Wouldn't that be a much more logical argument than the apparachik-like ideas this minister comes up with?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u20	I have mentioned a number of arguments. It's about the power of government. It is about the financial situation and the financial perspective. It is also a question of the administrative apparatus, which is too limited to be able to carry out all the tasks in the near future. That's what you've been able to read in all the pieces. I have indeed listened very carefully, both to the supporters and to the opponents. The fact that there are resistances in this process has been known since day one. This also means that we need to take a very serious look at the arguments. I have to say quite frankly that if I weigh that all against each other, whatever my group has done, the course of this reclassification does appeal to me. I still need answers from the Minister to be reassured about the concerns I still have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u21	Haren's financial situation is good. Mrs Özütok also attended our trip when we were allowed to hold the hearing there. Well, said the Alderman Finance, the money's fine. There are also all audit reports. The municipality of Haren says that it can handle all the tasks, even the extra tasks that the municipalities have received in recent years. They can just do whatever they want and the amenities level really isn't going to fall. I ask my question again: what does GroenLinks think of the argument that three quarters of Haren doesn't want it? They just don't want to. People don't want it. Isn't that an argument in itself that you could listen to? Even for the former Communist Party of the Netherlands, this could be an argument from time to time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u22	I think Mr Bosma is confused. My party is called GroenLinks. I think it is very important that the governance agreement also complies with the green paragraph. I have just asked the Minister these questions. I find in the documents that the financial situation is worrying. I would like to hear from the Minister whether that is indeed true or whether she has a different view of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u23	Finally, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u24	We were sitting next to each other, almost. Mr. Van den Bosch was still in the middle of that hearing. You also heard that Alderman Finance who said that the solvency is going well? He said we have enough money, we have reserves, there's just nothing going on. You have also heard that alderman and the people of that congregation who say they have sufficient administrative power to use that horrible word, that they can just do anything and that there is nothing at stake? It is not the case that tomorrow in Haren people go back to the bear skins if one is not eaten by Groningen. You heard those people, didn't you? Those are the people who know and feel the practice of every day of Haren. They know exactly what's going on. You're actually saying, "I don't believe them, I don't believe Haren's city council." You don't believe the people either, because three quarters say no. But you say: no, we in GroenLinks know better. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u25	I think I have just given a detailed answer. I listened to both the supporters and the opponents and gave a well-balanced opinion, namely that a reclassification in this situation would be good. The financial situation at the moment does not say anything about the future. And I'm looking at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u26	It's getting really laughable. Mrs Özütok has not answered the question at all. When it comes to democracy and GroenLinks, I start to worry. GroenLinks is against binding referendums. And when the people speak about their own congregation, about their own democracy, GroenLinks doesn't give up at home either. Does Mrs Özütok agree with me, first of all, that 75% of Haren spoke out and that 75% said no? Does she agree or does she deny it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u27	I think Mr Van Raak means the referendum of four years ago. That was directed towards the town of Haren. The municipality of Haren has given an opinion on this. In those four years, time has not stopped. There have, of course, been a number of further developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u28	That's right. Haren's got the finances in order. Haren has the duties in order. Haren's done his homework. And Haren says we can handle it, we can handle it. And then I wonder who Mrs Özütok is to say here on behalf of GroenLinks that the people of Haren know nothing and do not understand what is happening in Haren and that the officials in Haren do not understand anything about Haren. They don't understand what's happening in Haren. Also the people representatives of Haren and the aldermen of Haren, all these people, don't understand anything about Haren. But I, Mrs Özütok van GroenLinks, know better. I know what's good for other people. I know what's good for Haren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u29	I absolutely cast that image of me. I am a Member of Parliament of GroenLinks and I listened very carefully to the people there. I was not only there with the committee, as Mr Bosma says, but I also received people here. I didn't see you or a representation of the SP there. When it comes to dealing with decision-making, I say that your party in the province has already voted in favour of this whole reclassification. I think I will be finished, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u30	I think I've been to Haren more than Mrs Özütok. This is about respect for local democracy, for the voice of the people. Does Mrs Özütok at least agree with me that the problems that arise here, the problems of all these 39 municipalities that we have to reorganise this week, are not caused by the municipalities and not by the provinces, but that they are caused by the need for these municipalities to do all kinds of new tasks that they cannot do in this way? This means that all kinds of consultants must be hired and partnerships created. In this way there is a great deal of pressure for reclassification, not because people want it, but because of the government's policy. Does Mrs Özütok at least agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u31	There are 12 proposals here. Right now we're talking about the reclassification of Groningen, Ten Boer and Haren. That's what I'm restricting myself to now. I think I have already said the necessary things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u32	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a city councilman and alderman, I ran into the Ten Boer model for years. I just didn't think the board members would get over it. Ten Boer had all her business done by the municipality of Groningen, but remained independent. In a way, that was about eating two pieces of food: drive yourself, but let the big brother or sister do the thing next door. A conscious choice from Ten Boer. In the meantime, this is so good that they want to combine in one municipality as well. In this way, municipalities that do not want to redeploy will lose an argument, because the Ten Boer model does not ultimately stop reclassification. In a way, that is a pity, because reclassification is not a duty. On the other hand, Ten Boer deliberately and confidently opts for joining Groningen. I can understand that. Groningen is a fantastic city. And if a Frisian can get that over his lips, you'd better believe it. I therefore wish the inhabitants of Ten Boer a good accommodation in the new municipality and the municipality of Groningen much wisdom in dealing with her ommeland. Mr. Chairman. Is there a future for an independent municipality of Haren? That is what the Chamber will decide in the next week. For many inhabitants of Haren, the answer to that question is already certain. They say very clearly: yes, there is a future for an independent municipality of Haren, a municipality that can choose with whom it cooperates or wants to go together. That is precisely why Haren's reclassification with Groningen and Ten Boer lies like a stone on the stomach of the CDA-Room Group. As a group, we want to take the final decision carefully. And we're not there yet. That is why we want to ask the Minister questions this evening in order to be able to make the final assessment. For the CDA Group, reclassification is at the bottom of the starting point. There may be deviations from that, but then there must be a need. It is up to the Minister to demonstrate that necessity tonight. Mr. Chairman. I would like to raise three points. One:...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u34	Before you continue, Mr. Martin Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u35	I am sorry to interrupt Mr Van der Molen in his brilliant speech, but is he really saying that he is considering voting against this law if the Minister does not come up with the right arguments? Nobody's gonna believe that, right? Yeah, he'll come up with some questions. Then the Minister will answer it and then Mr Van der Molen will say: well, then I am very impressed. But Mr. Van der Molen, the CDA group is just gonna sign off on the cross anyway, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u36	I heard Mr Bosma say that. Nevertheless, I know, and not only from tradition, that in the Cabinets-Balkenende, for example, the CDA has most often voted against reclassification. So it's definitely possible. Is it not possible that the CDA Group will eventually vote in favour? No, I didn't. But I do want to make a clean choice. I want my group to be able to make that choice aware. That does indeed mean that the choice may also be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u37	I find it difficult to believe Mr Van der Molen. He's suggesting a little bit that we're dealing with Haren for the first time today. That's not true. Our inboxes have been moaning for a year from all the reports from the various committees there. We're dead. We got a bunch of paper from them. We've arranged meetings. So we've known about Haren for months. I knew all of Haren's ins and outs. I'd never been there before, but now I know all about it. If I have to, I can walk around blind at night. That goes at least as well for Mr Van der Molen, who comes from that region, so he is very familiar with it. So he has known for a long time what the situation is and he really doesn't need the Minister's text. He already knows. He's trying to play a little hide-and-seek right now. Again my question: Mr. Van der Molen, you're just going to vote in favour, so don't play theater tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u38	I think Mr Bosma points out that what I have said so far does not fit in with his own contribution. I can't help it. I have a contribution in which I ask the Minister a number of questions. It's true that we've been to Haren together. You assume by the simple fact that I'm from Friesland that I've been in Haren a lot. As far as I've been aware, at least not before, but perhaps once before as a child. I share Mr Bosma's view that we have talked to a great many people in Haren. I, too, have spent time in this, not only in the conversations there, but also in the conversations with the CDA leaders and with the administrators in the province, to complete my image as a Member of Parliament. As a Member of Parliament, I myself, together with my group, make an assessment on the basis of content and arguments. Today is the first time that we and public and public can ask the minister questions, and that is what I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u39	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u40	Maybe I am asking a question about something that Mr Van der Molen himself is about to tell you about, so he can forget my question: can he tell us where his red line is? What are his minimum requirements for this minister so that he will advise his group to vote in favour of this reclassification?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u41	That is indeed part of my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u42	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u43	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to raise three points. The first is the question of resistance to the reclassification, the second is the question of the sustainable financial situation of Haren and the third is the question of the free choice of administrative partners. I deliberately do not mention the situation of the municipal organisation, because we, as CDA, assume that a municipality of about 19,000 inhabitants should in principle be able to manage its policy. Mr. Chairman. First of all, something about the resistance to the reclassification. I would like to point out, however, that, as far as we are concerned, there has been nothing to do with the commitment of the people of Haren, that in the struggle for her independence there has been a low point. Deputy Brouns van Groningen, who is involved in the reclassification, has had to claim personal security because he has received a death threat. This is an unacceptable course of action for the CDA Group. I would like to hear the same sound from the Minister in her first term. Mr. Chairman. Then the principle of the bottom; the resistance. Can the Minister state clearly on what grounds, in her view, the province of Groningen has rightly taken charge of the reclassification? How does the Minister himself consider that a majority of Haren's municipal council does not support the reclassification and that there is a strong resistance among the population, including through the residents' committee? In this preliminary process, where does the Minister base her confidence that the municipalities will soon succeed in working well together if the reclassification continues? Does the Minister see any responsibility for herself in this? After all, it submits the law to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. A sustainable, insoluble financial problem can be a reason to move away from the bottom-up principle. On the question of whether an independent municipality of Haren is possible, the consultancy firm B&A from The Hague replied in 2016: no, unless. This was the starting point for the province of Groningen to initiate the procedure to include Haren in the reclassification of the municipalities of Groningen and Ten Boer. That "no, unless" was the subject of a number of conditions. In this way, the municipality of Haren should put financial order in order. How does the Minister view the longer term financial position of Haren? That's important. We are now in 2018 and Haren has intervened heavily. There's a tight budget. Does that make the Minister's assessment any different? In short, can Heren, in the view of the Minister, be financially independent with the tasks it intends to carry out for its inhabitants? Mr. Chairman. I'll end with questions about Haren's freedom to choose a partner. I myself heard Haren say very realistically that a reclassification is not in itself off the table, but certainly not with Groningen. How does the Minister look at the question of whether Haren might be on his own in the future? Municipalities must always work together today. Is the municipality of Midden-Groningen really a closed road? Does it consider the preferred variant of Haren feasible, namely the merger with Tynaarlo, which others have already talked about? Mr President, so much for the CDA Group's questions. We look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u44	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Den Boer on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u45	Mr. Chairman. It is no secret that D66 is in principle in favour of municipal reclassifications. Developments are increasingly taking place at municipal and regional level rather than at national level. Think, for example, of the decentralisations in the social domain. Municipalities are getting more and more tasks, such as youth care and the Participation Act. For small municipalities, it can be difficult to carry out all these tasks properly. They often depend on partnerships with other municipalities, with democratic control at a distance. In addition, smaller municipalities sometimes lack administrative power. A small administrative organisation which has to carry out major tasks can be narrowed down, especially if the financial position is tight. And no, bigger is not always better or an end in itself. However, it is important that a municipality can take care of its inhabitants, that there are working facilities and that there is a strong government. That is what my group stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u46	Heartwarming. D66 is concerned about the finances of Haren and the quality of the administration there. That's very nice. We're dead. The alderman of D66, sitting here in the public gallery, says: the money is good, the solvency is good and the municipal finances are good. The D66 alderman there also says: we can handle the tasks that follow from the Wmo and all that, no problem at all. Is Mrs. Den Boer willing to listen to her partymates in this lovely little villa village?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u47	I still have a cup of finance in my contribution. I propose to Mr Bosma that I answer that question in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u48	No, no, no, no, no. Just answer the question. It'll save us some time. Again, it's very simple. The D66 alderman who's dealing with finance and the government department says that the finances are going well and we can handle anything, so the...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u49	Fine, then we'll talk about finances twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u50	... impactpower and administrative power are all fine. Why don't you believe your own partymates? That I don't trust D66s is my job, but why don't D66s trust each other anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u51	Firstly, I would like to point out that, in the meantime, Haren has made cuts. There's no denying that. Haren's budget shows that the IZB has gone up and that there has been significant cuts in all kinds of facilities. I'm about to discuss that in my text. I would also like to pay tribute to the municipality of Haren for this commitment. The room to further increase taxes is limited. Besides, there are not only wealthy families in Haren, but also 500 poor families. Those people are going to suffer from the cuts in these facilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u52	I don't get it. The fact that savings are being made is therefore a reason to say that the municipality's finances are not good. I think that's a weird reasoning. Cuts are actually being implemented to make sure you get better financially, so I don't think that's a very strong argument. Let me try again. Your partymates, many of them, are now sitting in the public gallery; they are also watching them at home, because this is being broadcast there. Many of your partymates, Mrs Den Boer, do not want that merger at all. They say: the municipality is doing well, there is nothing wrong with that; and even if something were wrong, it is our municipality and we prefer to be independent rather than part of that municipality of Groningen. You can understand that a little bit, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u53	Haren's financial position is not the only argument that we take into consideration in the reclassification of Haren. We are, of course, looking at the financial solvency that is very important, but we are looking in particular at the future of Haren and the new municipality of Groningen. We must be able to meet all the new challenges. We want to prevent the new municipality, but also Haren, if it remained independent, from being vulnerable in the financial sense. That's what we've been looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u54	Mrs Den Boer says on behalf of D66 that Haren should be removed because there are so many new tasks. D66 has once thought that new tasks need to be assigned to the municipality, because it is nice and close to the citizens, and now we are suddenly told: now that municipalities have been given all these new tasks, a number of them need to be removed. Doesn't Mrs Den Boer of D66 think that's a bit of a weird reasoning?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u55	First of all, I note that the Socialist Party in the Provincial States is in favour of the reclassification, so I am also curious to hear your argument for voting against the reclassification. You have just explained a few things, but I did not specifically ask for them. In doing so, decentralisation can really be a reason to scale up. But that is not the only reason; you know that very well. There are other challenges. In particular, we are talking about administrative power. That's one of the big things. It's also vulnerable in Haren right now. Secondly, we are talking about regional cohesion. Scale up other municipalities. If Haren were to remain independent, it would be left alone. I don't see how that goes well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u56	If I were D66 alderman, I'd be a little upset about this disqualification, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u57	I just complimented him, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u58	But try to answer my question. Yes, it is true: municipalities are saddled with big problems from the Empire and provinces must try to solve that. They do so in all conscience, but that is an impossible task, because municipalities have been given an impossible task by the government, from D66: all kinds of difficult tasks in a very short time for far too little money. And then Mrs Den Boer says on behalf of D66: we have done all kinds of tasks to the municipalities, because that is nicely close to the citizens, but there are now so many tasks in the municipalities that a number of municipalities need to be removed. I would once again ask Mrs Den Boer of D66 whether she does not think that is a bit of a strange reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u59	In the meantime, we're from about 1,100 municipalities to "what is it now?" The Commission has decided to initiate proceedings under Article 93 We have thus been able to avoid a great deal of administrative pressure in the Netherlands. It's more straightforward that way. But the most important thing, Mr. Van Raak, is that a reclassification often works out much better for the residents. In this way, residents simply have access to facilities, such as youth care, so that they don't have to wait months for all kinds of things from the municipality, such as the waste being collected properly or bicycle paths being built. In our opinion, after a very good balance, this can be done much better together with Groningen and Ten Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u60	Mr Van Raak, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u61	Now the monkey's coming out of the sleeve. We've got red tape. We once had a lot of municipalities and now we have to go to very few municipalities. I don't know how many: 12 or one? There's a lot of red tape. So the managers, the consultants of Mrs Den Boer and of D66 find it all too busy with all those municipalities. There's really a manager here talking who doesn't respect local democracy. Who's Mrs. Den Boer from D66 to determine what administrative hustle and bustle is? It is up to the people themselves to decide what their church is, what their community is and what tasks are associated with it. Mrs Den Boer has all kinds of weird ideas about governance and management. But is it prepared to start and end with the voice of the citizens, the local communities and to ask people what they think is the right size of the municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u62	We see with a lot of reclassifications, even in the twelve reclassifications that lie ahead, that it often goes very well and that it also happens from the bottom up without resistance. It is incredibly important to take that into account. That's the first thing. Secondly, we place the inhabitants first. It is their interests that are at stake, and they must be taken into account. This involves, among other things, the provision of services by the municipalities. I think that's very important. But it's also about democracy. There's gonna be a new city council. The entire municipality will be able to express its opinion on the new wishes of all residents of the new municipality. Democracy will be given a new impetus. I'm absolutely convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u63	You are throwing away democracy!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u64	I would like to thank Mrs Den Boer for this explanation. That offers some perspective, also in view of my question. In Haren, there is very strong resistance among the local population against association with Groningen. I do not know whether the financial arguments there are so sound, but I await the Minister's answers to my question on that point. Now there is a clear lack of attention to cross-border cooperation between provinces. This aspect has not been taken into account in the entire analysis initiated by the province of Groningen. Is Mrs Den Boer prepared to leave open, in line with the amendment tabled by Mr Krol and Mr Van Raak, the possibility that regional diversity, the regional remit and the need for cooperation should be implemented in this way? So it's not going north, it's going west.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u65	I thank Mr Bishop for all his wisdom. Really, I think it's a very nice suggestion. But we've already done this process. There have already been reconnaissances with Tynaarlo. There's been three engagement requests. They didn't come out on marriages. At some point there is nothing left but to work together in this way. So I'd say, let's just try this with each other and start forming a new powerful governance in that beautiful hair. I'll get there. I have heard that a number of Members of Parliament have never been there, but I have been there. The beautiful Pieterpad runs through it. What about the green lung? We're gonna keep it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u66	Mrs Den Boer seems to answer my question, but in fact she bypasses him. I am referring to the analysis commissioned by the province of Groningen. In the assignment there is expressly no room to look at cooperation, merging with Tynaarlo. I also know that attempts have been made in the past to do so, that they have failed and that relations have not been optimal, and so on. An opening is now required. My question remains: is Mrs Den Boer prepared to take this option seriously from the point of view of the regional interest? Because it hasn't been investigated so far. That option is blocked by the province of Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u67	I see a process that has been completely democratic and careful, also in view of the role of the province. There may be other opinions on this, but I see a province that has taken responsibility at the moment of stagnation. I think that's powerful. We see a city council that has spoken out, albeit in different compositions. We're seeing a citizen consultation. We have the reconnaissance of the administrative future. There has been an open consultation with the province. The Council of State has given its opinion. I see many elements in the overall democratic process and everything has been considered. On the basis of all the considerations offered by the reclassification framework, we conclude that this reclassification of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer has our support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u68	Finally, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u69	Then I would like to suggest to Mr Den Boer that we take a closer look at the regional orientation commissioned by the province of Groningen. That cannot pass the test of criticism. An option towards Drenthe is blocked because of the provincial border. As a result, not all options and possibly an optimal variant have not been put on the table. I'd like to give that to her. Perhaps that could lead to support for the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u70	I don't know if we can reinvigorate the engagement efforts. We have considered everything, including regional orientation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u71	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u72	Then I come to the opposition, which we have actually already talked about a little bit. I just said that D66 is basically in favour of municipal reclassifications. Of course, support is one of the criteria to be assessed. Ten Boer and Groningen believe that this reclassification is the right solution. In Haren there is opposition. During the on-site hearing and also via e-mail we heard their objections. We have taken these concerns into account in our consideration. That is why I am building up my speech in this way. The relationship between the municipality of Haren and the province of Groningen has been seriously disturbed. There is loud shouting, but do the loudest screamers also have the truth in rent? Is the voice of those who are silent sufficiently heard? I am thinking of the weak in Haren, who are leaning on the provisions that are now being cut. The debate on the reclassification has been going on for years. In the meantime, many researches have been carried out into a possible independent Haren. These reports are mostly critical. Since these reports, Haren has made every effort to remain independent. There's been severe cuts, housing costs have risen. My group sees that the financial situation has improved slightly, but is that enough to allow Haren to stand on his own two feet? Concerns remain about the power of Haren's administration. A minority college is now pulling the cart. In addition, the administrative capacity is limited, which means that the performance of legal tasks is narrowed down, says B&A. Examples include educational accommodation, land use plans and sustainability policies that are not well developed. New major tasks are also emerging, such as the implementation of the Environmental Act. A plan of approach is lacking in Haren, as is also stated in the municipality's own budget for 2018. In short, investing in the administrative and executive power of the municipality of Haren is in any case urgently needed, especially for the inhabitants of Haren. Which brings me to Haren's financial position. It's still weak. If Haren wants to remain independent, it means substantial cuts, higher taxes and no room for investment. This is what Haren has started. We see cuts in Haren's 2017 budget. Let me give you a few examples: the removal of contributions to specific education policies, the cessation of funding for the swimming pool, substantial cuts in social work, the complete abolition of occasional subsidies on sport, well-being and culture. In addition, there is also a significant increase in housing costs. We do not deny that Haren is cutting back to improve her financial position, but at the expense of what? How does this get to the people in Haren? We receive signals from people with concerns about the level of provision in the municipality. How does the Minister view this? There's been a stalemate. The limited administrative capacity requires investment, including for new challenges, such as the Environment Act. However, that money is not there. Services and the social domain are severely cut back, let alone money for administrative capacity or innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u73	Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u74	Sigh, sigh, sigh. Mrs. Den Boer, your partymates are laughing at you in the face. They don't take you seriously for a second. Those are the people who live there, who are in the municipal councils and who are active in the D66 Department of Haren. They tell us time and time again: "These facilities are not at all at risk. The finances are fine. Don't worry, the solvency is excellent." I mentioned it in my text. What makes you think you know everything better than the people who stand with their feet in the fire water every day in the town of Haren? What's with the arrogance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u75	This is certainly not an attempt to be arrogant, Mr. Bosma. However, I note that in the past the PVV was also in favour of reclassifications, so I'm still a little wondering why Mr.Bosma just spoke out against all the reclassifications, including these. My question, of course, is also intended to say: we are a democracy, that also means a party democracy, and that also means that D66 in Haren was able to express itself in this way. There is not only a D66 in Haren, but there is also D66 in Groningen who has thought well about this whole story. I understand, of course, that that is a little confusing, that there is a party where people and local groups simply make their own decision. The bill is now before us, here in the House of Representatives. All kinds of considerations have been made at local level. I look back at a process in which a lot of negotiations have taken place, in full transparency, and in which everyone has been able to see the documents. I also think it is very important to emphasise that there has been a governance agreement in which the future of these municipalities has been established and which the inhabitants of Haren have also been able to express their views on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u76	Mrs. Den Boer makes it really hard for me, because she stacks abekool on abekool and every time I think: oh, I'm going to come back to this. Then let me say something about that governance agreement at the end. In that governance agreement, Haren is not a party at all, and it only takes two years. Moreover, once Haren has been merged away and the things that were said not to be done in that administrative agreement are still being done, there is no more Haren to go to court to say: implement the administrative agreement. I really like it, you know, all those pubes that are always made up in these kinds of processes, but people shouldn't start believing in them themselves. If the politicians do that, the end is lost. My question is very simple. How come you don't want to listen to the people in your own party and you don't want to listen to the people who live there, the 75% of the population of Haren who says: don't do it to us, we don't want to? The people in Haren, aren't they the owners of Haren himself? Those are the bosses, the shareholders of that village, aren't they? If they say they want to remain independent, can you just listen to them and understand them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u77	As a member of the House of Representatives, I am here as a representative for all Dutch people, for all Harenars and, of course, for all residents of Groningen and Ten Boer. It's primarily about their importance. Of course I have listened and of course I have spoken with several people. I also went to Groningen with you very nicely that day, where we made the tour and did the hearing. You chaired it very well that day, because the tension was indeed to cut. It's very good to have been in conversation. We also took the sounds from Haren, Groningen and Ten Boer. I have incorporated this in my speech for today and in our position. I'm going to ask the Minister a few more questions about that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u78	Tell me it's not true. I am primarily concerned with the interests of the people of Haren, I hear Mrs van D66 say. Well, those people in Haren know very well what they want. They look at everything that's going on, they look at everything that's going on and they say, "We don't want to be part of that great Groningen." They're worried about the future. I understand that, because there's a beautiful green lung in between and Groningen is doing a little bit worse financially than Haren. So these people are also looking to the future. Is the fear that they have there, perhaps not entirely wrong, of which those people, including many of your party mates, say that they do not want it for that reason, something you say: I am listening to? Or do you also say: I don't believe that either?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u79	This isn't about believing or not believing. It is about listening, indicating and interpreting and taking a position on that basis. We have very much considered this position, including within my group. We have done so on the basis of many different considerations. You know all these considerations. We also know the policy framework. All kinds of studies show that this is no longer possible in Haren. The power of administration is weak. This reclassification process has been going on for far too long. It is now time for Haren, for the new congregation, for the Harenars, for the Groningers, for the residents of Ten Boer to start with a new story and a new beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u80	Mrs Den Boer says "I don't want to be arrogant," but that did not work. I must honestly say that in the 15 years that I have been reorganising here, I have never seen anyone so arrogant. I think it's a bit disgusting, too. We have given all these tasks to these municipalities, with far too little money and far too little time. And what does Mrs. Den Boer do? He's not gonna ask the government how stupid it was that we could do that. No, he's gonna wipe these municipalities out: they're not doing this right, they're not doing it right, they're not doing sister good, the officials aren't doing it right, the councilmen aren't doing it right, the drivers aren't doing it right. And then she says, "Yes, there's a deficit on this, there's a deficit on that, there's a cut in this," whereas from those directors, the council members, the civil servants are squarely denied. Her own directors say they've got the place in order. Then why are you so arrogant? Then why listen to these people so badly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u81	Of course, there are a lot of noises: that of the inhabitants, but also of the players in the game... in the playing field. Of course, we see a lot of actors. We also see regional actors. We also see mayors. We see Deputy States, where the SP has declared itself in favour of the reclassification. I still find that rather special, that you seem to be saying something different here. What is very important to us is that we have considered all these questions and that we have come to the view that Haren alone cannot meet the challenges of the future. It is important for the inhabitants of Haren that a knot be made and that a new administrative story be created.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u82	Mrs Den Boer says very interesting things on behalf of D66. She says: you have on one side the residents, of course, and on the other side the actors in the game. So how about that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u83	In the playing field. I repaired myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u84	In the playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u85	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u86	So apparently, in the idea of D66, you have all kinds of players on the playing field. It's over. And civilians, yeah, they're looking at it from the bleachers or something. May I point out to Mrs Den Boer of D66 that the municipality is not from D66, is not from consultants and is not from the Lower House either? The municipality of Haren belongs to the population of Haren. They are not sitting in the gallery watching the game of politicians and administrators. It's their game. They're at the ball.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u87	That is exactly what I mean, that they simply have to pick up this ball and play the game themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u88	I think Mrs Den Boer is showing on behalf of D66 that she is not a good listener. Not just to me, where she doesn't have the decency to listen, but especially not to the people. The people have taken the ball and said what they think of this. The last time they had a chance to do so was at the referendum, where 75% of the people stood up and 75% of the people said no. Why does Mrs. Den Boer always think she knows everything better on behalf of D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u89	I note that Mr Van Raak is shopping selectively in the texts I have just spoken. I have also congratulated the municipality of Haren for, for example, cutting back and taking up the objective. I'm not compromising any of the players' efforts, including the residents. Everyone's got a move. Residents, society, entrepreneurs, that's what it's all about. But what I also think is very important is that, for example, the Council of State has looked very closely at this and said: yes, this is as it should be. It's gone over all kinds of disks. We in D66 regard this whole process as democratic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u90	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u91	Then I come to the regional context. Also opponents of the merger argue that a reclassification is ultimately inevitable, but they would prefer to see Tynaarlo as a merged municipality. However, Tynaarlo has repeatedly rejected that request for engagement. A reclassification with Groningen and Ten Boer is the only and most logical option for a reclassification. Then the position of Haren in the region. All municipalities around Haren scale up: from 23 to 7 municipalities in the province of Groningen. This changes the position of Haren. It remains small to the rest of the municipalities. This situation is unbalanced and leads to a weaker position of cooperation, whereas cooperation is much needed. D66 can therefore follow the Minister's reasoning that an independent survival of Haren is risky. Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group understands that the results of the reports are not decisive for the inhabitants of Haren. For them, it is mainly about wanting to remain emotionally independent. They don't want to be part of the big city. They fear that they will be seen by Groningen as sweets and that they will be dominated. What is the Minister's response to these concerns? Does she understand these and what's her answer to them? For the D66 Group, it is very important that the many views put forward by the Harenars have been used to shape the future congregation. There was talk with many residents before a governance agreement was drawn up between the new municipalities, which addressed and included concerns about the conservation of the green area, as well as the proximity of the local government, the social domain, the library and the sports facilities in Haren. But how can the Minister guarantee that this administrative agreement will be respected by the new municipality? And how do we also keep room for the individuality of Haren in that new congregation? Mr President, I am coming to a close. My group understands the works council in the municipality of Haren, which states: please make a choice and quickly! Therefore, one final question to the Minister: can the reclassification be achieved in the short term, since the Municipality of Haren has not yet made far-reaching preparations despite the two-track policy that has recently been followed? Finally, Mr President. This reclassification is not an easy choice. My group believes that the unrest, uncertainty and lack of administrative power have lasted long enough. The almost gordian knot must be cut. Let us speed up the creation of the new, effective municipality of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u92	Thank you, Mrs Den Boer. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u93	I am aware that what I am going to say will have no effect on policy, because the people I am taking up are trained here in The Hague, have been selected for their immunity for arguments. They don't listen to what you bring in. The whole point of a debate like this is to stage a sham, to cast a smokescreen, to pretend that arguments have been exchanged and then to get as many people in the country as possible to vote for the parties who over and over again ignore their interests and their wishes. In poor Haren, too, a large amount voted for those parties who are once again losing their interests and desires. People in the Netherlands, look at the people who stand up for you on behalf of those parties you voted for, but actually make policies against you. The Dutch people are being expropriated. We're being expropriated. That goes through the European Union, where all power goes. This goes through the mergers of municipalities, euphemistically referred to as "reclassifications." But the bottom line is that larger and larger conglomerates are being rigged up by professional managers, people who think in powerpoint presentations, people for whom citizens are a figure, a number in an Excelsheet. That kind of people sitting there, people sitting there, from D66, from the VVD, from the CDA, the professional cartel leaders who are trying to destroy democracy in this country. Dutch, watch it happen! Look at it, learn from it, and no longer vote for these parties. 35 municipalities will be redeployed in the next 24 hours. It is a euphemism reminiscent of euphemism "helped," as we also use it for pets. These municipalities are being helped, being reorganised, disappearing into megafusions. In 2015, the CPB showed in a very large report that there is no way to prove that larger municipalities are doing better than smaller municipalities. In other countries, in Germany, in Switzerland, France, there are small municipalities everywhere. That makes sense, too. That has a reason, because in the municipality people can feel that they are ultimately in charge of their own lives. That's where we get hold of our existence. That is where we can first and foremost implement our right to self-determination. That is, as De Tocqueville has already written and as Thorbecke has already written, where the democratic spirit can develop. That's exactly what's being ruined right now. This is not by chance the initiative of the same party that wants to transfer our democracy to the EU at national level and to abolish the referendum. All this is not a coincidence; it is a coincidence. That's part of the same worldview, the same management thinking, the top-down thinking, the merging, and it's very bad for our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u94	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u95	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. A municipality is more than a line on the map or a delimited part of our country. It's where you live, and it matters. It's about living, about working and living, but also about the care you get, about the school you go to and the voice you have in local politics. This also ultimately involves identity, control over your own environment, and the future of a local society. Therefore, the Christian Union is not in favour of municipal scaling-up as such. The Christian Union attaches importance to the individuality of towns and villages, to the involvement of citizens in the decisions that are being taken. They're not there for the government, the government's there for them. Thus, for the Christian Union, the rule is that the government is serviceable to society and its inhabitants. For they deserve good governance and a church that can perform its tasks well for the benefit of the inhabitants and build the future of a congregation. From that perspective, we are also looking at the proposed reclassification of Ten Boer, my former hometown of Haren and my current hometown of Groningen. After a long process, the municipalities of Ten Boer and Groningen agreed to a reclassification. The current city council of Haren has voted against it. However, the government proposes to form a new municipality of Groningen, bringing together Haren and Ten Boer. The administrative power of Haren and Ten Boer and the financial position of these municipalities are seen as vulnerable in the long term and there are doubts as to whether the municipality of Haren will be able to carry out its tasks in the future. The level of provision would also be at risk. The government indicates that it has insufficient confidence in the improvement plans of the Municipality of Haren in order to remain independent. The Christian Union shares these concerns, but the Christian Union also attaches great importance to asking the government at this time for a more detailed explanation of the basis of this position. Mr. Chairman. I have already indicated that it is important for the Christian Union that the individuality of people's living environment is preserved and that residents themselves have influence on it, in the villages, the cores, the neighborhoods and the neighborhoods. That is why we were pleased to read that in the administrative agreement concluded between the three municipalities, agreements were made on that influence of people on their own village, their core, their neighborhood and their neighborhood, and how it should look, that it will not be built in the green, and that the swimming pool, which the inhabitants of Haren have fought for so long, can be preserved. These are important facilities for people's living environment. Can the Minister confirm that the level of provision in Haren and Ten Boer will continue to be maintained and that the administrative agreement will actually be implemented? Mr. Chairman. The proposal to merge is the result of a lengthy and sometimes impetuous process, in which the moods could rise high. Great commitment is nice. At the same time, relations have become complicated. That's too bad. I would ask the Minister to reflect on this process. I would also like to draw the Minister's attention to the follow-up. Does she also see a role for herself to play in improving relations as they are now? Mr. Chairman. I agree with those Members who have said that it is not easy for Parliament to make a choice here today. For the Christian Union, local and regional support is important, and considers that sufficient attention should be paid to the individuality of villages and communities. It is also important for municipalities to be able to carry out their tasks in the longer term, so that municipalities can also serve the inhabitants. Mr. Chairman. All things considered, the Christian Union today can support the government's proposal to merge the municipalities of Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u96	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister needs a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u97	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is the first of four debates that we are holding today and tomorrow on reclassification legislative proposals, or merging municipalities as it is on the official agenda of the Chamber. That is why I would like to begin with a more general introduction. I am not going to do that in the next three debates. Then, of course, I will deal with the redeployment which is the first item on the agenda this evening. In total, we will discuss twelve reclassification proposals in two days, involving some 37 municipalities. And it is indeed the first time for me, I say to Mr Van Raak. If these legislative proposals were adopted, we would go from 380 municipalities now, to 355 municipalities in the Netherlands as of 1 January 2019. This fits in with a long-standing trend in the combination of municipalities. I have taken over these reclassifications, but I would like to point out that local democracy is very much alive in the Netherlands. Many of the reclassifications, by far the most, are from the bottom up. These are municipalities that want to reorganise themselves. As far as I'm concerned, these city councils deserve our support. They deserve to be taken seriously because they take their job, the job they have for the inhabitants of their municipalities, seriously. They want to take good care of their elderly, they want to provide good schools for their children and they want to provide housing for everyone: young people, workers, families, the elderly. They want to ensure orderly financial management for their residents. That's what people want: not arguing politicians, but just getting things done, for the residents. If there is then a reclassification, if a reclassification is proposed and agreed, then that means a change. It does not just mean a change for the municipalities, the civil servants, the city council members and their directors. No, it also means a change for residents, entrepreneurs and civil society organisations active in these municipalities. That's why there's never any ice going over one night. They are careful and often long-term processes. It's often over for years. All the legislative proposals before us today and tomorrow have also gone through that careful process. I would really like to express my appreciation for the municipal councils, for the municipal leaders, for the project leaders, for the provinces, for everyone who has been involved in these processes and has ensured that they work properly. They have all invested in the involvement of the inhabitants of their municipalities. Those inhabitants are perhaps the most important stakeholders in this regard. They should have a voice in it. It's up to us now. It is now up to the legislator to take the next step. It is up to us to take our responsibility now in these pathways. After all these years of research, discussions, participation and meetings, it now lies before the legislator, and that is where it belongs. I think Mr Baudet would very much like to say something. As far as I'm concerned, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u99	As far as I'm concerned, too. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u100	There is always euphemistic talk of'redivisions', as we also euphemistically speak of 'helping' pets when we actually shortwig them, calders, but here we are talking about mergers and the abolition of municipalities. Where does the Minister get the guts to argue that this "reclassification" comes from the bottom up, while 75% of the people in Haren voted against this merger?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u101	I just said that I wanted to start by saying something about all the reclassification proposals in general. I have also called it'merging of municipalities', because I do not like euphemistic language either. In the trend of mergers of municipalities and a decrease in the number of municipalities in the Netherlands, by far the majority of these proposals are made from below, but not all. I will talk later about the reclassification proposal before us, but I was not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u102	No, but the point is that the Minister "from the bottom" means that the people of a municipality speak wrongly and that the city council pronounces on something. Look, as municipalities grow, the remuneration for aldermen also increases. Then the fee for mayor's office in the back of this room will also be bigger. The overall grandeur of management will then be enlarged. So it's not surprising that managers always propose to merge, because then they themselves become more important. The question is, what is "from the bottom" here? Do we call the managers of the municipal councils, the aldermen, the mayors "from below"? That's a really bad idea. You have to ask the people yourself. So you only have to merge if the people in the municipality themselves want to. That's from the bottom. That's democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u103	I have just spoken about the role of the municipal councils. I think it's very important. They were chosen by the inhabitants of their municipalities. I have also expressed my respect and support for municipal councils in general. I don't think we should think of all that from here. I think we should listen carefully to these city councils. I also think that we can leave them to decide whether or not they want to consult on this. That has happened in some cases and not in others. In my list, I may have forgotten the mayors. I certainly didn't miss the fact that they're in our midst today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u104	Finally, Mr Baudet, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u105	Yes, you forgot the mayors. Perhaps you also forgot that all these mayors earn more if the municipalities grow larger and that all those aldermen earn more if the municipalities grow larger. You might also have forgotten to mention that if a council chooses to present it to the citizens themselves and those citizens say no by 75%! We must listen to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u106	So I have just argued that the Councils play an important role in this. These councils in my observation are always about the inhabitants of their congregations. That's what they're there for. Those people are entitled to good facilities. They have a right to ensure that the municipalities carry out their tasks properly. That must be the goal, even in the case of a merger. The city councilmen I know are there for their residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u107	There is Mrs Den Boer from D66, in the field of the D66 Group. They are the representatives of D66 in this Chamber. If the D66 Group decides to abolish D66, will that happen or do the members of D66 have anything to say about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u108	That's a question I'd be happy to answer. I think, but I should check the statutes, that Members have something to say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u109	If the representatives of Haren, in the city council of Haren, want to abolish the city of Haren, can they just do that? Or should they ask the people of Haren first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u110	Merging of municipalities is not a political party. There are no D66 reclassifications or SP reclassifications or PVV reclassifications. There are reclassifications, which are done because of the importance that prevails, and that is the importance of the inhabitants. Residents have, once again, a right to good facilities. Residents have a right to have their finances in order, to have good care for the elderly and to have good investment, whether in homes, in schools or in other facilities. That's what residents are entitled to and that's how it's looked at. This is not just happening from Mr Van Raak's party political glasses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u111	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u112	The Minister is deliberately trying to misunderstand me. Let me ask her: who owns local democracy? Is that from consultants and managers, who make a lot of money out of it? Or is it drivers who come and go? Or is that from council members, who are representatives? Or is the local democracy of the citizens, of the people who live there? The latter is the case. So if you're going to lift local democracy, you're going to have to ask the people who own it. Haren belongs to the people of Haren, and those people said no. That's a fact of life. That may be good or bad for the Minister, but that's the way it is. Any other decision that is now being taken is undemocratic and goes against the local democracy of Haren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u113	Local democracy belongs to all of us. That's one of the most important things we have in this country. I fully agree with Mr Van Raak. Instead of calling on all sorts of doomsdays, Mr Van Raak does so, and some others do so on the destruction of local democracy, I would like to say that local democracy is alive and well. Local democracy continues to exist in all municipalities in the Netherlands, whether or not they have been redeployed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u114	We don't get much further with the questions and the answers. The robotization of politics is increasing. But let me put the question very simply. Do I understand correctly that the Minister, when she says 'bottom-up initiatives', does not mean the citizens, but the municipalities or the municipal councils? Did I get it right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u115	The characteristic of robots, in my opinion, is that they can repeat themselves well. I notice that Mr Bosma repeats himself very well, because in every debate he says the same thing to me. When I said "from the bottom," I did indeed talk about the municipal councils, because I do not think that we should determine here in The Hague with a blueprint about the Netherlands which municipality should belong to which municipality. I think that municipalities can very well decide for themselves. In general, the municipal councils do so. I also think it is up to the municipal councils themselves to decide whether they want to hold a referendum on this issue. Some choose to do so and others choose not to do so. That space is in the Netherlands. I'm glad, because I think that works well. Mr President, I am still at the general introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u116	Yeah, at the beginning, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u117	Let me say that I am pleased with this answer. Because it is often referred to as "from the bottom up" as "citizens." But it is not about citizens, it is about politicians. That is "from the bottom" in this minister's world of thought. At least that seems clear to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u118	Mr. Baudet, why are you running so fast to the interrupting microphone?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u119	Because I'm a sporty person.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u120	You must be very brief, because I would suggest that the Minister should continue. Then you'll have the opportunity to interrupt later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u121	Then I can run again. Good!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u122	No, you may ask your question. Then that's what we've been through.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u123	Is the Minister aware of Article 23 of the D66 Statute?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u124	I have a feeling that's how you're gonna read it, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u125	That's not a yes and not a no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u126	Did you figure that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u127	The Party D66 may be dissolved pursuant to Article 23 of the Statutes of D66 if at least two-thirds of those present at a congress vote for it. So that's over 61%. If 75% of Haren votes against the dissolution of its own municipality, do not take it seriously, while the statutes of your own party already say at a two-thirds majority: then we will follow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u128	I do not know what is in the statutes of the Democracy Forum on this point. I'm glad I have this information now. I have just argued that reclassifications are not a political party. They are not the same as a political party. I'll be right back to the redeployment that's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u129	Then I suggest you move on now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have just said that in recent years some speakers have also said that more and more tasks have gone to the municipality in the social domain, but also in the physical domain. There is an increasing demand from the municipalities. These tasks are more complex and often have to be carried out in cooperation with other parties. For municipalities, the social task must always be central. Implementation must always be organised as close as possible to the citizen. So remembering is not an end in itself. Strengthening the municipalities and the challenges they have for their citizens is an end in itself. So that makes demands. That makes demands on the quality of these municipalities. This makes demands both on the directors and on the officials of those municipalities. The inhabitants can expect that this municipality will perform well. Then it doesn't matter if it's very large, a medium or a smaller municipality. There is no ideal scale, but there is a quality level that all municipalities must achieve for their inhabitants. Mr President, I am a little hesitant, but I would also like to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u131	Mr. Van Raak, I suggest the Minister conclude her introduction. That's what she started. Then you will have the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Good cooperation with neighbouring municipalities, with other educational institutions, with companies and with civil society organisations contributes to the quality and administrative power of the municipality. Therefore, a reclassification is often considered necessary in order to strengthen it. Whether a reclassification lies in reason can best be judged by the municipality itself. I would like to deal with Mr Bishop's comment straight away in my introduction: I fully agree with him. Basically, it's the very best: from the bottom up and voluntary. But practice shows that municipal initiatives sometimes fail, while there is sufficient reason to do so. The province then has this supralocal responsibility, on the basis of which it can best assess that situation. The cabinet also expects the provinces to play an active role in this respect. First moderating, exciting, facilitating, but eventually it may be necessary that the province also uses its perseverance power. I disagree with Mr Bishop on this point. I believe that the provinces have that role and should also take on that role. I appreciate that provinces are doing the same. I realize that a trial like this isn't easy. I also realize that it is not easy for residents of municipalities, villages. If you are born and raised in Haren, Noordwijk or Korendijk, you are attached to your neighborhood and the identity of your community, of your village, of your neighborhood. At the same time, we need municipalities that are sufficiently viable to serve the same inhabitants properly. That is the balance that local directors face, but also provincial directors are faced with. It is therefore a long and intensive process, which ultimately requires a decision by the legislator. I am pleased to see that it is quite possible to do justice to the identity of local communities within a larger municipality. There are good examples in the Netherlands, for example the municipalities of Goeree-Overflakkee, Edam-Volendam or Meijerijstad. These are all examples that show that the old identity in that larger whole has been preserved, felt and experienced by the people who live there. Each village, with its traditional identity, has nevertheless become part of a larger whole, in which the quality of service has improved. It is my role as Minister of BZK to assess proposals for reclassifications on the basis of the criteria of the policy framework reclassification.................................................................................................................................................................................. That's my job, too. That is the whole of the administrative power, of which I have just said what it means: support, internal cohesion, balanced regional relations, sustainability for the future. I believe that the reclassification proposals from tonight and tomorrow are all in line with that. In all cases, it is a careful consideration, and these criteria are assessed in conjunction. Of all the reclassifications I've taken over from my predecessor, there's actually only one that didn't comply. That was the proposed reclassification of Landgraaf-Heerlen. He didn't live up to it. That is what the cabinet said: then we should not take over and not go through with it. Mr. Chairman. Having said that, I would now like to comment on the bill on Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u133	To begin with, the compliments for the Heerlen-Landgraaf case. The minister started with something else. On the question of why reclassifications are needed, she says that municipalities have been given many tasks, that they must be able to perform them properly and that these, those and sisters or so demands are made. So the minister is very motivated by management: there are all kinds of tasks given to municipalities and that needs to be managed properly. Does the Minister also have an eye for democracy, for communities where people feel at home, for the right scale of municipalities and for how municipalities can be a political reflection of those communities? Why doesn't the Minister take that as a starting point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u134	No, that's also a starting point. I agree with Mr Van Raak. That local democracy is important. The community is important. I just said something about identity. It's important, too. I really do distance myself from the fact that this is a matter of management or managers. Not at all, because I have emphasised that it is about what people in municipalities in the Netherlands are entitled to. It is about things that are very close to us all, such as caring for the elderly and the schools for our children. It is also about the investments that a municipality makes to ensure in the long term that it keeps a pleasant, green environment. It is also important that the municipality has enough and good housing built and takes good care of the greenery. That's what I'm talking about. So Mr Van Raak can drop the word "management" or "consultant" here every time, but that is not at all my concern. The fewer managers, the better it's me. It is a question of providing services to citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u135	It's really weird, isn't it? The minister says she wants to give all these tasks to the municipalities, because she thinks it is as close to the citizen as possible. Thanks to these tasks, all these municipalities will be abolished and they will all become bigger and larger and larger. We already have municipalities with 50 or 80 cores, and soon with 100 cores. How can you speak of a municipality in a municipality with 80, 90 or 100 cores? Then how can a village or city be a political reflection of that municipality? You can't do that anymore, can you? Then you've ruined local democracy, haven't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u136	Well, perhaps Mr Van Raak should ask that in a number of municipalities that have opted for a reclassification and indeed consist of a multitude of village centres, but that have finally seen the service improve. Those inhabitants are very satisfied with their reminiscent communities. They still recognize themselves in the old core, where they still live, where not so much has changed at all, where they are well cared for and where the quality of the facilities has gone up. This is all thanks to the fact that they have become part of a larger whole, which can provide more professional and better for what the inhabitants are entitled to. It is not an end in itself, but often happens on the initiative of the municipalities themselves, to be able to take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u137	Finally, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u138	Do you know what reality is? That in the fifteen years I have been discussing reclassifications and aggregations here, I sometimes even come to places where I think: hey, I've been here before, because there has been a reclassification here before. I speak there people who still say: after that previous reclassification we have never become the same and my village is no longer the municipality it was. That's not a misplaced nostalgia or a romantic image of the past. That has everything to do with the community's governance being close. Town halls are now being closed down, so people have to move on and every change that is being made in the municipality is flown in by all kinds of consultants and expensive managers. Then people get estranged from their congregation. Now we have a good example: Haren. It was one of the few opportunities for people to speak out. People have spoken out. Why don't we listen to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u139	I have just come to answer the questions on the subject on which Mr Van Raak has also asked questions, namely the bill on Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer. Of course I know that this reclassification has called for a lot of involvement from people in Haren, and by the way also from people in Groningen and Ten Boer. I also know that it has evoked a lot of emotion among the inhabitants of especially Haren. I very much appreciate the fact that people are so active, that they are so committed, that they have united on a citizens' committee and that they are arguing for their cause, which they think is a good thing. It's only beautiful to let people hear from them. I think that's how it works in our democracy. Nevertheless, following the initiative taken by the province, a reclassification proposal is before the legislator. It is a difficult dossier and a difficult choice has to be made. The reason why the province has proposed this and that the cabinet has taken over this is that something must be done. Something has to happen in Haren. I think the people in Haren see that for themselves, but the reclassification proposal that is before us is not the proposal that everyone wants. I realize that very well. May I begin by saying that the municipalities of Groningen and Ten Boer have also worked very hard on this in recent years? They've been extremely cooperative, actually throughout the process. The municipality of Ten Boer has more than 7,000 inhabitants and has been working closely with Groningen for about ten years, or even longer. The administrative apparatus of the municipality of Groningen carries out most of the tasks of both municipalities. This cooperation has become known, and I believe Mr Van der Molen has just said it as the Ten Boer model. We have just talked about it: with the increasingly complex social issues, these two municipalities were on the view that a reclassification would strengthen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u140	We hear Mrs Ollongren say that there was a problem, that there was a big issue and that something had to happen: therefore, this reclassification. What is she talking about? What problem? There's nothing going on in Haren. Hair's doing great! That is also why 75% of the population voted against abolition. The same applies to most of the other municipalities which are now being dissolved. There's no problem. There's nothing wrong! All we see is power hungry politicians and managers, who want to increase their influence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u141	I have just said, in response to Mr Van Raak, that I am far from throwing that kind of thing. The image "there's nothing wrong; go to sleep quietly" doesn't add up either. I come to a number of specific questions raised by Mr Baudet and others on the future prospects for the municipality of Haren. And...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u142	Yeah, but that's not how it works here in Lower House. You can't just say you're gonna come up with that again, can you? Or not, or I know what. No, as Members of Parliament, we may say: this is not clear, explain this. And then it's up to the Minister to explain. It is not appropriate to say "oh, I'll come up with that again later," and perhaps not to go into it. Explain it to us! What problem is the removal of Haren the solution to?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u143	The Minister is working on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u144	Sure. I just outlined a process that led to Groningen and Ten Boer choosing to merge. I will also tell you why Haren would join this reclassification; at least that has been taken into account. That was the attitude of the other two municipalities. In the end, in 2016, the Province decided that it was in the interest of all parties that Haren would join this reclassification. There are over 19,000 inhabitants in Haren. It borders on the other, since this year scaled up municipality of Central Groningen and indeed borders on Drenthe. And...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u145	I'm sorry, but that's really not the point. The question is, what's the problem? What...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u146	No, Mr. Baudet, you need to let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u147	So this reclassification has a very long history. The provisional decision, which started in around 2008 and led in 2013 to the decision of a reclassification of Groningen and Ten Boer, was part of the campaign of the municipal elections in 2014. And then came the referendum. The gentlemen who are now at the interrupting microphone, at least two of them, have now often pointed this out. The result of this consultation was that the inhabitants did not agree with the proposed decision at the time. Following that outcome, the conversation was held in 2015 with Tynaarlo. Some of the speakers here have asked for this. The municipality of Tynaarlo, however, has announced that it is not open to a reclassification with Haren. So it was not easy to find out what would be a future-proof answer to the question of how to proceed. That's where the county jumped. Then you can say...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u148	No, Mr. Baudet, you're shouting all kinds of things, but the Minister isn't finished with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u149	Then you can say, for example, is the financial position of Haren so risky that a forced aggregation is justified? Is it true that it isn't necessary, as they say? Is it true that the burden will increase sooner in the case of a merger? I'd say it's not just about Haren's financial position. It's not good, but the city isn't about to fall over. It is actually a combination of factors, one of which is the fragile financial position of Haren. Several reports have been published. It concluded that the independence of Haren entails risks: social risks and financial risks. The province, which has acted carefully, has carried out a risk analysis and has also concluded that the financial position of Haren is not stable. This is due to the high debt position, the low solvency, a limited scope to raise taxes and a limited reserve position. This offers very little financial space to the municipality of Haren to cope with financial setbacks. That's worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u150	I see that Mr Baudet wishes to intervene, but I would like to look at the Minister if she is ready with the answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u151	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u152	Mr. Baudet, take it easy. You'll have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u153	Yeah, but there's something at stake, because this way of thinking is totalitarian. This is exactly the kind of thinking that can ultimately limit all forms of freedoms, citizens, institutions, municipalities, countries, because there is a risk of financial insolvency and so on. Then why do we still have the freedom to spend our own salary, for example? Because there's a risk of being unsolvable. Indeed, your party was leading the way in making Greece completely powerless and putting democracy out of play, because there was a risk that the country would not be solvent. This is a totalitarian way of thinking. There's a risk that a small democratic community... you'd almost start thinking about Asterix and Obelix. Hair, the small village that resists the totalitarian management drive of people like Ollongren. None of that's supposed to happen. This must be cut short, because there is a theoretical risk of financial problems. What an incredibly undemocratic way of thinking!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u154	I want to respond to that. I have not heard a question from Mr Baudet. But the financial position of Haren offers very little space for the future, to invest...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u155	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u156	No, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u157	I'm sorry, but this is just scary! This is really absurd.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u158	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u159	There is such a thing as a democratic right to self-determination. We all experience this every day when we are allowed to spend our own money, if we are allowed to shape our own household. Municipalities are allowed to govern themselves. Countries are allowed to govern themselves. And here is a representative of a party who wants to cut it all short, who wants to deprive countries of their sovereignty, those municipalities, because there is a theoretical risk of ever being insolvent, wants to crawl...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u160	You've made your point, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u161	...wants to be housed in conglomerates. If you go through this way of thinking, you're going to put people under curate at some point. Then you're gonna take away all our freedoms. Wrong, that's what's happening! Ollongren wants to restrict the free internet. That's what's at stake here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u162	Mr. Baudet...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u163	They are two fundamentally opposite views of society: freedom against totalitarian management.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u164	You've already said that, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u165	It is a very interesting debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u166	Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u167	I don't know if the Minister still needs to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u168	I'd be happy to. If Mr Baudet is dealing with Greece, I am dealing with the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u169	The Minister is talking about her own answers, Mr Bosma. Let's go back to the trial the minister was talking about. She sketched how Groningen and Ten Boer grew to each other after an intimate engagement and are now approaching a wedding day. That's a nice process. I've identified it as an organic process. While that marriage is about to be concluded, Haren is being dragged with her hair. I think there's a big part of the pain in there. There has been no opportunity to enter into a relationship with Groningen in an organic process. Nor has it been the choice of Haren, I say immediately. That's Haren's right. But judging by the appreciation for the Groningen/Ten Boer process, isn't it the time to force Haren to get on that wedding boat with Groningen? That's one point. Can I make a second point right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u170	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u171	The Visitation Committee was extensively interviewed on this subject, including during the work visit. She has once again expressly indicated that she did not have the space to look over the provincial border towards the neighboring village. It is true that the relationship at that time was not such that a marriage could be made. But there was and there is still a basis for the first eyes in love, for a beautiful dating that can eventually lead to a beautiful lasting, stable, long-term relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u172	You're getting more romantic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u173	It's getting a little late in the evening. Sometimes that's what you get. Isn't this a much better route?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u174	Indeed, the romantic in Mr Bishop woke up. We need more debates at this time of day, Mr. Bishop. Look, I didn't sketch for nothing the process that's been going on for years. For a number of years now, more or less, Haren itself has been questioning what the future should look like. I have just outlined a combination of factors, the financial situation of which is one. There are risks. In the past the Drenthe municipality of Tynaarlo has indeed been looked at. We're dealing with a different merger/reclassification these days that does go beyond county boundaries. In my view, there is no fundamental rejection of mergers across county boundaries. No, there's something else going on here. The Drenthe municipality of Tynaarlo itself rejected the reclassification with Haren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u175	People in the public gallery, I understand that emotions may rise in this debate, but it is absolutely not your intention to express your disapproval or approval in any way. It's hard, I understand that, but you really can't say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u176	This was noted in 2013. During the debate, it was also noted that the mayor of Tynaarlo did not express any support for a reclassification of Tynaarlo with Haren during a hearing on this reclassification. A sum of the considerations of Tynaarlo in 2013 and everything that happened afterwards leads me to conclude that a reclassification with Tynaarlo is not an alternative to the reclassification that exists here. The visitation committee has been cited a number of times. I could repeat that. Mr Bisschop also knows that the municipality of Midden-Groningen has just been established. It now focuses on the design of itself. I understand that very well. So it is not appropriate to think that Haren can still be part of that. In short, if you look at the field around Haren, that actually only leads to one option and that is the option that is now before you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u177	There is an important difference. Indeed, the Minister is right to say that at the moment there is no possible or acceptable merger towards Tynaarlo. However, there has been a strong willingness to cooperate. That's why I'll come back to it. This provides a basis for starting an organic process. We all know that cooperation leads to a follow-up at some point, but that sometimes just takes time. We give local democracy the full pound if we give that space. In that sense, I am in favour of being positive about that other option, that Drenthe variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u178	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u179	I think that can get a lot of venom, the stinger, out of the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u180	I think Mr Bishop is not only a romantic, but I also think he is very sympathetic in this debate. I would just like to point out to him that he himself has just underlined that this is not the beginning of something, but a journey that has really been going on for a very long time. In my opinion, various actors, including the two other municipalities, including the province of Groningen, have done their best to go through a careful process and finally come up with a proposal that is well-founded, workable and future-proof. Instead of sketching a different view that actually has little certainty, I would say: let's have the courage to say about what is now in store, where a lot of time and energy has gone into, which has a careful history, let's just do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u181	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u182	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. If only all options could be explored freely by the Visitation Committee. There's a bottleneck over there. This was also explicitly discussed during the working visit. There was no room to adequately examine this Drenthe variant. As a result, so much bad blood has been put in place and so much mistrust has arisen. Once again, I would like to give the Minister an explicit consideration to reconsidering that aspect of the whole process. At least that is what I expect could give rise to a more nuanced and broader debate on this Drenthe variant, including towards the coalition partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u183	It may be, but then I'm going to go a little bit on smooth ice because it played in 2013. Also the visiting committee played, if I have read the pieces correctly, in that year. So that was close to Tynaarlo's statement. That could have been a part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u184	Then Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u185	Yeah, but we don't live in 2013. A lecture started today in Tynaarlo and that just opens the door very clearly. They want to work together, but that's not what my question is about. My question is about solvency. When I look at the figures and when I look at the budget for the coming years, I see that the situation of Haren is many times better than that of Groningen. Haren's made a fantastic cut. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u186	The financial position of Haren................................................................................................................... No. I also see that the current College of Haren has taken steps in this direction. Improvements have been made. Nor have you heard me say that the financial position of the city of Groningen is so much better. That's not the point right now. The point is that the financial position of the Municipality of Haren is not considered sufficiently future-proof. Good research has been done on that. The province has also taken a good look at this. Despite the fact that steps have been taken, it is said that the combination of the high debt position, the low solvency, the limited scope to increase burdens and the limited reserve position means that Haren as a municipality does not really have any room to cope with financial setbacks. That could be much better in this larger context. This reduces the financial risks for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u187	I have the statistics of what it looks like in the years to come. Then you can see that the line of Haren really runs up very nicely and that of Groningen doesn't. It's bad and it stays bad. In fact, you say to the municipality of Haren: "Thank you very much for the cuts, but you did it for nothing. For it is not a austerity for the municipality of Haren, but for the municipality of Groningen." I don't think that makes the people in Haren very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u188	I don't think the mission of the Municipality of Haren, nor of any other municipality, is to make cuts per se. The task of the municipalities in the Netherlands is to ensure that they have a sound financial position, precisely in order to be able to invest in their municipality. And now there are doubts about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u189	Then Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u190	Mr President, I would like to raise this point. One of the elements I raised on behalf of the CDA Group was the longer-term financial position. The Minister always refers to the report, which I have also referred to, which stated that it is difficult in the long term. I asked the Minister a very clear question. They've taken steps. I would now like to ask the Minister's assessment of sustainability in the longer term. I have heard a number of things about this if it does not fall over and so on, but I would like to hear it as sharply from the Minister. Is the Minister still of the opinion that Haren's finances are not sustainable in the longer term and that there is still a reason for reclassification? That's got to be a little sharp on the table, as far as the CDA is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u191	Mr Van der Molen asked that question. I have just argued that the financial situation has improved, among other things because of the sharp cuts in recent times. As a result, there has been a slight increase in solvency and a budget surplus. The assessment is therefore somewhat longer-term. Is this a route towards a stable situation, a situation in which any financial setbacks and financial problems can be overcome? My opinion is that this is not the case. My opinion is that there is too great a risk that the municipality of Haren will not be able to cope with these kinds of setbacks in the future and thus not really be able to be sure in the future that it can stand on its own feet. The debt position is too high. It's increasing. The increased solvency continues to fall into the risk category. So the answer to Mr Van der Molen's question is yes. That financial situation and the financial risks are, in my opinion, too great.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u192	I also linked the position of the province to that, because the Minister also said that the province was right to take the lead. The Minister indicated that finance was a major issue in this respect. Can the Minister indicate, for my clarity, whether there were any additional points on the basis of which she found it right to direct the province? That is what the CDA Group believes is important to know whether, in the view of the Minister, the direction has been taken, because that is indeed contrary to the choice of the municipality itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u193	My opinion is that the direction has indeed been rightly taken by the province and that the province has done so in a careful way. This is a combination of a number of factors, one of which is the financial position of the municipality. But I think you should also see it in the context of the other options. I said just now, if you look at the map, at the new municipality of Midden-Groningen, at the geographical position of Haren and at how far the cooperation and later merger of the two municipalities of Groningen and Ten Boer is going to be, then I understand very well that the province says: given the fact that we are now where we are, after all these years, after all these investigations, after the loss of other options and the lack of alternatives, now is the time to take over the direction. That's what the county did. I think the county made sense about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u194	Sir... I don't know who was before. Mr. Bosma? Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u195	The minister says that this reclassification must be made, because Haren is financially in danger of falling over and Tynaarlo has shut the door. But when I see Haren's budget, it is financially fine, even in the longer term, the solvency. The Minister says, "Yes, but in the future, that might happen." Yeah, that goes for every city. With that argument, therefore, we should abolish all smaller municipalities. So that argument doesn't last. Tynaarlo has a new college, a new situation has arisen. They have explicitly opened the door. Now, together with 50PLUS, the SP has tabled an amendment to remove at least Haren from this reclassification. Is the Minister prepared to hold on to this reclassification for a moment? The COELO also looked at Haren's finances. This centre that researches local authorities and their finances, also says: in the long term, very stable. Is the Minister prepared to contact Tynaarlo again and ask whether it is true that the door is not closed anymore but is at least in a crack, or even a little open?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u196	First of all, Mr Van Raak puts words in my mouth that I have not spoken. I just said that I know that the city of Haren is not in a financial situation. I just said that in response to Baudet and others. I said that Haren's financial situation has also improved. The college has worked hard to do that. That's very good. Nevertheless, it is our responsibility here, but also the responsibility of the province and of the municipalities individually not only to look at the here and now and whether further savings can be made, but also to see whether the financial position is good enough to cover risks and setbacks in the future. That's where the doubts lie. That's where the risks are when it comes to Haren's financial position. Then Mr Van Raak says that circumstances have changed. He's got some clues that Tynaarlo is looking at it differently now. I take it, of course, that's true. That does not alter the fact that there is a whole history of a number of years attached to this. The bill's been here for some time. If the processes have gone according to the rules of the game as we have set them out, namely according to the policy framework for the reclassifications, and are in conformity with the law, and if the actors who are supposed to act in them have done their work properly, properly, transparently and neatly, then I think it is our responsibility as legislator to judge them, regardless of whether a circumstance has just changed today or yesterday. You have to weigh it all. That leads me to defend what's in store here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u197	I am increasingly hearing a repetition of questions, but also of answers. So I just want to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u198	I made a concrete proposal. I would like to repeat that, because the Minister did not reply. The Minister mentioned two arguments. The Minister mentioned two arguments: Haren does not have enough money and Tynaarlo does not want to cooperate. I see that Haren's budget is well in order. I see that research institute COELO says: it must succeed in the longer term. And I see that in Tynaarlo they have opened the door ajar or even opened it. These are new facts, new circumstances which justify this reclassification. That is why I ask the Minister if she is prepared to hold on to this reclassification, ask for further investigation at COELO and make a call to Tynaarlo to see how things stand. Because if the arguments for the reclassification lapse, then the need for a reclassification also lapses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u199	This is exactly the same question, Mr. Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u200	It is indeed the same answer that I have just given, but I call on Mr Van Raak to take account of all that has happened until the time when this bill was sent to your Chamber, until the moment when we are discussing it here, to also show respect for the province and others, who have properly fulfilled their role, to their honour and conscience. That weighs a lot for me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u201	Mrs Özütok. Oh, no, Mr. Bosma first. You shouldn't keep going for a walk, because I'll skip you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u202	Well, I'm getting so nervous. You have all kinds of ways to look at the business health of a company or an organization. You have liquidity and a lot of other terms. Solvency is perhaps the most important thing in there when looking at the future, because solvency is about the relationship between equity and debt. If your solvency is high, there's a lot of equity that you own, I'll tell you about your debts. This determines, for example, whether you can continue to receive credit in the future. If you have high solvency, you're healthy and you have a lot of chances for the future. Haren has a solvency ratio of 26%. And again, solvency predicts, as far as possible, the business health of an organisation. With such high solvency, you can only conclude that the municipality's economic health is excellent and that there is no reason to doubt Haren's longer-term health?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u203	I have just outlined a number of factors. Solvency is one of them. Debt is another. The options to increase the burden are a third. The limited reserve position is a fourth. All that, that complex of factors leads to this conclusion. That's not just my conclusion. That is also the conclusion of the researchers who have looked at it. That is also the province's conclusion, namely that the scope for dealing with financial setbacks in the future is very small, and that is worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u204	Haren's financial position has been slightly improved by cuts made. That's right. Can the Minister answer the question as to what these cuts mean in the light of the future provision of services to citizens, the maintenance of provisions for citizens and the implementation of new tasks for Haren?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u205	If a municipality has to cut back and intern on equity, then of course it has an impact on the financial space that a municipality has to invest in its own municipality in order to properly implement the provisions that the residents are entitled to. So if Mrs Özütok asks if it is possible that services to the citizens of Haren are affected by the organisation of finances, then the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u206	I would like to ask the Minister to see if... I think a lot of questions have been asked in the first period, including by means of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u207	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u208	What questions haven't been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u209	I'll just browse through my remaining papers as soon as I can. Because I do believe that a great deal has already been answered in the event of interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u210	Knowing the MPs, they come back to it when a question has remained.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u211	I think I have already answered the question about the municipal policy framework, unless Mr Krol wants to know more about it. Mr Krol had a specific question...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u212	Mr Krol. Maybe it's the same question...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u213	Before you answer that question, I have a question about the previous one. Do you know if the new budget of the town of Haren has been approved by the province?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u214	The new budget is, I suppose, not yet. So you are talking about this year's budget, which was drawn up last year. As far as I know, it's been approved by the county.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u215	And do you know if the city of Groningen's budget has been approved by the province?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u216	I think so, but I'll have to check it out. I don't have that ready here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u217	Where do you want to go, Mr. Krol?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u218	I looked it up. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u219	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u220	Mr Krol has now pointed this out to me. Thank you. I would like to answer his question as to whether the province was involved in the answer I gave to your Chamber. The answer is yes. For it is very common that, when questions are asked, for example, about the action of a province or a judgment of the province, that province is involved, that it provides or controls factual information. Finally, as Mr Krol himself said, the province is best informed of the financial situation of the municipalities as a financial supervisor. But the province is obviously not the only source of information. The answers are based on all the documents available to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mr Krol also asked whether it was true that no court had jurisdiction to correct a province during a reclassification procedure. That's right. The court does not assess whether a province has complied with the procedural rules laid down in the General Rules Act during a reclassification procedure. That judgment is up to the legislator. That's what we are here with each other. And since, of course, the judge respects the judgment of the government and parliament, the judge does not express his opinion at this stage about what is happening, but the judge awaits the judgment of you and me. Mr Bosma quoted a recently published book by Mr Voermans and Mr Waling. What Mr Voermans and Mr Waling are pointing out is, in my view, a good point, which I too have in mind and which I think is important, is that, in increasing a municipality by merging, you risk increasing the distance between the representatives of the people and the citizens. It is mainly up to the city council members themselves to take that into account. It is mainly up to the reclassification municipalities to ensure that citizens continue to recognize themselves not only in their own neighborhood, their own village or their own core, but also in their board of directors in their city council. Voermans and Waling also note that there is no causality due to reclassification and any lower turnout rates in municipal elections. The only way to find out is by looking at the relationship between turnout and reclassification in municipalities themselves. That is the advice of both authors. We have often seen that the politicians, the council members, are making an extra effort to involve the inhabitants. This has often been done at the preliminary stage in the development of the proposal, and that is what happens afterwards, precisely in order to shape this new cooperation, the proximity of the administration to its inhabitants. Mr. Chairman. I've arrived at another question, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u221	Then we have read the same book in a different way, because when I read the book by Mr Waling and Mr Voermans, people write that immediately after the reclassification 2.5% less is voted. The Central Planning Bureau states that this effect will be eliminated. Municipalities that have increased significantly have a permanent decline, even after seven elections. Professor Voermans says that that influence is almost certainly there and points to those turnout figures. Mr Voermans is certainly trying to make the point that local democracy is under pressure, at least in the sense that citizens are going to vote less. It is pointed out, for example, that the turnout rates in national elections, such as the Lower House, and the local elections continue to vary. That difference is getting bigger and bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u222	In general, this is true and there is a large difference in the turnout rate between national and local. We saw a very small increase in the previous municipal elections, but perhaps a reversal of the trend. To come back to the book of Voermans and Waling: on page 213 it says that there is no causality due to the reclassification and the turnout rate. He is indeed saying that the CPB supports that this is likely to be a temporary reduction in the turnout. But in any case, the point of the book.. pays attention to the risk of increasing the distance between the municipality and the inhabitants of the new municipality...................................................................................................................................... I think that most of the administrators of municipalities in the Netherlands have that book on the bookshelf by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u223	This is exactly what the European Union always does. There they say: yes, there is a democratic deficit; interestingly, we should think about that. No, the point is that as municipalities grow and as administrative units grow, the involvement of citizens in the administration decreases. That is an inversely proportional relationship, which, of course, is not entirely linear. Waling and Voermans and others are, of course, sufficiently trained in statistics to understand that this does not go one-on-one, but it does reduce the involvement of citizens as the administrative unit increases. That is an argument, a democratic argument, against mergers and before decentralisation, before small scale.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u224	I don't know any studies that generally do this. I think you have big cities with hugely involved citizens and smaller municipalities where that is less so. I have also argued that, as far as I am concerned, there is no ideal scale that says that there must be so many thousand inhabitants or so many hundred thousand inhabitants. No, the Netherlands will soon consist of about 355 municipalities, which are very different in scale. However, I do think that there is a need for a certain degree of flexibility in terms of the quality that people can expect from the services and all that municipalities have to perform in the interests of their inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u225	But it is the citizens themselves who provide these services, isn't it? That's democracy, isn't it? It is the citizens, the inhabitants of the municipality themselves who decide by the people they choose or by the people who run for office, how good will those services be? Exactly this remark betrays your fundamentally undemocratic thinking. It seems, therefore, that it is about management, it is apparently about managers who can provide certain services from above, and so on, rather than about the people themselves who claim ownership of their congregation and thus improve the quality of the services.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u226	This is gonna be a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u227	I see that differently and have just argued that. Very briefly. The municipal councils have a controlling function and determine the policy. The service is about how our elders are taken care of, what schools are there for our children...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u228	This is also what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u229	... whether there are enough homes for starters and so on. I have indeed said that, Mr President, so let me not repeat it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u230	Well, then I'd like to see if you're gonna finish up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u231	Yes. A few people haven't had an answer before. I have a question or ten more. Mrs Özütok and others asked about the accessibility of the facilities. In this new municipality, a board agreement has been concluded, at least between Groningen and Ten Boer, with the involvement of Haren. Agreement has been reached on the maintenance of the facilities. That administrative agreement shall contain concrete measures. It is about the services that I was just talking about, the facilities that people are entitled to, the spatial developments and, for example, sports facilities. That's very concrete. It's an agreement that indicates exactly what people will be able to count on. Everyone will abide by that agreement as well. Mrs Van der Graaf had asked the same question, and so did Mrs Den Boer. Mrs Özütok also asked about the green strip between Groningen and Haren. The administrative agreement explicitly states that the open green area of that rural area is preserved. This will have to be included in the environmental vision for these areas. There must be safeguards to ensure that this is done. In the transitional area between Groningen and the villages Haren and Ten Boer will not be built until at least 2040. The same applies to the so-called "green lung" between Groningen and Haren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u232	Mr. Van Raak, we're having another debate after this, aren't we? You know that, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u233	Yes, but the Minister always talks about an administrative agreement. Then who in Haren was that board agreement concluded with?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u234	That governance agreement was concluded between Groningen and Ten Boer, with the involvement of Haren. That's just how I formulated it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u235	But Haren didn't participate in that governance agreement. So you're going to reassure all the people in Haren with a governance agreement that the people in Haren are not involved in, which the council members in Haren are not involved in, which the directors in Haren are not involved in, which no one in Haren is involved in? That doesn't give us much faith.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u236	This may be in line with Mrs Den Boer's question from D66. She asked whether this reclassification, of which this administrative agreement and these agreements are of course an important part, can still be achieved in the short term, given that Haren did not participate in the same way as the other two municipalities. If this law is adopted, if this reclassification becomes a fact, then I am convinced that the three municipalities will be able to work together and in good consultation on the formation of the new municipality. Then it is also about the points I have just mentioned. The fact that some of the necessary preparations have already been made by two of the three municipalities means that the third municipality must be given the space to join that preparation. I am convinced that Haren can do that and that the other two will give that space.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u237	A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u238	That's interesting, that governance agreement. Is that on paper, too? Can we have that? That is my first question: can we just look at how we are going to live up to it in the future? Because it's just the panacea for all the ailments we're finding today. Secondly, the town of Haren will no longer exist. So it's not a party to that governance agreement we've never seen, and they're not gonna exist anymore. Then how the hell are they supposed to keep Groningen's administration agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u239	I don't know any better than the board agreement is public information. I'll see if anyone can confirm that. Yeah, that's right. So that should already be available. I just said that if this reclassification continues in this way, Haren should have the opportunity to adjust that leg and become part of the whole. Of course, it has a long history. Haren has had a good look at it, but it has to come out in good consultation. If reclassifications from the bottom should be preferred, but there could still be exceptions, this would be the exception. This means, of course, that the cooperation which, after the adoption of the reclassification law, must lead to the formation of a new municipality, for Haren and for the inhabitants of Haren, is not only a new fact, but also a reality in which they will have to get the space, and will undoubtedly take it, to recognize their commitment and their desires in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u240	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u241	I have a very short and simple question. If Haren no longer exists and the new municipality of Groningen doesn't comply with the magical government agreement, how is the municipality of Haren, which then no longer exists, supposed to comply with that government agreement? What title do they have to do that for?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u242	The administrative agreement, which already exists and in which the two other municipalities have confidence, is the basis for the merger. That should be exactly the same for Haren. It's not like people are gonna wake up in a new town tomorrow. No, adopting this bill is an important step. After that, the merger has to be completed. And eventually, of course, there will be municipal elections. And then there's a new city council. But until then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u243	No, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u244	...there are still some steps to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u245	Let me make a final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u246	I get a lot of answers, but no answer to my question. It's very simple. I don't think Haren's gonna exist anymore. How will Haren, which then no longer exists, be able to challenge itself to what title, under what laws and what right to ensure that that administrative agreement, in which it has never participated, is implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u247	The administrative agreement, which I have just argued that Haren should be able to recognise himself in it as well, has just been referred to as the green lung; this will be an important point which must be the basis for cooperation. That, of course, has meaning. There are very concrete things in that. The new municipality will have to work from that starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u248	Of course, the fact that there is some scepticism about the governance agreement and its implementation also has to do with the process. You can see that, too. I think it is fair to say that the Minister cannot give guarantees. It would be very strange if the Minister of the Interior could give a guarantee from the House of Representatives about the implementation of an administrative agreement. I would like to say a few words about this resistance. I have not yet spoken to the Minister in detail about this. I agree with the Minister that we should also look at the city council. But he really voted against two thirds in Haren. I would like to hear from the Minister about this, because that is one of the missing issues that I have raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u249	Mr Van der Molen is, of course, right to say that this is an administrative agreement between municipalities and that it is local democracy that is about and decides. I have just spoken about the resistance on two levels: the resistance of the people in Haren, who are also present here today, and the resistance in the city council itself. The legislator shall give his opinion. That's what we're being asked to do. The question is: if the new reality arises, how can we work on it with the involvement of everyone, including those who were not initially in favour of it, that in that new reality, in that new situation, the interests of the people of Haren are sufficiently protected?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u250	That is not an answer to the question I asked. At least I think so. It's a tough question, too, so I'm gonna ask him again. How does the Minister weigh it? The Minister refers to Provincial States. They're democratically elected. We too have been democratically elected here. So it's complicated, I understand. But the question was: how did the minister weigh it? The Minister weighed this and said: I am sending the proposal to the Chamber. How did you weigh that the city council of Haren voted against?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u251	I think, just as the province and the previous cabinet have weighed that, that of course counts. You don't go too easy until at first a role for the province. From the bottom is preferable, if possible. But I have just outlined that there are other factors against the resistance I have named, which I see and understand, namely the lack of an alternative, concern about the future of an independent municipality of Haren and believe in the perspective offered by the merger of these three municipalities, including the inhabitants of Haren, for those things to which the inhabitants of each municipality of the Netherlands are entitled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u252	Mr. Van Raak, I'd like to suggest to the Minister that we finish. You also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u253	Yes, but this is a point... otherwise I have to make a point of order. Actually, I'd rather not. It's about that board agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u254	You just asked a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u255	Yeah, but I just looked where that is. Apparently, a governance agreement has been concluded for Haren, but no one in Haren has participated and no one knows what it says. So I ask the Minister: who concluded that agreement for Haren and what does it say? And can she send it to the Chamber before we finish the debate here? Then there's my second question. The minister says that Haren should be involved in that governance agreement soon. But how can that be if that congregation has been dissolved?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u256	That is exactly the question that Mr Bosma has asked. Let's talk about the board agreement first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u257	The board agreement is, to my knowledge, just public. I can make it available in second term. I see someone waving a piece of paper, so I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u258	Good. Well, then that's settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u259	And Mr Van Raak also knows that it is not just about the legal facts. The legal reality is, of course, important. At the moment when a bill is passed that says that the reclassification will take place, that is a legal fact. Nevertheless, it is also about people, municipalities, who are going to work on the new, merged municipality. That is the time when, as far as I am concerned, the administrative agreement between two municipalities, Groningen and Ten Boer... Haren has been able to take note of this, but of course is not yet part of it. Of course, that will have to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u260	Good. Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u261	Yeah, then I'm gonna move on and then I'm gonna round up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u262	Because I also see that the people of Haren are now leaving the public gallery. They're still on their way for three hours to get home. And we have another debate after this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u263	All right, Mr. Chairman. I have one more question. Mr Van der Molen mentioned it as an absolute low point that one of the delegates, Mr Brouns, had to do with aggression and violence. He was talking about personal security. I think that Mr Van der Molen and I, as well as everyone else in this Chamber, agree that any form of aggression or violence against a deputy or anyone else who plays a role in our public administration is unacceptable. I totally agree with him. It is precisely democracy, and also local democracy, which we cherish here, that is to the benefit of ensuring that people can carry out this function undisturbed and safe. All the delegates work for us, for the community. It is not appropriate that they should be afraid of this kind of thing. So I would like to underline very much what Mr Van der Molen said about this. Finally, I have one question and then the amendment, Mr President. Mrs Den Boer asked how to preserve the individuality, in this case of Haren. At the very beginning, I have already mentioned examples of other municipalities that have been merged and in which the villages, the cores, have preserved their own identity, their own characteristics and their own culture. There has been good experience of this. This must of course happen again in every new merged municipality. As many municipalities as the Netherlands is rich, so many differences are there, and that is also the case when these municipalities start working together. So you have to take that into account in the design of course. You could do that by doing more with participation in such a municipality, in addition to the ordinary representative democracy. You have to pay extra attention to this in the first few years, as has also been noted in the book of Voermans. Mr. Chairman. All I have left is the amendment tabled by Mr Krol on behalf of two other Members of this Chamber. The amendment notes that the municipality of Haren will no longer be part of the proposed reclassification. In the explanatory statement he mentions his preference for a collaboration with the Drenthe neighboring municipality Tynaarlo, which we have just discussed. The debate has already shown that I understand Mr Krol's considerations in proposing this. It also looks sympathetic, in the heat of this debate, but I fear it is not a solution. It is not a sustainable solution, especially for the municipality of Haren. This is a final piece of a process of many years. It has been a search, which has led to the conclusion that there are actually no alternatives to this reclassification. It was the province that made the decision. I'm afraid we need to use this moment to create a stable situation. For that reason, unfortunately, I have to advise against this amendment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u264	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u265	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I thank the Minister for the reflection on the questions and the contribution to the debate. It could have been a little sharper if there were also explicitly reflected on the five points I had identified as starting points for our group. I fully understand that, given the pressure of time, this has not been fully achieved, but it can be done at a later stage. I regret that the position of Haren is not given more chance. The Minister repeatedly says: this is the end of a process. Yes, but this is the beginning of the process for Haren. I really advocate the choice of an organic process towards the neighbouring municipality. I think there are possibilities. I will advise my group to vote in favour of the amendment. If the amendment is adopted, we shall vote in favour of the legislative proposal. If the amendment is rejected, we will vote against the legislative proposal, at least I will advise the group in this way. Mr. Chairman. I'll leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u266	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u267	Mr. Chairman. That's not the way it's supposed to be, is it? This week, for example, we are threatening to mess around on the road to scaling up, reorganising and lifting local democracy. The Minister says that democracy belongs to the rulers. I say democracy belongs to the people. They're about their future. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that not every planned reclassification asks the inhabitants for their opinion;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a representative citizen consultation in the case of reclassifications,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Raak and Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34805-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u268	If these reclassification proposals were to be adopted this week, the counter slowly creeps towards the 200 municipalities that I have seen lifted. I have to say, it's insane. There's only been more managers. It's only gotten bigger. There's been more chatter and more blah-blah in local politics. People have less and less felt that the municipality is a political reflection of their community. This minister can't help it. She's just getting started. All the reclassifications that we are discussing today, she has not invented. They're from the last government. But when we asked the previous government for a vision, it never came. I have a little more faith in this minister and therefore the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that ad hoc proposals for reclassification of municipalities have been submitted to the Chamber for years;]] [[noting the lack of a clear vision by the Cabinet of the organisation of local government, the correct size of municipalities and the tasks associated with it;]] [[considers that the establishment of local democracy is a matter not only of the rulers but above all of the population;]] [[calls on the government to maintain the proposed reclassification and first to present an integrated vision of local governance, at least with regard to the following questions:]] [[how municipalities can be a political reflection of local communities;]] [[how residents can determine the correct size of their municipality;]] [[which are then the right tasks for municipalities of different sizes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34805-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u269	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. I've been able to follow it fairly well, despite all the interruptions. Sometimes that was difficult, but I think that my questions were also addressed during interruptions. In my second term, I would also like to say that I am here as a co-legislator. In a democracy, the Chamber also has the responsibility to act as a co-legislator. It is therefore not the case that we are acting undemocratically here. Mr. Chairman. For my group, it has been a weight-and-weighting exercise. This is not the easiest aggregation or reclassification. Don't let me put that under this ground. But in the end, we figured it out. In a democracy, you make trade-offs. In a representative democracy you try to see what the pros and cons are. Let me also say the following, because that may also be said. You don't always have to agree in this country. You do not always have to agree in Haren, but let my group be the voice of those who support this merger, because there are also those in Haren. They are also in the College of Deputy States of Groningen. The VVD is not in that, but there are other parties in this Chamber who are against this reclassification. Let the VVD Group be the voice of many other residents and companies. Let the VVD Group also be the spokesperson of the opposition groups in the Haren City Council. Those people are also entitled to a vote in this Chamber. There's nothing wrong with that, and there's nothing undemocratic about that. Mr. Chairman. My group trusts it. It'll hurt. I'm not denying that. There will be a lot of emotions in reclassifications, but my group is convinced that it is going to be okay. There is a great responsibility here too, I would like to say, for the possible new municipality after 1 January to heal the wounds. Because they have to be healed, and that really takes time. Mr President, I can also tell you on behalf of my group that we will vote in favour of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u270	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol, on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u271	Madam President, thank you very much. Unlike the Minister, I am of the kind who likes to admit a mistake when he has made it. I just said that Groningen's financial statements weren't approved. I have now learned that after a lot of hannes about the World Bank value, the annual accounts were finally approved. I've fixed that right here. I am pleased that we have tabled an amendment together with Mr Van Raak and Mr Baudet. I am sorry that the Minister says: catch up if in doubt. I'd say if you were in doubt, you wouldn't catch up. I also have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Minister has committed to a new municipal reclassification policy framework for the summer of 2018;]] [[Whereas the proposed merger of Groningen, Ten Boer and Haren shows that the role of the province can be decisive in the process leading to a legislative proposal;]] [[Considering that in the current 2013 municipal reclassification policy framework, it was explicitly chosen to strengthen the position of the province;]] [[calls on the government to evaluate the strengthened role of the province prior to the new policy framework,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34805-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u272	Finally, I would ask the Minister to look very closely at the figures and then conclude with me that the financial position of the Municipality of Haren is actually much brighter for the future than is claimed here this evening, especially when I look at the extra contribution from the Municipal Fund that the municipality will receive in the future. It's not even included in these numbers. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u273	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Martin Bosma, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u274	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go through that board agreement for a second and now, well, well, things have been dragged away before the gates of hell! That can really be carved into marble. You have the Bill of Rights, but this is really going down in history. One of the things in it is whether the new municipality pursues an active policy for recreation and accessibility throughout the municipality. Well, that's what future generations will talk about. Imagine the opposite would have been there: we would have had news. It's just a collection of open doors: the agreement will make sure that every day the sun rises and it freezes and thaws. That is the large administrative agreement, which the Minister says is the panacea for all the ailments. That administrative agreement has not been recognised at all by the Municipality of Haren and can be terminated quickly. If Haren doesn't exist anymore, Haren won't be able to stand up for himself and come back to these things, which are nothing at all. The Minister says that Haren must also recognise himself in the implementation of the administrative agreement, but it is nothing at all. It's just more vague than vague. Mr. Chairman. We heard the D66 group say in Mrs Den Boer's person that it can no longer do so. It can't go on like this in Haren? Then what's going on? Let me join the D66 department in Haren, which describes Mrs Den Boer's words as "arrogant." I think it's a lot to say a little bit that you know better than this minister. This minister says something must happen in Haren. We haven't had a single piece of that yet. What do you mean something has to happen in Haren? Perhaps the Minister can explain this now and tell us exactly what should happen in Haren? I also find something interesting about the meaning in Dutch politics today of the cry "from below," which also has a bit of a communist smell in me. With "from the bottom" you think of the citizens, the man and the woman on the street, but that means in D66-management language simply "the city council members." Not a bad word about those people, because I think of them as heroes, but at bottom I just think of the citizen in the street. I find that enlightening from today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u275	Thank you, Mr. Bosma. Then I will go to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u276	Thank you, Mr President. I must say quite frankly that it was not always an enlightening debate. We have heard comments about an approved annual accounts, about pools that would be closed but just open and about solvency figures. Eventually, in the core, the consideration is what is right for the future of Haren. I have heard the Minister say in a number of my questions what her position is, not only what preceded it, but how she is now in it. As I indicated in my first term, I will return these answers to my group. We will consider how we will vote on this reclassification in the coming weeks. It's still a very difficult trade-off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u277	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Den Boer on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u278	Mr. Chairman. After a heated debate, I would like to thank the Minister for her answers, but I would especially like to thank the people in the public gallery and everyone who watched the live stream from home or on one of the live blogs. It's not easy to listen to a debate that hits you like that. Despite the sometimes fierce change of heart about what happened, I think it's good to look forward now. Counterfeiting must be bridged. Groningen, Haren and Ten Boer have a shared future, on which they must work together, not only the directors, but also the inhabitants. I am also looking at the mayors for this, in full confidence that they will work on it, and at the minister, who must provide them and the province with all the support and guidance they need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u279	Thank you, Mrs Den Boer. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u280	In 1947, the great American politician James Burnham wrote the classic The Managing Revolution, a visionary book in which he provided a development that would take place in all Western countries. Managers would increasingly seize power and democracies, which had come into being in the nineteenth century, would continue to exist formally, but would gradually become hollowed out, by mergers and by ever-increasing administrative conglomerates. That is exactly what we see coming back to all levels today. Multinationals are in fact almost merged with very large administrative bodies. Big business and big government seem to go hand in hand, thus undermining small and medium-sized enterprises. Municipalities must constantly merge, undermining local democracy. National sovereignty is being undermined by continental governments such as the European Union. Today we see yet another element in that great pattern, whereby we, the citizens, the ordinary people in our countries, get less and less control over our lives and they, the people who manage and think from powerpoint presentations, gain an ever greater grip on our lives. We have to fight this. We shouldn't want this. We must resist this gradual displacement and expropriation, which is taking place before our eyes, just slowly enough to be accepted every time, but soon enough to make us completely powerless and out of our own lives during our lifetimes. Vote this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u281	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. That was the second term of office. I see the Minister can respond immediately. Does the Minister have all the motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u282	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u283	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u284	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank all those who are still here for their patience. It's late, I just saw on the clock. It was a long and intense debate that we are now going to try to bring to an end. Maybe I can say a few more things about the governance agreement that was just circulated. That administrative agreement was concluded in 2017, so last year, between two municipalities, Groningen and Ten Boer, with the involvement of the liaison person appointed by the province for Haren, but indeed not with the municipality of Haren itself. Mr Bosma is very much in favour of the municipality of Haren.... that is very good and that is his right............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There are also very relevant things for the inhabitants of the municipalities. I think that Mr Bosma is of the opinion that this is at least what I hope about swimming pools, music schools, libraries, sports complexes and other facilities of the inhabitants is as important as the inhabitants of Groningen and Ten Boer themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u285	Mr Bosma wishes to respond very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u286	I haven't heard a dedain with myself, I say in all objectivity. I've been going through that board agreement for a while, and there's nothing concrete in it at all. They are intentions that everyone will agree with. The pool must stay open; hip, hip, hooray. Those aren't the tough guarantees that a community that threatens to be eaten must have? This isn't recorded in marble and signed with blood, is it? These are just nice, vague intentions that no one can object to. But there's no guarantee for Haren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u287	No. Once every four years, we have municipal elections. The municipal councils have the room to make changes. But I think it's very, very concrete. I also find it very much said when in a governance agreement such concrete things as music schools, libraries, swimming pools and sports complexes are mentioned. Those are the things the residents think are important. I hope that Mr Bosma will agree with me, but that is what I am actually getting out of his words. Mr. Chairman. A number of motions have been tabled, but perhaps I should also thank a number of speakers. The VVD spokesperson has just said that much has been said for those from Haren, too, who have spoken against this reclassification, but Mr Van den Bosch rightly said that he also spoke on behalf of the supporters, because they are there. There are in Groningen, there are in Ten Boer and there are in Haren, so thank you for that. I would also like to thank Mr Krol, who has just corrected an omission on his part, but I should have known that, Mr Krol, on the financial approval of the province for the city of Groningen. I would also like to thank Mr Van der Molen of the CDA. He said that it is important for him and his group to be able to properly assess all the information that has been shared, but that also counts for him what my judgement as a responsible ruler is. I have tried to answer his questions properly for this reason and to give him as much information, analyses and an explanation as possible so that he can indeed take that judgment back to the CDA group, so that she can determine what she thinks is the best decision in the end. Then there are the motions, Mr. Chairman. The first motion, in part No. 10, belongs to Mr Van Raak and Mr Krol. In fact, it says: we have to decide here that municipalities should hold a citizen consultation. I am not in favour of this, because I think that these municipalities can very well decide for themselves. I therefore advise against this motion. Mr Van Raak's second motion, No. 11, has a number of parts that I think are quite sympathetic. I am also working on a new policy framework, as Mr Van Raak knows, but I would like to say two more things. One: I don't want to make a blueprint. I would like to implement what is contained in the government agreement, which is to reorganise from the bottom up, but sometimes there can be cause for the involvement of the municipality. Many of the points mentioned by Mr Van Raak, for example the role of residents and the tasks that municipalities must carry out, I think are relevant points. He will also find them in the policy framework that is yet to come. But the motion also calls on the government to stick to the proposals that have been put forward and first to come up with an integral vision. I'm not prepared to do that. For that reason, I advise against this motion. The last motion is Mr Krol's motion on item No. 12. I was just saying that the policy framework is being worked on. Of course, I will also take into account the experience gained in this policy framework. But what Mr Krol is asking in this motion is to evaluate first and then to develop a new policy framework. That's not the order I foresee. For that reason, unfortunately, I have to discourage this motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u288	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I thank the people in the public gallery and the people who have followed this debate on the Internet. Have a good trip back to Haren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-17-tweedekamer-26.u289	On the legislative proposal, on the amendment, I think there was one amendment, and on the three motions we will vote next Tuesday.
