ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-13.u1	We will continue with the VSO RBZ/Development cooperation. I give the floor to Mrs Becker on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-13.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In view of the time, I shall begin reading out two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that over EUR 31 billion from the European Development Fund will be spent on 79 ACP countries in the period 2014-2020;]] [[noting that the EU intends to conclude a new treaty with these countries on development money beyond 2020;]] [[calls on the Government at EU level to press for a new post-Cotonou Convention to contain concrete agreements on addressing root causes of migration, reducing irregular migration flows and withdrawing out-of-court nationals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that for the period 2014-2020, the entire EU development cooperation budget amounts to around €65.5 billion, of which the Dutch contribution, in addition to its own national OS budget, is around €500 million annually;]] [[Whereas it is not easy to understand how these funds are used within the European Development Fund, the Development Cooperation Instrument and the European Neighbourhood Instrument and what their effectiveness is;]] [[calls on the Government to present a proposal to improve and clarify transparency, accountability and parliamentary control of and on these external EU financial instruments and to report on these instruments at least by means of an annual separate letter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Becker. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-04-208]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Becker and Mr Bouali. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-04-209]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-13.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for answering the questions. The report of the written consultation talks about the consequences of non-compliance with the Cotonou Agreement. What consequences does the Minister have in mind? I assume that this applies to the EU Member States. Consequences for non-compliance should come from two sides. I would like an explanation from the Minister. In the report, the Minister states that countries guilty of human rights violations must bear the consequences. Article 96 of Cotonou should be maintained. However, this gives me a difficult feeling, because it only indicates in what difficult situation we have ended up in because of the revelations of the wrongs at Oxfam among others. Who violated human rights in Haiti? Who did that in Liberia? So here too there must be reciprocity, and this time our way as a reliable partner. We, the signatory countries, are also responsible for everyone who bears our flag, and that is the majority of our OS organisations. I also welcome the Minister's commitment to aid organisations on sexual abuse. The rotten apples must be punished. The sector must also be consulted on its own behalf. I'm glad we're getting a hearing or a round table on this. But we must also remember that the great part consists of people who want to help others and are merciful and sometimes leave their whole lives in the hands of fellow human beings. It is good to read that the Minister, like the CDA, appreciates the importance of civil society. We also support the European Commission's multi-stakeholder approach. However, the CDA would like the African Union to be more actively involved and encouraged to organise itself properly. The Minister states that this is his own responsibility, but the EU also benefits from a strong African partner, to which we can support, without being paternalistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-13.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Kuik. I now give the floor to Mrs Diks, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-13.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All the understanding that the Minister's agenda is still overcrowded as far as possible, but it is a pity that we have to deal with such an important subject in this way in a VSO. The European Union is entering into negotiations for a successor to the Cotonou Agreement, which governs the relationship between the EU and its former colonies in Africa, Asia and the Caribbean. I would like to thank the Minister for a number of commitments. Firstly, the commitment that the Netherlands will continue to insist that the EU continues to appeal to partner countries to respect human rights, such as women's and children's rights, people with disabilities and immigrants, and, of course, environmental and nature rights, even if they cost political capital. After all, an effective fight for a better world is never free and without obligation. Secondly, I would like to thank her for the commitment that the Netherlands is making to ensure that a new treaty focuses on making a serious contribution to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has one more open request to the Minister, namely whether she is prepared to consider whether a new treaty can find room for new initiatives in the field of land restoration in Africa. The more we combat desertification in Africa and create fertile agricultural land, the more future and action there is, so that we can prevent humanitarian adversity for now and in the future. A new treaty may be a vehicle to stimulate aid projects and the sharing of agricultural technology and innovations. I would like to hear whether the Minister is prepared to look into this, also in the context of my motion already taken over by the cabinet on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-13.u6	Thank you, Mrs Diks. I now give the floor to Mrs Karabulut, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-13.u7	Mr. Chairman. One motion on behalf of my party, the SP. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that residents of the site where 540,000 litres of toxic waste was discharged from the Probo Koala in 2006 still face health problems and that there is no clarity as to the long-term effects of this discharge because the precise composition of the waste has never been released by Trafigura;]] [[whereas the Netherlands is co-responsible for the 2006 disaster because it allowed Trafigura to export the waste through the port of Amsterdam despite the fact that it was known that it was dangerous substances for which special treatment was required;]] [[Considering that the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) strongly recommends the Government of Côte d'Ivoire to launch a long-term investigation into the health effects of the waste on the affected population and to continue monitoring it for a longer period and that in 2009 the UN Special Rapporteur on Toxic Substances and Human Rights recommended the Dutch Government to support Côte d'Ivoire in such a study;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the Côte d'Ivoire authorities to respond to UNEP's call and to provide financial support for the investigation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-04-210]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-13.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have held extensive written consultations with the Minister on the Foreign Affairs/Development Cooperation Council. I would like to thank the Minister very much for the comprehensive answers we have received. I am also very pleased with the answers and the emphasis on the MENA region. Thank you for that, too. I have two further comments to make. Firstly, on women's rights and SRGR. The Bulgarian Presidency has an ambitious agenda on this subject. D66 shares this ambition. Women worldwide need to be able to make choices about their own lives. I therefore asked the Minister how she intends to support this ambitious agenda of the Bulgarian Presidency. The answer to that was a little thin. I would therefore like to hear the Minister explain this more specifically. Mr. Chairman. Secondly, development cooperation through the European Union. It's about very large amounts of money. It is good to read about the position of the cabinet to make a possible new development instrument part of the European budget. Then the European Parliament can increase its control of this. But the national parliament still has little idea of EU development cooperation and the money that goes around. Transparency can be improved, as can accountability, and hence parliamentary control. That is why I tabled a motion along with my colleague Mr Becker of the VVD. I would like to ask the Minister to come up with a proposal for this: how can we increase transparency and accountability in the EU area? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-13.u9	Thank you. That was the term of the Chamber. I see a short five-minute suspension is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-13.u10	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-13.u11	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank Members for the questions they have put and for the motions that have been tabled. I will go straight to the questions and comments that have been made and then I will continue with the motions. I shall begin with Mrs Diks van GroenLinks' question. The restoration of agricultural land in Africa is extremely important, as she said in a motion earlier. This includes root causes, perspectives, employment and, of course, opportunities for Dutch business, the whole story. Investing in food security, agriculture and climate is part of our commitment. This includes the restoration of agricultural land, in order to achieve a good negotiating mandate for the EU-ACP Convention, so we take the spirit and letter of the motion with us. I will continue with Mrs Kuik's question from the CDA, if I may. I must make sure that I have understood the point and the question correctly. Cotonou does indeed make it very clear that reciprocity is very important. It is therefore not just a political dialogue between the EU and the countries themselves, but also a monitoring exercise. There must also be a strong measureability. We must also draw conclusions about non-compliance with agreements. Mrs Kuik rightly pointed out to me that I understood the connection that some of the co-financing organisations and aid organisations that we finance are being horrified, especially cross-border sexual behaviour, intimidation, the whole range; it is appalling. The letter's almost ready. If I didn't have two hats, I'd have sent him by now. I hope that letter comes this afternoon or tomorrow morning. We have a very critical attitude. We have already set a number of criteria for the organisations. We are also going to see which other improvements have yet to be made, but there will be a very tight commitment. If Mrs Kuik says that we need to look at ourselves critically, I fully agree. I also want to take accountability, the whole range, but I don't want to anticipate the letter. There's a lot in there. I have heard Mrs Kuik very well and I fully agree with her. We also have a previous question from Mrs Van Weerdenburg. I shall now turn to Mr Bouali's question on the Bulgarian Presidency. The Presidency is always very closely associated with the Commission. We support all the initiatives in this area, and we are very consistent with those aimed at strengthening gender equality. That is much more than SRGR, as far as I am concerned. It is a very important element, but gender equality is, of course, also about economic independence, education, job opportunities, the whole range. I want to put a coherent policy on that. Hopefully you will see that in the upcoming note as well. So thank you for that rappel. It is also important that we connect it nationally with what we do in the EU and elsewhere. With your permission, Madam President, I will proceed to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-13.u12	Yeah, go ahead. That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-13.u13	The Becker motion in part No. I regard 208 as a policy support and I would like to leave it to the House to decide. We see the relationship with the ACP countries wide, from politics and security to trade cooperation. Migration cooperation is indeed an important component in this, including addressing the root causes of migration and, of course, the withdrawal of outlawed nationals. However, we are in favour of an integrated approach in which agreements should be reached between the EU and African countries on irregular migration, smuggling and trafficking in human beings, and legal forms of migration and the withdrawal of non-resident citizens in the EU. However, we explicitly focus on better implementation and compliance mechanisms, monitoring and discussion. We may have consequences for that. This has also been demonstrated in the evaluation of the Cotonou Agreement. The ideas were good, but compliance was considerably weaker, and this naturally reduces credibility. The Becker/Bouali motion in part No. 209 was submitted by the VVD and D66. I fully understand your desire for a better understanding of EU spending and the results achieved. If I may read your request in such a way that you mean an additional chapter, in which we give more information within the existing budget documents, I can fully embrace this motion. I'd like to leave it to the House's discretion. There are two complementary options. In the HGIS note "HGIS" stands for Homogene Group International Cooperation "HGIS" all foreign expenses of the Cabinet. In the annual report we will give much more information under policy theme 3, European cooperation. We will do the same in policy article 3, European cooperation from the State Department budget, because all payments to the EU are on that budget. I would also like to add to the annual report a chapter on the results achieved by European development cooperation. I can also undertake a separate annual letter on this subject. Then we will also refer to the European Commission's reports on how external financial instruments are used, to the reports of the European Court of Auditors and to the annual report on results. I realize that if we describe this, we'll actually explain again how complex it is, but I don't know if we'll make it easier by merging. First of all, I want to focus on making what is now more transparent and consolidating what is now and what is perhaps too separate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-13.u14	I hear the Minister say that in a number of places, both in the HGIS note and in a separate letter, she sees an opportunity for greater transparency of these instruments. That is indeed what I and Mr Bouali are about, because it is now very difficult for us to see where the money is going. I think it's a good idea for the Minister to read the motion in this way. May I ask her to explain to the Chamber how she is going to carry out the motion for the next annotated agenda? Then we can still read it back quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-13.u15	If the motion is passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-13.u16	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-13.u17	Thank you, Mrs Becker. I'd love to. I think it's very good for both sides if we understand what we're talking about and how we're going to do it. President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. 210. Mrs Karabulut, I must honestly ask you to hold the motion, because we must first see what has happened and whether the Netherlands has already financed it. You are talking about a report by the UN Special Rapporteur and a request from UNEP, but we do not understand the current situation and the funding. It's a very specific request. I'd like to have a look at the contents first. Then I will come back to it later, but I would ask you to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-13.u18	I'd like to do that. If the Minister can also indicate something of a deadline within which we can get a response, that would be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-13.u19	We have recess now. You can do that in two weeks, a week after recess. To be honest, it's just about doing some pre-work and getting insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-13.u20	At the request of Mrs Karabulut, I propose her motion (21501-04, No. 210). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-13.u21	You were ready, weren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-13.u22	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-13.u23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-22-tweedekamer-13.u24	I think the next VSO will have the same spokesperson present. Can we do that? I only miss Mr Voordewind. I'm gonna suspend until the other spokesmen get here.
