ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is a plenary debate on the Implementation Act revised Payment Services Directive. I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance to the House. Seven speakers have spoken on the side of the Chamber. I would just like to give it the floor successfully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u2	The first speaker to come forward is Mr Ronnes, member of the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When we talk in the country with any citizen about PSD2 (Revised Directive on Payment Services), many will frown on his or her eyebrows. "PSD2? What? PSD2? Never heard of it." However, almost all citizens will soon be confronted with the effects of the Implementation Act revised Payment Services Directive, introduced by PSD2. For viewers and listeners who have not been sufficiently introduced: this law ensures that a company wishing to provide a particular payment service is no longer dependent on the bank. This law obliges banks to give access to payment account information if the consumer agrees. There's the crux right there. This is also my main point in this debate. Giving permission to make your financial data accessible to third parties is not nothing. Your financial data says a lot about you: the amount of your salary, the fixed expenses you have and the amount of that, the charities you give your money to and the supermarket where you do your shopping. But also: whether you pay alimony, pay fines or pay off debts. Those aren't things you'd like to have in the hands of an outside party. That is why we need to make a proper assessment of this bill. Of course, the bill also has advantages. In a world that is becoming more digital, we also need to make it easier to control your finances. More insight through easiest apps, for example, doesn't want to get in the way of the CDA either. But we understand that many people's concerns about this bill can be very great. I'll mention a few of those concerns. Can everyone see the consequences of the permissions granted? What is the consumer actually saying yes to? Is there sufficient assurance that when access to data is withdrawn, they will actually be rendered inactive? And does anyone, over time, have any idea what he gave permission for some time ago? Within the framework of the Directive, the CDA aims to maximise the consumer's position. That is why we still have a number of questions, but also proposals, to strengthen that position. First of all, I would like to mention the requirement for explicit consent. The payment service provider should seek the consent of consumers individually. But how? For example, explicit consent could be requested in a digital environment through a separate window, in which the payment service user can indicate consent. If such authorisation is not granted, there can be no negative consequences other than that the payment service cannot be provided. The Minister states that in practice the precise implementation of this requirement is jointly designed by DNB and the Dutch Data Protection Authority. Where possible, this can be linked to the requirements of the GDPR regarding the granting of the consent. That's what worries us. So it's not clear how it's gonna happen. Can the Minister indicate what position he still has as a minister and as a chamber when things are designed and implemented in practice? With regard to the express consent, we have two wishes. The first wish is the next. As far as we are concerned, a bank should always provide the customer with online insight into the services for which permission has been granted, into the permissions that are active. Also historical data, about permissions that are no longer active, should be clear to the customer as far as we are concerned. The second wish is the next. In our view, consent should be requested per individual account. It should not therefore be the case that after a given consent, all your accounts and savings accounts will then become available to that third party. In our view, this will help to ensure that care is taken. With regard to the withdrawal of consent, it is explained that with regard to personal data, all reasonable measures should be taken to remove or correct personal data that are incorrect for the purposes for which they are processed. The processing of personal data is also subject to the requirements of the GDPR. The withdrawal of consent to the processing of personal data in the case of a payment service may in any event occur by the termination by the consumer of a contract with a payment service provider. Mr President, I see someone at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u4	Certainly, Mr. Ronnes, and I also wanted to give Mr. Alkaya of the SP the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u5	This was an interesting start by Mr Ronnes. He is actually referring in this first piece to the right of access, which is also contained in the General Data Protection Regulation. But let's say there are people. I don't think that's inappropriate... who don't know that they're sharing their data because, for example, they haven't ever read the general terms and conditions of twenty pages. It happens all the time. Does Mr Ronnes agree with me that we need to build in something that will give these people a signal that their data will be shared at the time, without having to actively click on the bank's web page twenty times?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u6	In fact, with that in mind, we propose to try to enforce the dashboard at the banks. We ask the Minister how that would be possible. Are there any possibilities for that? For example, the individual client can see at any time what he or she has consented to. I have seen an amendment from your side which concerns the annual issue of a paper-paper issue, but as far as we are concerned, that is not frequent enough. That should just be online data that the client concerned can understand at any time of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u7	I share that view, and for me every year it is not an important point either. An important point for me is that that customer is not supposed to be aware by itself that the data is being shared. I can also put a question to Mr Ronnes on this. Does Mr Ronnes know what apps, applications or pages he has ever given permission via Facebook? You can log on to many things via Facebook. Then you are constantly sharing your data via Facebook. If you click 20 times on Facebook, there is indeed an overview of the parties with which you share all this, but you are not automatically alerted to that fact. And with bank records, of course, that goes a lot further. So I think we should be sure that people whose bank data is shared are aware of that. That's what Mr Ronnes says. Shouldn't those people be alerted to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u8	My answer is yes. Only then comes the follow-up question: in what way? When you bomb people with e-mails every time they accept something, and then click on "delete" to get it out, it's not clear yet. So we are for an overview, a dashboard on which you can always see the current state of affairs online. We prefer to be able to see historical data there too, for example that it was once authorised and when it was stopped. That's valuable information if it's important personal data that someone has ever allowed the bank to share.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u9	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u10	I had stayed with the question at what time you can guarantee that data provided will be deleted if consent is withdrawn. Or is it once given, still given? We would like a clear answer from the Minister. Then I'll join the tying and/or tying. marketing. The Minister has tried to clarify in the explanatory memorandum that the protection of personal data is regulated in the GDPR. He explains that, for example, if a bank wants to use the payment details of the data subjects for marketing purposes, this is not necessary for the execution of the agreement. The agreement cannot therefore serve as a legal basis for the processing of data for marketing purposes. For this, separate consent must be requested from the client. On paper, of course, that sounds very nice, but does the customer still see the forest through the trees? First there is the consent for the payment data, and then the consent for the data processing for marketing purposes. How will this work in practice? Isn't this a case of trees not seeing the forest anymore for individual clients in the Netherlands? Here's another thing. The law provides that a consumer must share data of his own free will. So you can't be required by a company. But what if a company offers a big advantage if you do share data, for example a few tenths of a percentage interest rate advantage on your mortgage? The advantage can then become so great that you are financially crazy if you do not share your account details. And I don't really want to. Sharing account data should be in the consumer's interest, but not because he doesn't really have a choice financially. Then, as far as we are concerned, this bill would be shooting in the wrong direction. The Minister writes that tying is not allowed in this way, but ultimately it is up to the supervisor or the judge to determine whether or not a company crosses the border. We would like to follow this closely and ask the Minister how we could do that. Maybe we'll put that in motion in the second term. Then another point, one's own risk. If you lose your bank card now and you suffer a financial loss, there is your own risk of €150. This bill reduces this to €50. That is a step in the right direction as far as we are concerned. The example with which that is explained, namely the loss of an ATM card, is understandable, but we are talking about more. Some transactions are not triggered directly by an ATM card but happen anyway. Does the client have to pay its own risk, or is there an exception if it is outside his or her power? I'd like an explanation from the Minister on that. My one-after-last point is surcharging: calculating a surcharge when using a particular means of payment, such as a credit card. We support the Minister's decision not to use the Member State option to ban surcharging altogether. Indeed, a complete ban on fees would allow retailers to pass on the cost of expensive means of payment in the price or opt to no longer offer certain expensive and/or innovative payment instruments. This would, we believe, limit innovation for consumers, and thus competition. I'm coming to a close, Mr. Chairman. The law we are discussing tonight is one that we discuss so often: a law that allows more innovation and more competition between companies. That's not wrong either. Consumers can benefit from this. We still lack a certain amount of attention for the disadvantages that may exist for consumers: no control over their own data, sometimes legitimate fear of commercialisation of private data and lack of clarity about their implementation. That's what I've been calling attention to. I hope the Minister can take away many of these concerns. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister to include this potential shadow side for consumers in the legislation in Europe on the internal market. I'd like the commitment that he's going to work on this. So much for my first term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ronnes. We are going to the second speaker on the side of the Chamber, Mr Van der Linde. He is a member of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u12	Mr. Chairman. Would you still be able to bank without a smartphone? I don't. In a bank branch I rarely come, I pay my accounts digitally, I check in line for the cash register my balance and of course I use Tikki to settle a dinner with colleagues. That's going very well. That's all gonna be much faster and much more convenient. In a few years, we won't be needing a bank card. Then we'll just wave our phones. With another app we put our savings on a safe bank at the highest interest rate. With our phones we directly transfer money to each other, even in places where there are no mobile networks. The possibilities are spectacular. Carefree on vacation with only your smartphone in your back pocket. No hassle with passes and old-fashioned bank statements. Maybe even an intelligent fridge at home, ordering milk and taking care of it yourself. Or in ten minutes, a mortgage, no frills, without a difficult conversation with a gentleman in a gray suit. In short, this makes our lives more convenient and easier. And if our own trusted Dutch bank is not going to offer those services, there are plenty of other parties ready to do so. Major technology giants from the United States of America, Apple, Google, Amazon, are already rolling out their payment services in Europe. In eight minutes, you open a free bank account at N26. I'll give you a credit card. MaxMyInterest is active in the United States, which automatically transfers your money to the bank account with the highest interest rates. That's interesting. And I would like to mention just a few of the hundreds of initiatives in this area. That's beautiful, but it does have a shadow side. I said earlier at Mr Nijboer's notation consultation that Google knows exactly what you're looking for; very precisely indeed. Google is trading that information. I mentioned the example of these climbing irons, which the Minister remembers. But Google doesn't know if you're actually buying a product and when you're buying it. That information is worth gold. I also said at the time, "That would be a gold mine." Well, the American press agency Bloomberg revealed last week that Mastercard made a deal with Google. In America it already happens: 70% of customers can be followed in this way. And that's not unique. "Give us your data, we'll give you our users" was the headline of the Wall Street Journal sometime in July. That article was about Facebook's collaboration with different banks. Mr. Chairman. I don't know if I want a fridge to order milk and take care of it myself, but I'm gonna need that handy app later with that accounting program that directly links with my bank account. Then I want to make sure my payment records are secure. That requires rules that we don't have at the moment. The European rules on payments are outdated, offer too little protection and hinder innovation. Entire daily things, such as filling with your debit card or paying for Internet purchases, are just outside the existing guidelines. Meanwhile, more and more of our data are being exchanged. This, of course, has a major impact on privacy, on the way banks operate and on all those tech companies. We now see that large American and, by the way, Chinese technology companies, without many rules, are trading our private data and making big money out of it. We also see that they are developing more and more banking services. You can also see that one banking licence in Europe is enough to cover the whole of the EU, and that is what is happening. At the same time, our own Dutch banks are not allowed to exchange data with Dutch fintech companies, even if customers would like to. Banks are hampered by their duty of care and do not know who they can safely work with. The fintech companies are then frustrated again because they do not enter those banks. That's gotta be better. We need a clear framework so that our banks can compete with the big technology companies. Rules must be put in place to prevent our payment data from being patented: privacy by design. For example, you give a provider access to a specific payment account for up to 90 days, and then you have to give your consent again. I understand that the Dutch banks will develop an interface with a high level of security. So it is not a question of ticking countless pages of incomprehensible legal text, but of very clear, understandable language. You know what you're consenting to and only for that purpose can the information be used. There are a few other advantages. I refer to the reduction in own risk, the direct refund of incorrect transfers and the better handling of complaints: wonderful! This bill regulates all these matters fairly well, but developments in the financial sector are moving very quickly. PSD2 is now there, but bottlenecks will develop in the coming years. Perhaps there are privacy aspects that we are overlooking or security issues that we cannot yet overlook. It is likely that banks and technology companies face unnecessary barriers. I would like to say that this law must not only be safe but also be safe. This means that we will have to maintain constant maintenance over the next few years. I saw an amendment by Mr Snels on an evaluation after five years. That, of course, has my warm support. I'm just wondering if that's enough. I think we should be able to adjust on a monthly basis. My question to the Minister is: how does he deal with that? Then I have a few more points of interest. It's ripe and green. The Minister will understand that there have been extremely many interest parties at the gate, so let's just get them off nicely. I'm just naming it the way it is. We continue to find the handling of third party information difficult. If you share payment data, you also share data that is sensitive to a third party. Your ex-husband's alimony or your patient's medical treatment: it's about that kind of thing. How are we going to protect this data and what risks do we still run that data fall into the wrong hands? Another point, from the corner of the banks, is the elaboration Article 94 (2) of PSD2. That's about the requirement for the express consent we have to give. The banks are afraid that they will have to send a letter to all their existing customers asking whether their banking services can be continued. I can't imagine. I imagine that somewhere the first day of the month, on a Saturday, everyone is in the supermarket and then all those passes don't do it anymore. I don't think that's the point. Can the Minister say once again that this effect is not intended in any case? Then we'll add that to legal history. Then we have the payment rates. We know that they are much higher in the rest of Europe than in the Netherlands. Retailers now fear that PSD2 is being used as an excuse to increase the rate for payment services. How does the Minister view that? Is that a real fear? Then I have a question on the European playing field. I am almost finished. I had a conversation with a fintech company that does the same thing as the old peak tube, you know, that thing that was in the kitchen. Every time you went shopping, you put one peak in the peak tube and then at the end of the year you saved a nice amount of money together and you could do something fun with the whole family. This company is doing something similar. Every time you shop, the amount is charged to the next euro; the difference is placed in an investment account. Well, insanely nice idea! That company is operational and works with, indeed, a Dutch bank that can do so but there are now 40 people waiting for them to roll out this beautiful system all over Europe. You have to, because this is about small amounts, so you need some scale. They've been waiting a little too long for us to come up with PSD2. My question to the Minister is: are we sure that this company will be able to offer its services anywhere else in the European Union undisturbed, or is it going to run into improper obstacles, such as banks still making trouble? Does that risk threaten and if so, can this company, if indeed this occurs, join the Minister personally? Mr. Chairman. I tasted in Mr Nijboer's notebook that some parties now think that PSD2 is a free pass for banks to just trade our data. The opposite seems to me to be the case: if we don't settle this properly, Chinese and American companies will be getting along with our banking services and all our very personal data. Then the Dutch banks, good for 100,000 jobs, have the check. This law provides a solution, but regular updating will remain necessary. People in the Netherlands like to have all these handy apps. We must ensure that this is and remains safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u13	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u14	Mr Van der Linde said, before he started with the list of lobbyists' wishes, a number of very sensible things, in my opinion. He said on the one hand that we should not hinder innovation and that competition from new, innovative fintech companies is good for the old, established banks. On the other hand, other powerful companies, American companies like Google, Facebook, Amazon and so on, also have a lot of interest in the possibilities offered by PSD2 and the Implementation Act. Mr Van der Linde has expressed his concerns about this, but what conclusion does he draw? This seems to be inherent in this new directive, doesn't it? What do Mr Van der Linde's concerns mean in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u15	The conclusion is actually quite simple. If we don't enable our banks to run this race, our banks will have to fight hard to make this happen for their customers, then the tech giants from America, China or wherever they come from will go around us. Then everything will go through an app and happen outside the European Union if necessary. I want our banks to be able to compete. You're probably also an economist or something like that. I'm just foreseeing a major process of creative destruction if our banks can't do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u16	Yeah, once. At the same time, not only those banks will be able to participate in that race later, but also the Google, Facebooks and Amazons, which we have seen in recent years, actually after this directive was adopted in 2015, have built up enormous power with the data they already have. Soon they'll get more data from us. Mr Van der Linde says that he is concerned about this. But should we not admit that they might not have seen this coming in Brussels in 2015 and that they did indeed think: it is good that the banks can participate in the innovation struggle; it is good that the fintech companies can participate? They did not foresee that the Google, the Facebooks and the Amazons would want to take full advantage of this as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u17	Yes. That is why I am extremely pleased that the rules in PSD2 are all going to apply to these companies. It concerns the same privacy protection, which is also included in the GDPR.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u18	Thank you, Mr Van der Linde, for your contribution to this debate. Then I shall go to the next speaker on the side of the Chamber. That is Mr Sneller, member of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The digitisation of our payment system has great promises: more choice, less cost, more insight, less hassle, more control. Some of those promises have already been fulfilled. For the online shopper in the Netherlands, iDEAL can no longer be ignored. And that tastes like more, also for customers and shopkeepers who buy or sell in other European countries, for example. Much of the power in this payment sector is still in the hands of the big banks. Their central position in payments is virtually undisputed. In any case, this Directive aims to reduce bank dependency by promoting competition and innovation in payment services and digital household books, thereby contributing to freedom of choice and lower prices. Not only can fintech entrepreneurs develop and offer new services themselves. They will also challenge banks to become better or cheaper themselves, whether or not in cooperation with those fintech companies, as Mr Van der Linde also said. So far, this has only been possible with the permission of the banks, as gatekeepers of our bank accounts. Now account holders get control of themselves. According to D66, that is a good thing. Moreover, until now it has actually happened without proper legal guarantees for consumers. Fortunately, that too is changing, because people need to be able to trust that their personal data and money in their accounts are safe. As far as I am concerned, security is therefore a prerequisite for exploiting the opportunities of digitalisation. Although I still have the necessary questions, I am convinced that this bill offers the opportunity to lay down that basis. It is therefore a pity that we are only debating this today, because the deadline for implementation was in January. Since it concerns the Minister of Finance, I would also like to hear what the fine will be for the late homework. Moreover, the delayed introduction of Dutch companies offered the opportunity to move to other countries where they could already apply. Did that happen a lot? Or has the opening of the DNB Window to draft applications, which I found a very nice solution, also proved to be an effective solution? Mr. Chairman. I told you, a bank account contains sensitive information. Those dates don't concern anyone unless someone decides otherwise. The new privacy law already gives people control over their data. This proposal strengthens that control even further. In theory, that sounds fantastic, but what does that express consent mean in practice? Reference has already been made to the terms and conditions of many social media, but you can also think of the umpteenth update of an app. We know the pictures. Once they're printed out, they'll be up front from here to the benches in the back. But one smooth scroll down and one click on "choice," and then we've put those words behind us in five seconds. So it seems that we often give explicit but not always conscious consent to the use of our data. So my question to the Minister is: what guarantees are there built into this bill, so that it is secured and so that I know for sure what exactly I am authorising? It has been mentioned for a while: sharing the details of my bank account I share not only my own but also the data of that friend of mine who cares very much about his privacy and who just happened to pay me with a Tikkie for that dinner yesterday. Is there any possibility, I ask the Minister, that this privacy-loving friend of mine should have control over that information and that I should not be able to give it away to a fintech company if I happen to choose it? Mr. Chairman. As a customer, I must always think about who I consent to and what consequences that can have. However, as far as I am concerned, account holders should at least have an overview through their bank environment of who they have authorised and who is currently authorised to do so. On top of that, I actually sympathize with the appeal made by the Consumers' Union. Mr Alkaya has just referred to them as lobbyists, but they are simply representatives of interests, including of consumers. They have called for a double lock on this. So I'm not only allowing the fintech company to share my bank account details, but I can also see in my banking environment who I've given that permission to and who I can turn off there. I understand that this is contrary to the spirit of the directive, but I would like to hear from the Minister what is possible on this point and what his appreciation of its desirability is. Mr. Chairman. I also welcome the progressive understanding that privacy oversight under this directive is now being transferred to the Personal Data Authority. In my opinion, it has the necessary experience and also knows its European partners, which will often prove necessary. Despite the high level of supervision, there may be fraud or abuse. Criminals have no message to that GDPR. According to the written reply, the defendants must then be with the court in the country of the licence holder. So that means that sometimes you're gonna have to sue a Malaysian company to the Maltese judge. Again, on paper it seems to be right, but in practice it seems quite a tour. I would also like to hear the Minister's reflection on this. I mentioned all the data leaks. Who are companies supposed to report them to? In the context of PSD2, they must be with the Dutch Data Protection Authority. Or should they be at the NCSC? Or should they be at the DNB or the AFM? It seems that there are four different points of contact, and I think it would be better to have one clear point of contact for this, despite the obligation to transmit it referred to in the answers. There are also ICT incidents that can have major consequences, but which are not a data breach. What if, for example, I see a wrong balance on my investment account and, on that basis, take all kinds of far-reaching debt securities decisions for me? Is there an obligation to report on this, or is that part unregulated? Then, as far as I am concerned, the last part of the supervision for the ACM. The point is that this directive promotes the diversity of payment services and does not further increase the market power of a number of large companies that already have significant concentrations of power that the ACM does relatively little about, or that new monopolies arise. Is the Minister therefore willing to take a proactive look with the ACM to see what its newly created digi team can do in this? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the digital housekeeping book. Many people will soon think: why pay if it can also be paid for free? 'Cause I can imagine there's an interesting earning model in there to offer such a book of ads. But, as we heard again this summer, when something is free, we are usually the product ourselves. My question here is what this does for vulnerable groups. Where's the border? If a company that offers ads sees that at the end of its money a person often leaves that proverbial piece of month, can that company give a credit card or a loan to such a person, to bridge that last piece of the month? Or are we saying that we really do not want to, because then the Secretary of State for Social Affairs will have problems because we want an integrated debt approach? If I read the answer correctly, the judge has to decide what is and is not allowed for each individual case. But that seems a bit cumbersome to me. So I'd like to hear what the regulatory and supervisory framework is in there. Mr. Chairman. If I then, with open eyes and considered, give access to my bank account information, that includes my data and not that of the bank. I think that's the underlying principle of PSD2. However, it seems that bank transactions can only be shared back for a period of 90 days. I think it is short that I can only download the bank statements at my bank 18 months ago for free. I have to pay for earlier. That period of 90 days seems to me to be very short. Is that right? Then where did this limitation come from? Is it Maximised in the directive or can we still amend it here? Because it is only over such a longer period that I think you can identify useful patterns. What happens if, for example, I exchange bank accounts with a switching service? Do I have to start building that history again or do I take it with me and build up a longer period of several 90 days? In any event, the 90-day deadline seems to be fixed by the European Banking Authority for customer authentication. This means that it could be adapted in the future without passing through a parliament. Is this perception correct and, if so, is it desirable from a democratic point of view? Now you thought we were coming to the conclusion, but it was already mentioned: just before the check-out there is the surcharge. The charge for paying with credit cards at the cash register disappears. In any case, this applies in part to Visa and Mastercard consumer credit cards, but not to American Express or PayPal. Mr Van Vliet's initiative law, which was dealt with here a few years ago and which my group supported, actually made that distinction, and I understand that choice very well. However, I would like to know from the Minister how we can ensure that the passing on of these costs does not happen explicitly at the cash register, but that it works implicitly in the prices or that it is allowed to, but at least we keep an eye on that. How do we ensure this clarity at the cash register for shopkeepers and for customers? Because the business-to-business Visa Card and Mastercard are not covered by the ban, but the consumer side is covered by the ban. Is that always obvious to a shopkeeper when he has to pay? Otherwise, he may be in transgression while he was ignorant of it. Finally, that is also in line with Mr Snels' amendment, I think my question is how we are going to follow all this. There's an evaluation clause in it. After five years, I think it's a long time, but monthly seems short again. I'm thinking of somewhere in between. I think it would be good to make firm agreements on how we continue to follow this. Mr President, my time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u20	Thank you, Mr. Faster. Then we will go to the next speaker from the Chamber and that is Mr Snels from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u21	Mr. Chairman. I will take a practical approach to this contribution and a more fundamental one. First, the practical approach and that is about how the legislation works. A lot of questions have already been asked here and they are all about how it works. If I look at it practically, GroenLinks supports the objectives of this implementation law: to strengthen an internal market, to stimulate innovation and to address identified problems with the outdated PSD1. In fact, this is the role of the public authorities, of the European and national legislators. Legislation is being adapted to take account of social and technological changes to provide legal certainty and protect citizens. These safeguards and supervision must be properly regulated. I believe that this is the practical point of view, and I am now using it to look at this legislation. Then there are a lot of questions to ask about privacy and security. Many questions in the preparation were mainly about privacy. Are the safeguards sufficient, is monitoring sufficient and do consumers ultimately know what they are saying yes to when they give permission to transfer their data? In my view, these are the three crucial questions. As regards the guarantee, it is important that, according to the Minister, he writes in the written reply, the payment service user is better protected than if only the GDPR would apply. Moreover, the letter of amendment has not designated the DNB, but the Dutch Data Protection Authority as the first supervisory authority to monitor the handling of personal data. In that case, the guarantees on paper seem to be well arranged. The question is what will happen in practice. I'll get back to you on that. Another important question I do not have enough certainty about is whether people really know what they say yes or no to, how they do that and how they can get back to it. In our contribution to this bill, we asked how the government will contribute to consumer awareness. The Minister writes that the European Commission will come with a pamphlet and DNB will launch an information campaign. Actually, I don't think that's very much. The Social Dialogue Payment Traffic, MOB, has indicated that banks are keen to provide consumers with an overview of the authorised service providers; it has been mentioned here a number of times. This wish shares GroenLinks, but I would like to hear the status of this wish. Have all the banks committed themselves to this? Is this gonna happen? If not, how is the Minister going to make this happen? And if it is only a vague intention, should we not try to regulate it legally, for example with some of the SP amendments? I'd like a response. Then safety. The AFM has previously indicated that it fears that payment data may be misused and that there will be more cybercrime due to PSD2. The Minister states in his reply that PSD2 offers sufficient guarantees. Here, too, an information campaign is being launched and consumers and businesses are being encouraged to be aware of the risks. Now it is quite difficult for me as a Member of Parliament to judge how good these guarantees actually are, but I assume that the AFM can make a good assessment of this. Have the concerns of the AFM been removed? If so, how? Because the guarantees from PSD2 were already known to the AFM earlier when she called the bell. What has changed here and what is the AFM's view? We have asked in our input about the dangers of data leaks; Mr Sneller also mentioned them. In response to question 99, the Minister writes that financial undertakings are excluded from the obligation under Article 34 GDPR, which does not oblige them to report any data breach to the customers concerned, in order to avoid unnecessary panic. I understand that, but the duty of care also implies that the financial institution, if possible, informs its customers. How's that gonna work out in practice? Who makes that decision, who is aware of it and who is taking part in that decision? And does the Minister have any idea how often a data breach is actually reported to relevant customers? With PSD2, we increase the amount of data that new financial companies can have from us. Will all these new companies also be given the same duty of care? What does the Minister expect on this point? Mr. Chairman. These are all questions about the practical implementation of the legislation, but you can also look at this legislation much more fundamentally. This law creates new markets and new market conditions. This legislation can lead to developments that we can't yet see the consequences of. And here's my hesitation. Under the heading of market forces and deregulation, we have had a lot of operations over the past 30 years that have been designed to stimulate market forces and innovation, mostly at the intersection of public and private services. The post, the O.V., take care, to name one thing. You could call this the creative thinking of liberal right: we're going to make a market. And yet there have always been unforeseen effects, where it has not always been clear whether consumers have improved in terms of price and quality of service. With this legislation, there will be responses to the payment market that cannot be predicted. Many questions are about the protection of personal data and rightly so. It seems well arranged on paper, but can we already know how our data will be used, both by payment services and by information services? What do we do if they are used for socially less attractive purposes that we cannot yet predict? Mr. Chairman. As well as the guarantees, supervision and awareness of people on paper are regulated, we do not know in advance what will happen in practice. For me, that is the argument for evaluating this law. I made an amendment to that effect. The legal experts said that it is actually customary to use a five-year period, but I did mention in the explanatory statement that, if it is necessary, if signals are to come out of the market, it should take place sooner. I'd like a response from the Minister. But it's even more fundamental. Ultimately, this is about information that gives market power to companies. What if large US tech companies get access to our payment data? For this reason, ICT professor Bart Jacobs of Radboud University finds PSD2 a strategic blunder. Europe is leading the way without asking back from the Americans. Is the Minister worried about this? In the replies, the Minister refers to the GDPR and the Competition Act. They protect consumers. But does the ACM have instruments if the market develops in such a way that disproportionate market conditions are created? How is this assessed, monitored and evaluated? Actually, the governments in Europe say "allow your bank to transfer your data to Amazon and Google for free and for nothing" while the starting point is that the information remains ours, the consumer. What vision of the future of payment traffic and the interaction between large banks and large tech companies is behind this? What does this mean for a fundamental vision of longer-term payments? It's a utility function. It's our data, but companies are gonna make a profit from it and, more importantly, they're gonna get an even bigger position of power. All experts say that data is the most important economic resource, the most important power factor of the future. So very specific: what does DNB do with licensing when Google or Amazon reports? What kind of questions does that raise? And shouldn't those questions have been answered first? I realize these are not Dutch questions. That is why I have kept that a little out of the evaluation amendment. These are European questions. I am considering a second-term motion to have a more fundamental debate on this at European level. I know that the European Commission is analysing the role of ICT platforms and perhaps there will also be a PSD3 you do not know, but it is good that it looks at the power of large tech companies. In fact, however, my question is that we should analyse the relationship between the banks and the financial sector and the tech sector more closely at European level. And to answer Mr Van der Linde, who is also worried, but chooses the route to ensure that everyone can compete with Google and Amazon: he actually wants there to be an emergency brake if there are really unwanted effects. There is no such thing at European level. Would the Minister be willing to make an effort to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u22	Mr Snels went back to some practical questions in that beautiful philosophical piece. I appreciate him touching that level, too, because I think it is important to have that discussion too. My question is: if we don't do this, how does he see himself at that abstraction level for the next five years? What evaluation would we have in five years? What developments would we see that are not regulated by the provisions we are talking about today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u23	So you're asking about the content of the evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u24	No. Let me rephrase. What if we do not implement this PSD2 if we do not introduce the directive at European level? There are now also developments where those Big Tech players are also a power factor. What developments would you see for you in the next five years if we didn't do this? I don't necessarily hear you putting down an alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u25	No, and that's why I started with the practical angle in my contribution. From this practical point of view, I have already said that GroenLinks supports this legislation in these areas. So in the end we will simply vote in favour of this legislation. But the concerns are there. These concerns relate to the fact that in the end we need to get more control over this mixture between the technological sector and the banking sector. Of course, I wasn't in Brussels when PSD2 was designed. This started from a discussion about the dominant position of banks. We were going to tackle the monopoly position of banks, especially after the financial crisis. The banks were a bit wrong and fintech was good, innovation was good. I think we're all okay with that, too. At the same time, quite different developments are taking place on the other side of the world. Google and Amazon are becoming more powerful and more important and are also doing something about the dominant position. Those two things seem to have been separate from each other when PSD2 was made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u26	A brief follow-up question from Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u27	Quite right. Just what I'm asking is, what if we don't do something now? I asked in my term to use the ACM to see what should happen to the Big Tech. I see that market concentration, too. Only my question is still: if GroenLinks were in charge, including in Europe, what law would we make? And what happens if we don't do something now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u28	For example, if we did not do anything now, consumers would not be protected from new services that are developing. So the consumer is ultimately better protected by this legislation, just in the very practical application of the law. This is about privacy, about consenting, about how long information can be kept and what it can and can not be used for. All that kind of safeguards are in that law. It is also about the supervision of supervisors. I believe that this is important, because that is the first role of the government: if developments in society are to take place, the government must ensure that, if not, the consumer and the citizen are protected again. And that is what this legislation does, and that is why I am in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u29	Right on this point, a question. Mr Snels, of course, asks very fundamental questions to the Minister. Only, he also agrees: even if the Minister gives a very bad answer or does not answer at all, GroenLinks still votes in favour. What do you think? You have made very fundamental points here. And your amendment calls for an evaluation in five years. In those five years, will you allow all kinds of other abuses? So even if the Minister doesn't answer the question in those five years what should happen if things go wrong with Google and Facebook, will you still vote in favour?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u30	I await the Minister's reply, because I am still considering a second-term motion. But I kind of cut that in half. All these questions that are being asked, consumers have an overview, do they know what they are saying yes to, can they easily withdraw their consent again, is the supervision sufficiently active to check whether companies comply with the rules? It is linked to developments that we cannot foresee, but are much more on the Dutch territory. We can look at that ourselves if we are concerned about the privacy of our own customers here in the Netherlands. But when it comes to Facebook, Google and Amazon, so the intertwinedness of the tech sector and the banking sector is not necessarily a typical Dutch problem. You really need to do that at European level. I would like to say the following, but I cannot do so in an amendment to this legislation: on this very point there should also be some kind of evaluation and a finger on the wrist, and even if it is necessary an emergency braking procedure, which should be regulated at European level. But I can't ride it with an amendment to this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u31	Thank you. However, a brief follow-up question from Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u32	What is the consequence for Mr Snels if there is no emergency braking procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u33	That is European politics. I believe that as a Chamber, we can order the Minister and see if there is a majority in favour of it. I think that many parties in this Chamber are concerned about this interlinkage between the tech sector and the banking sector. Secondly, we have European elections next year. My party as a pro-European party places great emphasis on the fact that it is an important role of the European Commission to ensure that monopolies are broken, that we can tackle large companies and that we can tax large companies, especially tech companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u34	Thank you, Mr. Snels, for your contribution to this debate. Then I turn to Mr Tony van Dijck, a member of the PVV group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u35	Mr. Chairman. It is time for another sound, because what I have heard so far is toe-currant, and interruptions failed. Because today we say yes to something that we can't see the consequences of. According to the PVV, it's very dangerous. We're about to give the Apples, the Googles, the Facebooks and the Amazons of this world access to our payment details. From the reactions from the field, I would point out that, unlike the previous speakers, they are all not so happy with this legislation either. I read that AFM fears misuse of payment data and more cybercrime. Klaas Knot of DNB sees this directive as a trade-out between competition and privacy and is very concerned about the security of our banking data. Those aren't the first to be the best. Bart Jacobs. he was already mentioned.. refers to "a strategic blunder of the highest order." Payment association The Netherlands is afraid of chaos. PwC says the banks aren't ready yet. The Consumers' Association today calls for an extra lock on the door: double check the permission. Mr. Chairman. It is not surprising that the chance of a debacle is life-long. Banks, which now have their hands full to parate all dpos and cyber attacks to protect bank data, will soon be obliged to release all this bank data for anyone who wants to free of charge. It's hard to reconcile. PSD2 should promote competition and innovation in the payment market, but will it? I don't see it. All I see is a lot of question marks. All I see are bears on the road. Consumers will be seduced with gifts to release their payment details, to give permission to throw their whole have and keep on the streets. Try to reverse that as a consumer. Once they have access to your payment details, if only for 90 days, they know exactly what the flag is. I told you, the Apples are getting their hands on gold with this legislation. They want to know everything about us and they already know a lot about us. They're gonna get all of our pay history, free and on a platter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u36	That was another nice, firm text by Mr Van Dijck. I was just picking up on the presents that people are getting lubricated. You yourself are tabling an amendment which regulates that people no longer have to pay for certain payment cards. They must be free for everyone, but it's just those cards where there are all kinds of gifts flying and I don't know what else is being offered, what you want to avoid. To be honest, I don't understand anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u37	Then you have not read the amendment correctly. The amendment states that each payment method must be treated in the same way. If I agree with a store online or in the city that costs something €50, then I shouldn't have to pay €52 later because I pay with iDEAL, or with Visa, or with American Express. Those costs are for the shopkeeper, for the store. I pay, of course, charges for having a Mastercard... everyone pays for...................................................................................................................................................................................... That is what I am saying in the amendment. "Surcharge" it's called.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u38	Exactly. With your ATM card, you never have to pay for it. I've never had a gift from that either. In fact, you have to pay for your payment account. The hallmark of the maps you just mentioned is that they give a lot of gifts, but there are a lot of hidden costs. Therefore, the PvdA agrees that a shopkeeper can also charge it and that you also pay it. I thought you were arguing that, but you are tabling an amendment which is exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u39	No, no, no, that's two different things. The shopkeeper decides which payment methods he accepts and he also accepts the commission or the costs associated with it. It is not the case that as a shopkeeper you are not allowed to charge a fee to the consumer if you choose Mastercard, but you are allowed to do so if you choose a different payment method. I say: create a level playing field for all payment methods; that is so fair. Who is this minister to determine that a particular payment method is too expensive and another reasonable? It's not up to the minister, it's up to the market to determine that. It is now determined by Europe, and I think that is wrong. Mr. Chairman. I told you, the Apples and Googles of this world are getting their hands on gold. This room is standing by and giving them that gold. They know almost everything about us. They're gonna get access to our payment records as well. Abuse is lurking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u40	I see you're loosening up a lot, Mr. Van Dijck. Mr. Sneller is going to go on at the last point, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u41	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijck is now shifting it all back to Europe, while Europe is giving the Member States the opportunity to go for a total or partial ban. The Netherlands opts for a partial ban. You can find all kinds of things, but you can't put your choice on Europe at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u42	That is why I have also tabled an amendment to advocate a total ban, because that was almost the only hole I saw in this directive. I could not amend everything else, because that was not a Member State option. So I have made the most of the only gap that Europe has given me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u43	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u44	Mr. Chairman. It's about surfing now, but I'll get to that later. I find it much more important to give free access to the Google, Facebooks and Apples of this world to our payment details. I remember that when ING wanted to sell our payment details, I believe Google was too small for this room, but now they get it for free from this room. So they know exactly who we're dealing with. They know exactly what we buy and know our payment behavior and our credit rating. They know what we have to spend at the end of the month, how many times we're in the red and whether we're paying our bills on time. They know everything. Big Brother 2.0. No one is waiting for this directive and understands it. Mr. Chairman. Just a few more questions. If you consent to sharing the bank data, does this also mean that companies can see what you have in your savings account? There was some misunderstanding about that. Or are you just giving permission for your payment account? I read in the newspaper that ING's Austrian online daughter recently got right from the judge that she did not have to give access to savings. Can the Minister guarantee that this will also happen in the Netherlands? It also appeared that there were problems with the procedure for withdrawing access to your account. Mr Ronnes has asked a question about this before. DNB would not monitor the deletion of the data. If that is settled now, I ask this Minister. Finally, the surfing. Consumers are often confronted with additional costs, for example when using a credit card, when buying airline tickets online at checkout. This is largely prevented by PSD2, but not in all cases. Why not? Why not in all cases? Why is one payment method treated differently than the other? Why can we still pass on costs to the consumer when they pay with PayPal, AfterPay, American Express or Diners Club? Why does the Netherlands not prohibit surcharging for payment methods, such as in Croatia, Sweden, Italy, Slovakia, Lithuania, Greece, United Kingdom and Austria? Why this randomness? That creates confusion. Sometimes it's okay, but with the other card, it's not allowed. In one Member State it may and in another Member State it may not. The PVV has already argued in favour of this and believes that the Netherlands should make use of the Member State option and introduce a general ban on surcharging. Can the Minister make it clear once again why this should not be the case in the Netherlands? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u45	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijck. Then I shall go to the next speaker on the side of the Chamber. That is Mr Alkaya of the Socialist Party. Then it's your turn, Mr. Nijboer!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In general, almost any initiative that reduces the power of banks and provides more protection for consumers can count on the support of the SP. The revised European Payment Services Directive seemed to do so initially. For example, the implementation law we are talking about today contains additions to the Financial Supervision Act which makes demands on all kinds of new payment services that people already use, for example on the Internet or on their mobile phones. Several parties have already mentioned this. This means that consumers are better protected. By regulating the companies that offer these new services and giving them rights and obligations, you build confidence in these newcomers, giving traditional banks more competition. Basically, that's all good. But time hasn't stood still since 2015. It has been three years since this directive was adopted in Brussels. What may have seemed to be a detail at the time has perhaps become the most important point of this law today. Several parties have also raised this issue. This law also provides for companies to have access to our bank accounts. Those records have proven to be gold. We should therefore not be surprised that not only small innovative companies that want to tackle the established order and are very driven and idealistic are interested in the possibilities offered by this law and directive, but also tech giants such as Facebook and Google. These companies already know what we are looking for on the internet, who our friends and what we all like, but they will soon know what products we buy, where and at what time. So we shouldn't be surprised when Facebook offers us all diet programs because we've started eating more fast food. That was not the intention of this directive three years ago, was it? The economy has changed enormously in a short time. Many of the most valuable and profitable companies in the world no longer extract raw materials from the ground and do not produce products, but do mining and selling data. With this data, they not only earn billions, but now they know so much about us that their policies, how they set up their business and what they make possible, can now influence election results. Their power can no longer be underestimated, let alone if they have access to the bank data, the golden mountain on which the banks are now sitting. That's what this law is all about. As the PVV said, when ING wanted to use our payment data in 2014, the world was too small. The question today is therefore: do we want to give American companies such as Facebook and Google even more insight, the same insight that was so much fuss about at the time? And free of charge, because that is what would make this Implementation Act possible. Does the Minister agree with me that this was initially not the intention of the directive, but will be the outcome? Can we stop this? I don't think so. In my opinion and according to the SP, this Implementation Act does not contain sufficient safeguards to protect people, and it unintentionally makes those tech giants even more powerful and richer than they already are. We could later refuse access to our bank data to these companies on paper. But if people are made too difficult, what these companies are likely to do, or if they all offer advantages to people who agree, for example by linking offers to them all, or making it detrimental not to agree by making it more expensive, it turns out in practice that many people will press "agreement." D66 summarized that well: we often agree explicitly, but not consciously. In my view, this law simply allows it, and it will be the outcome in this case too. We can't just let that happen now, can we? Does the Minister also see that there are many ways in this law that will ensure that this will ultimately be the result? And is it if it happens then those people's own fault, or is it innocence, because we already foresee it and could have prevented it now? That is also why I have proposed a number of amendments. Despite the fact that full harmonisation was chosen in Brussels three years ago, these amendments are now minimally necessary in order to avoid predictable abuses. I'll go through them very briefly. If there is a need for more explanation, I will hear it, but I would like to leave it very briefly, because the amendments have simply been circulated. First of all, the amendment on item No. 13. In order to ensure that consent is only given consciously, all companies wishing to access a bank account should draw up a package leaflet containing what they intend to do with that information. The submission of this leaflet is required before consent can be given for access to his or her bank details. In lower legislation, we can then determine what should be included in such a package leaflet. With the amendment in part No. 9 then I intend to set up a preliminary procedure, so that we as the House of Representatives can also remain involved, keep a finger on the wrist and if things go wrong we can talk about what extra should be in such a package leaflet or what might be possible. I can't imagine, but I could. The amendment in part No. 14 aims to include a legal obligation for companies to reflect on how the information they provide can be made understandable to everyone, including those who are not lawyers or privacy experts. Because we all know the long-term conditions that people just tend to agree to. Several parties have already mentioned this. The amendment in part No. 15 regulates that people can withdraw their consent at any time and that the bank and any other companies to which the data have been provided will then have to delete that data within 30 days. Your bank is therefore required to share your withdrawal with the other companies with which they shared your data, your bank details. Finally, the amendment to item No. 16. I have just mentioned this briefly in my interruption. This amendment stipulates that banks are obliged to draw up an annual report containing the data recorded, processed and stored during the relevant period. This way you prevent people from being followed because they've ever, perhaps unintentionally, agreed. So that's not what the GDPR's gonna do. The General Data Protection Regulation provides that we have the right of access. But then you still have to actively know that something is there, go to the website and submit a request. That could take your bank a while. It is then required to send you an information document containing the information you requested about your payment details. But if you don't know that your data is being shared, because it was in the pages of long terms and conditions you agreed to, then you don't know that you must actively go to the website to submit such a request. This amendment allows people, if they have ever agreed, to see in an annual review which companies share their data with. We do this more often, by the way, in matters we want people to be aware of. I get a Uniform Pension Review every year, which shows how my retirement plan stands. I can ask a bank for an annual review of the state of my savings. That is precisely what makes people aware, because such an overview is sent to them instead of having to actively submit a request on their bank's website.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u47	A very brief interruption, because Mr Ronnes himself is also at the interrupting microphone. I think this is an important amendment, because I think it is important that there is an overview, that consumers know what they have all said yes to. At the same time, I also found the interruption of Mr Ronnes interesting: isn't there some kind of dashboard possible, with which you can get that insight at any time? I would like to ask the Minister whether Mr Alkaya's amendment also offers the possibilities that Mr Ronnes would like.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u48	That's not really a question for me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u49	No. That's what I'm establishing. I give the floor to the next person who has come forward, Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u50	It was a good interruption, by the way, and also a good question. I hear that Mr Alkaya is pursuing the same approach as we are with the dashboard. He suggests it as if citizens, clients will be flooded with documents and e-mails and that by printing them only the local football club that comes to collect old paper will be better, while the clients themselves, in my words, do not see the forest through the trees; it just becomes an overkill. I think we should go to something practical, something workable. The question is whether we should find out here. But I wonder if the way you're showing it here, it's really gonna work in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u51	I should hope not. If it's going to be a huge safari of all the magazines you get sent, that means that all those authorities have access to our payment accounts. I would find it worse if that were the case, if there were dozens of statements and we do not know that. I'd say that's a lot worse. So I'd rather get dozens of those statements and then think, "Hey, shit," I'm sorry, I don't know how to include that in the stenogram "I'm apparently being followed by all these organizations." That is exactly what I am trying to do with this amendment. I just want people to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u52	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Apart from these amendments, many questions have also been asked by all kinds of parties, including very fundamental questions. I have just mentioned that, three years ago, maximum harmonisation was chosen in Brussels. There is therefore a risk that the Minister will say nothing can and should be done, because Brussels decided three years ago. He can also say: in the meantime we have a stricter privacy regulation, the GDPR, so Mr Alkaya does not have to worry. I should like to conclude with these two points on the European process. Despite the choice of maximum harmonisation, the Directive offers possibilities for additions. Why else would a directive be adopted at the time and not a regulation that is directly applicable? For example, the Directive states that Member States may require a payment service provider to provide information on paper or other durable medium to the payer free of charge at least once a month. In the explanatory statement, the Minister said: "This option is not used. It has not been found that there is a need for this." How does the Minister know this? Has that been investigated? If so, how? I cannot imagine that there is no need for more information on the part of the consumer, especially since the Consumers' Association, in my view, indicated yesterday that it would expect guarantees on the consumer's understanding and that this would be crystal clear. So the Minister has not made use of the possibilities offered by the directive at all. Why not? Finally, I would like to stress once again that the directive is already three years old. That's a long time in the world now. If the directive has then excluded additional measures which have now become necessary, is it not the duty of the Minister to admit this and then to do something about it, in order to provide the consumer with the protection that is needed? I am thinking of the evaluation proposed by Mr Snels or, already, of the implementing law. In the meantime, is this directive still working? I hope, therefore, that the Minister will not come up with the story that nothing is possible anymore because Brussels has changed its rules. This debate would then be rather symbolic, and it would be carried out more out of tradition than we, as a Dutch Parliament, actually have something to say. I'd be very sorry to hear that. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u54	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. Then I'll go to the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. That is Mr Nijboer, member of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a theme that interests me and comes to my heart. When I started in the Chamber, there were a lot of debates about malware, phishing and consumers who lost their money because they were fooled by criminals. Money was written off from their account and they were badly compensated by banks. That was pretty common. We made an own-initiative paper on this at the time and the legislation has been amended. You can also see that Internet crime is a lot less common today than it was a year ago. But you never have to praise the night before it's day, or what's the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u56	The day isn't praise for the evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u57	Yeah, see? I'm in the group with Attje Kuik and you won't be able to say a proverb, Mr. President. He has an expertise in the halying of proverbs and now we all do it. I heard our real President, Mr Delors, you are now our real President, Mr Delors, who is doing it today. But the situation has improved and that is also because the government is taking more action, supervision has increased and there is more attention to it. Banks also need to compensate faster. They have to transfer money much faster now. Sometimes people have been waiting a long time for that. So this is legislation that concerns me very much. I start with one fundamental question and then I have five practical questions. So I'm actually doing it the other way around. Mr Snels had a very good fundamental consideration, but I have one question to add. It's about the European passport. We have a whole system of European consumer protection. In itself, it's good that we have that. In America they say: leave everything to the market; we deregulate. Here we regulate more. However, this system is based on the assumption that the regulator who provides the licence will continue to monitor it and that it will be well. This is a fundamental assumption throughout the legislation: if you have a nice online app or if you can serve consumers in payment traffic and have been licensed by a regulator in Malta, Ireland or Greece, then everything goes well. And I have great doubts about that. It really is a big problem with this legislation. It's all written down analytically and legally well in that law. We really do see that differently, but this is still a big problem. This can easily be illustrated by the financial crisis that started with Landsbanken ten years ago this month. They had a license in Iceland, with which they were also allowed to collect savings in the Netherlands. The Dutch Bank was then in charge of monitoring with its hands on its back, at least in practice; you can discuss how many powers they had. And then it went wrong. I am so afraid that this can happen here too, that relatively small companies get privacy-sensitive data from Dutch consumers and might go bankrupt; this is also happening in new, innovative companies. Then we must hope that this is well secured by a foreign supervisor, who also has something else to do. The Greek regulators also have something different to do in the banking sector than to monitor this authorisation. Yeah, that's the practice. My question is: shouldn't the Dutch supervisory authority also formally have much more powers to ensure that it doesn't go wrong? We trust it very easily and legally it is all closed and in order, but in practice I have doubts about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u58	Mr. Nijboer, I would like to give Mr. Van der Linde the opportunity to post an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u59	I have heard a great deal from Mr Nijboer in the past about the power of those few banks we have in the Netherlands. And now I actually hear him say: put a fence around the Netherlands again; then we do it with the three or four big banks we have. I don't understand any of that. I'd say just open it up and keep everyone sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u60	I made the same substantive argument and now I'm getting such a flat interruption. I'm saying I'm in favour of you using those apps, but I'm worried about privacy. They are not all Dutch banks, with which much has gone wrong in the past. They're not all solid banks. With such a European passport, wherever it comes from, an app company can offer something. We're watching it happen, too. We're seeing flash credit from England. We must then ban it by means of legislation. So it also happens in practice. Companies will be on the market here with a permit from a country where you can ask yourself whether it is so well arranged. Then people's records aren't safe. That is what I think this debate is for. I'm just asking serious questions about that. Mr Van der Linde had a very good article in the Algemeen Dagblad, one of his best on the financial sector of recent times, in which he also says that privacy is important. So I was actually expecting support for this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u61	I understand that Mr Nijboer thinks that I am shutting down his speech, but I was just trying to make it understandable, just for the consumer. That consumer sees all these apps coming along and probably doesn't even see if those apps are on the market in the Netherlands, because they are worldwide. This is therefore completely excluded from this range. You can't set a fence. You can't say it has to be through a Dutch banking license.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u62	It's possible. You just have to want it. As far as I am concerned, the Dutch Bank should be tasked with checking that other supervisors have done well. I can already see Mr Sneller looking at this: that is indeed contrary to the European passport idea, but I have concerns about privacy. Sometimes it's about small businesses. We can pretend all that data is always safe, but such companies can also go bankrupt. What happens then? We could have arranged all this on paper, but is that true? It is very complicated, but I think that the Dutch Data Protection Authority should be able to intervene. We shouldn't rely on it so easily. The structure is theoretically correct, but is it true in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u63	Finalizing, Mr. Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u64	Very briefly. So do you think it is possible that you forbid the Dutch gentleman or the lady who would like to have a particular app to use it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u65	If De Nederlandsche Bank finds that privacy is not secured or that data is not properly protected in the event of bankruptcy: sure. That's where I care. My concern is that not all regulators are capable of doing so, because that is an illusion. Do you think the Italian central bank is now working very hard to assess these apps? I don't believe that at all, but we trust that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u66	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u67	The misery is, after that, I go on to say that companies may also know which regulator is the least equipped and make use of it. That's the question I'm asking here. Mr. Chairman. I have five other points. We talked about the dashboard. I wrote an own-initiative paper on that. At the time, the Minister thought that was quite an interesting thought. I understand that you cannot fully record such a dashboard in the law, but my question is how, as a consumer, you will be able to choose what actions you will give permission for and which you will not. Can you say very easily: I just want a bank account and nothing else? That must be a free choice; it must appeal to everyone in the Chamber. How can you take care of that, even a little practically? Explain it to us as MPs, but also as citizens. My second question concerns one's own risk. This will be reduced from €150 to €50. That is a good step, but we have been arguing for €0 for years. If criminals take money from someone, why do they have to sit on the blisters? What's the reason for that? These amounts often have to be paid in phishing and malware, so really in online crime. What kind of bullshit is that you have to pay money for that? People are almost obliged to bank online, because you can hardly have your money paid in cash anymore. Then why do you have to take the risk if things go wrong? You can take it to zero, I have found another Member State option, I say to Mr Van Dijck. I saw that the CDA and GroenLinks also asked for this in the written round. I'd just be for that. There are other countries that do it. People already have misery, have to ask their couch for it back and are in uncertainty. It's not that funny. You don't have to charge them with 50 bucks. I would therefore like to say to the Minister: just take that to zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u68	An amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u69	Yes, I have an amendment in the making. I still have to ask for co-signatories, so Mr Van Dijck can apply. I have not yet tabled the amendment, but it is ready; we will not vote until next week. Mr. Chairman. I come to the next point. I'm gonna go get my list of loose ends, 'cause I've got a lot to do this week. My next point concerns thezzp'ers. What is so much different about a consumer than a small SME's orzzp's with a payment account? Why aren't they protected in the same way? There's been a lot of talk about that. The interbranch organisations are not shouting so loudly, but I am in charge of that. I ask the Minister: why are they not protected in the same way? Two final points. First, the reliability. I got an e-mail that I actually liked. It said: "Our pin system is extremely reliable: 99.7% or 99.8% of transactions go without interference. Everything is taken into account. That's all going great. And then you'll have new players and there's no standard for that at all." Has there also been any thought that you should actually set some sort of standard to keep a bit of reliable payment traffic? So you can force that a little bit and supervise it. How does the Minister view this? Finally, something that I have often called attention to, but which I am very much in favour of. You can't even see on your transcripts sometimes. I've just looked at who's writing something off. Then there are only a few letters and a few digits. That's worthless, because the banks want you to check that something is rightly written off, but you can't see where that was. You know the time and the place, but you can't see at all where that was. You're just gonna have to narrow the amount down a little bit. That transcript should just say where you've been, right? Did you go to a bar or did you buy something? What about the company? It's not settled now. That can be arranged by law, but that takes a long time and then we are two years further. I actually think those banks should do it themselves. Does the Minister intend to arrange with the banks for this simply to become apparent fairly quickly? Because it really doesn't do us any good if there's some company name that you can't tell at all whether you've been shopping or spending money there. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u70	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. Then we have come to the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. I shall suspend the sitting until 8.20 p.m. to allow the Minister of Finance to prepare his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u71	The next item is the Implementation Act revised Payment Services Directive. I would like to leave the Minister of Finance, whom I have already welcomed among us, to speak for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u72	Mr President, thank you very much and thank your Members very much. Many questions have already been asked in the written round, but I have nevertheless experienced the first term on the part of the Chamber as a true bombardment of questions that still have to be answered. Let me make a few general comments and then specifically address the privacy, supervision, surcharging and a number of other topics that have come along. Mr. Chairman. The developments in payments are, of course, extremely rapid; many of the Members have said so. A lot of new and innovative payment services have been created just over the past year. These developments have been an important reason for the revised Payment Services Directive, PSD2. The idea behind this has been that, in my opinion, this is not under discussion today either, in order to make cross-border payments easier, safer and cheaper for consumers and to help them gain a better understanding of expenditure and revenue. That has been the aspiration of this bill. However, parties providing these new, innovative services do need access to these services. Such access has also played an important role in the implementation process, as it is essential to ensure the privacy of the account holder. Many of the Members have put their finger on the sore spot there. I share many of the concerns that have been expressed, especially in the area of privacy. The balance between innovation and the desire to continue on the one hand and the guarantee of privacy on the other, must be taken into account; Mr Sneller and others have very clearly called for this consideration to be taken into account. I will therefore answer Mr Sneller's next question immediately. I would now like to stress that it has taken a lot of time because of the care and changes in the letter of amendment and say that this has been the reason, but Mr Sneller asked: are we too late in doing so and are we running into a million-dollar penalty, or does it mean that companies are leaving? The first is not yet the case and seems unlikely. In any case, the number of fines that the Netherlands has received from me is extremely small and we do not have any signs that companies have left, but I can imagine that question very well. Moreover, one should have always gone to a country that has already implemented the directive and there are several countries that are in the same boat as we are. Mr. Chairman. Mr Alkaya and others referred to maximum harmonisation. That's right. That indeed means that we have to take much of what is in the law as it is. At the same time, I do see a number of ways of responding to the concerns that have been expressed and which may still be expressed in motions or already included in amendments. So I am a little less gloomy about the feeling that there would be nothing left to steer. Mr. Chairman. I have one further comment to make on Mr Ronnes. If I am not mistaken, it was he who asked about the change we wanted to make. The idea that we should take care of this best for the consumer was the inspiration to come up with the letter of amendment and to designate the Personal Data Authority, although you can say that there are still more parties involved. It is, I think, fundamental to stress that we are all, the Chamber, myself with the Ministry, but also DNB and the Personal Data Authority, on the same side of the rope. They are all in favour of protecting the consumer and the privacy of the consumer, but we believe that the Dutch Data Protection Authority is even better able to implement this, so that has been the inspiration for the letter of amendment. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Snels asked how we know that our payment data will only be used for payment services and not for socially less attractive purposes; I think that was his wording. The directive is clear on that. The payment details of a customer may only be used by a payment service provider for the provision of payment services. If the payment service provider would like to use the customer's data for other services, such as the transmission or reselling of the customer, it is likely that it will then be "to other parties', then that is not possible. I add that customers are well and clearly informed about this, also on the basis of the GDPR. The Personal Data Authority then supervises it and assesses whether this happens. I think it's a two-stage. Can it happen? So it's not supposed to happen. If that is the case, you will find yourself on a different route, but then there is already an offence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u73	Mr. Secretary, I have an interruption for you from Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u74	I have a brief question on this point. In my view, this means, for example, that if Facebook is to provide payment services, on the basis of this directive, the data it obtains from it should not be mixed with the data it has from its social media services. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u75	Yeah, that's my understanding, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u76	Does this mean that it cannot be done under the same legal status, that Facebook should not have the same data as a company and that it should therefore set up a separate company to provide these payment services?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u77	That has to do with the Chinese walls you expect within a company. Let me say something about that later. Then you're talking about some of the providers who might, probably and probably will be on this market and how they'll deal with it. Next, you have to put around the fences in the terminology to make sure that there is no mixing. Mr. Chairman. I was referring to a question from Mr Snelter, Mr Snels and Mr Ronnes. They asked what I think about account holders having an overview through their bank of the parties having access to their payment accounts. Mr Nijboer reminded me of Mr Nijboer's own-initiative paper. Since then I also have a visualization of what it might look like. Quite frankly, I think it would be very useful. We all know those screens from online banking. Those reviews are getting better and better and better. So I'm inclined to think it would be very helpful for the consumer. Here, however, we are bumping into maximum harmonisation. Legally, I can't help it. I cannot lay down any further rules, but I think that the advantage will be seen not only by the Chamber and by me, but also by DNB and by the banks. I think that we are dealing with a list of matters which, although not covered by the law, I can say to the sector and DNB that we should want to do so, whether or not it is intrusive. Here's one of those I think is high on that list.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u78	We are discussing the implementation of the directive here. From that field of view, we can't do anything here. But could we, by means of other legislation, from the obligation of care of banks, impose a more compelling burden on them to provide for this sort of thing? Then we will not impose it through the directive, but through other legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u79	I understand Mr Ronnes' question. But I think we will only get there at the moment when my conversation and the intrusiveness of that conversation would have resulted in nothing. My strong suspicion is that banks themselves will appreciate the added value of Mr Nijboer's idea, which has also been expressed by others, and that consumers will need it. I would therefore first like to take the path of the conversation with De Nederlandsche Bank and, where necessary, with the banks. If that is not enough and if we thought together that this gap should be closed, then we could still look at it. Now, as far as I am concerned, it is too early for that. I very much agree with Mr Ronnes: the directive itself cannot be amended. Then Mr Ronnes also asked whether there were sufficient guarantees when the consent was withdrawn. The answer is yes. To prevent a payment service provider from accessing payment information, the user may simply terminate the agreement. It is good to stress that at any time the payment service provider will only have access if the user has given permission to do so through a strong client authentication service provider that remains a difficult word "s'. If the user does not give that consent, the payment service provider shall not, by definition, have access either. During the discussion about undoing, I think several speakers thought of that screen. Could you get it undone from the screen right away? I believe that Mr Van der Linde and Mr Sneller referred to that. For the record, the bank can't do that. It must really be the consumer himself who, presumably on the basis of the survey, sees what he has all given permission for and can then decide to withdraw that consent. What I can do is take this point with me. But we have to make sure that we don't mix those two things together. The bank must present the overview but should not play a role in it; perhaps I can put it that way. It must then be easy for the customer to cancel again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u80	It would be very nice if the Minister would at least include it in his talks. But do I understand that even if the bank transfers one-in-one hundred percent of the customer's wish, this directive is not allowed to do so? So if I, as a customer in my banking environment, move the slider, if the bank doesn't change anything about it and only lets that payment service know that the customer doesn't want it anymore, then shouldn't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u81	I'm just making sure I look back in the hall, where I see all the nodding faces. You say it exactly as I understand it. The bank is not allowed to carry out transactions that could help one way or the other. In order to maintain that distinction, a bank may facilitate the existence of an overview of those who have all been authorised in the past, but should not allow the bank itself to undo that consent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u82	That would be a shame. I would have liked to have explored whether it is technically possible that it is, as it were, just a trap that ends immediately with that payment service if that is simply the sincere wish of not only the Consumers' Association but also many customers themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u83	Mr Sneller took the words out of my mouth, because that was exactly my question. My question in the preparation was whether it would not be nice if you could click on a link and then immediately arrive at the part of the website where you only have to check "yes" or "no." But my understanding is that this is not allowed in this way. I can get a closer look at it, but I think the overview is possible, but not facilitating the click-through. Mr. Chairman. Can the customer give permission per individual account? Or does the customer immediately consent to other accounts? This is a question from Mr Ronnes. Let me also be very clear about this: it is only about the specific account. Of course, most people have more than one account, for example a joint account, or they also have children's accounts on them. You're consenting to that one, specific account. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Ronnes also asked whether the customer can always understand the consent given, even if that consent is old or inactive. It is good to stress that the MOB, the Social Dialogue Payment Traffic, recommended banks earlier this year to provide customers online with an overview of payment service providers that have been authorised. Then we'll be back at the dashboard. I'm gonna call on banks to do that. The GDPR requires that that consent should be able to be withdrawn as easily as possible. It is therefore also a responsibility of the payment service provider, even if it is an old or inactive consent. Mr Van der Linde of the VVD asked for a very different point. In my opinion, he was part of their specific concerns by various parties from the field, from very different plumage. One of the concerns that I can well imagine he brought that visual expression is "or that means that all customers should then be sent a letter and, worse, or in theory it could mean that if customers don't respond, the contract no longer exists and then you get into the weird situation that people can't pin anymore. Of course, that cannot be the intention in any way. It's up to the supervisor, so it's up to the Dutch Data Protection Authority, to give this extra guidance, but I'm not saying it with so many round words for nothing. This makes it part of not only the legal history, but it is also clear towards the Dutch Data Protection Authority. The Dutch Data Protection Authority will also, in consultation with DNB, shape the precise implementation of the consent requirement. In any case, in the conversation I will have with the AP about publishing that guidance, I will stress again what is intended and what is not intended. Because it sounds theoretical, but that feeling really shouldn't continue. Mr Nijboer and also Mr Sneller and Mr Van der Linde brought up another case which I have also tried to introduce in advance. What if you're doing business with a third party, if you're excited and you've let yourself be convinced by everything that's been exchanged in the debate? The gentlemen had several examples, from the privacy-loving friend to other friends, and perhaps also those who simply come into contact who are not part of the inner circle, but with whom business is done. This is and remains a complicated point. For the sake of clarity, third party data may only be processed by the payment service provider to the extent strictly necessary for the requested payment service and never for other purposes. The payment service provider should also assess whether the importance of processing subsequently outweighs the rights of that third party to privacy protection. In doing so, it is a bit of a legal formulation that is relevant again or that the third party could have expected its data to be processed. So that's a legal test. By the way, people are always free to complain. I think that, with everything I have said about it so far, it is simply fair to acknowledge that there is a certain risk, not a great risk, but a certain risk, and that, despite the rules and the safeguards, it is up to the supervisor to pay very close attention to this point. When I look at this whole thing, I think that much of the privacy for the consumer is immediately relatively sharp to frame and regulate. It is probably going well here, but this is simply a subject that we will have to continue to follow in practice. Quite impossible to rule out is just not a risk. I want to be clear about that. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Sneller asked about the requirement of express consent from PSD2 in practice. He used a nice wording there, because he said: express consent is not always the same as conscious consent. I had to think about my own cookie click system, which is just a short moment of irritation and then push away a cookie as soon as possible. So it shouldn't be. PSD2 requires explicit consent at two times. In the context of the conclusion of the contract, the payment service provider should request explicit consent for the processing of the personal data. This also means that, in any case, the parts of the agreement on this matter must be clearly distinguishable from the rest of the agreement and must be agreed separately. But, of course, what this is about, I think that is Mr Sneller's real question, and that is what I want to include in the discussions with DNB and the Dutch Data Protection Authority is that you have screens and screens. It's about the kind of screen that makes you get alerted as a consumer and thinks: hey, this is a screen that I haven't already clicked away 100 times, this is another case. It says "watch" upstairs and it has a different design. I think you can shape that with people who understand psychology and nudation in such a way that the chances of people being alerted are much greater, or not. It should just stay far away from the cookie click system. You have to shape it in a different way. Mr. Chairman. I would like to return to the question of the double slot, to which Mr Van der Linde and Mr Sneller referred. Then we are back to my answer on maximum harmonisation. So I can't get you that double lock. The bank is not allowed to check extra. But it's something I can discuss with DNB. Mr Sneller asked: what about the democratic legitimacy of the 90-day deadline? It may be theoretical, but what if that 90-day EBA deadline were to be adjusted? I think we all like that term, because three months isn't nothing at all, but it's an easy time. Mr Sneller is right: EBA draws up the drafts. But they must be approved by the European Commission. This also means that the European Parliament can, at least indirectly, monitor this. I think that is what democratic legitimacy must be found in. But I admit that in theory EBA could make an adjustment and that the parliament, let alone the Dutch Parliament, is not directly involved in that in advance. Is it true that the bank transactions can only be reviewed up to 90 days ago? Yeah, up to 90 days. Of course, it can also be a shorter period. It also depends on what the account information service provider is such a great word! It has been agreed with the consumer. But 90 is the maximum in the directive. In theory, of course, you could ask for permission again afterwards. If the consumer gives it again, there is, in a way, a new contract. Mr. Chairman. Why does the limit of 90 days apply? It is precisely because we want the consumer to be protected, because there is simply a maximum period during which an organisation can operate with the data and therefore the consumer is aware of it when those 90 days have expired. Again, this permission to access the payment account is given by applying strong customer authentication. Again and again you will get that 90 days extension again, unless an organisation would decide in the first application itself to a shorter period, which is not unthinkable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u84	But what if I've had a bank account for five years and made all kinds of payments there? That information is no longer from the bank; that information is mine. I should therefore be free to do so. If I want to do so, I should be able to make it available to an account information service in order to produce all kinds of calculations and operations during the 90 days of that authorisation. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u85	I think I'm talking about the almost mirrored thing: every time the account information service provider wants to have access to the payment account, it has to ask for that permission after the time limit has expired. I think Mr Sneller means something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u86	That's right. This referred more to the example that, if I go to my banking environment now and want to download bank statements, I will have to pay if that is further back than 18 months. My question is: how is that going to work for account information services if I want my bank to provide my account information to a digital household book over the last five years? Or is it just the period of my transaction history for those last 90 days?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u87	That's a good question and you can see me puzzle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u88	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u89	I'm gonna buy some time to make sure I give that answer right at once. Mr Sneller looks back five years in his example, but at least at his bank and mine, you can't go back in history more than 18 months at the press of a button. That's what I noticed when I needed older information. So to put those three terms next to each other, I'm gonna buy some time. Mr. Chairman. Mr Sneller also asked: if the consumer changes his bank account, does the circus actually start again? The answer is yes, because then there is a new account. Then the process must also be re-examining it is not such a complicated process. Then Mr Ronnes asked about the concept known to the lovers of this debate as tying. That is a situation that I think we all see the disadvantages of. The fundamental question on the table is whether it is desirable to pay for the provision of personal data, because of course they often carry an intrinsic value. The EDPS, the European Data Protection Supervisor, has not been critical of this for nothing in the past, because you buy off by providing that data. I can see that very well. I also see very clearly that it will be the vulnerable who will think: this is a small difference but a material difference and so I am going to provide my data. What I would like to propose is that the Personal Data Authority should pay very close attention to this point. For the record, at the final stage, it is the judge who decides on the conditions under which this may be done. But let me, at least, draw attention to that. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr. Sneller asked whether a payment service provider could offer a credit card at the end of the month, which might be another variant on the previous theme.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Also a situation that we consider undesirable with each other. Again, if data is obtained by providing a payment service, they may only be used for that purpose. Commercial use must also always take account of the separate legal basis. In theory, with everything there is to guarantee, you could imagine such a situation. I am sure Mr Sneller will be able to go into other cases in a moment and I cannot say that it is completely out of the question that the credit card is then offered. So it is not desirable, but I suspect, at least in specific cases, that it is possible. That is why this should also be on the list to discuss with the Dutch Data Protection Authority and De Nederlandsche Bank. Then Mr Ronnes asked whether, within the framework of the internal market, I would like to take the shadow side of consumer protection with me in the European Union and would like to highlight the great attention and concern that the Chamber has with regard to privacy and consumer protection. I already did, but I'd really like to do that. It also helps me that the Chamber calls upon me to do so with a lot of voice and emphasis. I will also draw the Commission's attention to privacy and consumer protection in the context of the evaluation which the Commission is going to carry out in a few years' time and which, moreover, has a shorter period of time than Mr Snels proposed. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm at the monthly review. Mr Alkaya asked: how do we know that there is no need for the monthly review and why is the Member State option not being used? Look, there is only a Member State option in the directive to provide an overview of payment transactions made on paper or another durable medium. So this is a statement of account. This option can therefore not be used to get some sort of overview of all permissions. That's really different. The Directive simply does not allow for the use of this Member State option for anything else because of the obligation to achieve maximum harmonisation. So I myself think that the anchor behind which we have to lie is the screen that Mr Nijboer started earlier and which I think we all expect from.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u90	But what does the Minister think of that idea? Do you think he'd think that's a good idea? Or does he not find it attractive to think about it at all, because Brussels decided otherwise three years ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u91	But does Mr Alkaya mean Mr Nijboer's proposal? I have made it very clear that this seems to me to be a very good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u92	No, I mean the overview that payment service providers are going to proactively send to the people they see the data from, so that those people get more than just a right of access and know which companies and organisations follow them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u93	Honestly, I don't know if this is the shortcut to the target. It surprises me every time how many people in the Netherlands are banking online, including how many 70-plussers are banking online. In the meantime, I know that there is a single member of the cabinet who does not do all that, but I will not tell you who that is; it is an absolute minority. I expect to have much more of that kind of thing in good Dutch real-time available in a screen, in the secure environment of the bank. I expect more added value from this than from an overview that the bank will be obliged to send out, apart from the discussion that we had before, namely that I cannot go through with this directive in my hand. That is the short answer, but I wanted to explain a little in the direction of Mr Alkaya. That's a hypothetical question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u94	I would appreciate it if we could have a substantive discussion in this Chamber on what we find useful. If the directive does not allow that, because three years ago it could not foresee what the world is like now, three years later, with the Google and the Facebooks, then we could then look at what we can do together. I do not think that it is satisfactory enough simply to have a reply in the vein of 'there is a different definition, maximum harmonisation has been chosen'. So if the Minister thinks that such an overview could have added value, I would like to enter into that conversation. I would also like to convince him that this actually adds value to those people who do not automatically walk around thinking: hey, which organizations would follow me and keep an eye on my payment account, let me check on my bank's website?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u95	I had hoped to be able to count on Mr Alkaya's appreciation, given the substantive answer I gave. I simply added that this is a hypothetical situation. I have tried to explain what I expect the most added value of; let me now formally baptize the "Nijboer dashboard." So that is not Mr Alkaya's solution. I tried to explain that. However, I think it is appropriate to add that, although we would come to the conclusion that Mr Alkaya's solution is the best, the fact that maximum harmonisation is opposed to it. I just want to be transparent about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u96	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u97	If you have a brief addition, I will give you the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u98	Thank you, Mr President, because I think it is an important point. How, then, does the Minister intend to deal with the risk that people who are not working on it every day will somehow feel the need to take this into account and still check with a bank what organization is monitoring their payment data? I have to think of the possibility that, if they are doing, for example, internet banking, they will automatically get a pop-up or that they will be reminded of it without even knowing 'hey, I have to check it'. How does the Minister intend to deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u99	If we do this now, because, again, we're all pulling on the same side of the rope. We all think privacy is very important. I sincerely believe that, especially when you look at the extent to which online banking is being conducted in the Netherlands, the Nijboer dashboard is by far the most effective, also because of real-time information. But let me add to my basket, which I have to discuss with the AP and De Nederlandsche Bank, the following question: how big is the group of people who these two institutions think do not use online banking and who would have been helped with a written overview? If that is a substantial number, would I then ask them the question: can we then organise something on paper for that? I'm reluctant about it. I don't want to promise that either, but I'd like to discuss the question. So I can promise Mr Alkaya that. Mr Van Dijck asked something else which goes in the direction of a question that I have answered earlier. He asked whether parties would also see what was in the savings account. I think I have just explained that this is really about the one account and not about an overview of the savings account or savings accounts of children, partners and so on. Mr. Chairman. In the category of privacy, I still have Mr Van Dijck's question as to whether the problems relating to withdrawal of consent have been resolved. Is it clear whether data deletion is being monitored? The AP will, in consultation with DNB, form the precise implementation of this explicit consent requirement. That is what has to be done. I will do so, but I would like to repeat part of the previous point, which I would like to mention to the AP, about the publication of guidance on how to implement this concept. The GDPR stipulates that data should be deleted if they are no longer necessary for the provision of payment services. So I think that is settled, but this directive is about very new ones, I think I can say innovative ones. We all do not know exactly what the future will look like. I cannot already describe in detail how DNB and the AP will shape this. All the more important, therefore, are the evaluations, which I very much feel for, but I will come to that later. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to a question from Mr Nijboer, one from his list of five more practical questions: how can you give that consent in practice? Of course, I would also like to give a very practical answer to this, but the reality is that every payment institution will set it up just the same. At the same time, precisely the consent requirements and guidance that the Personal Data Authority will give at the front will force uniformity. That is what I can give a practical answer to at the moment. Mr. Chairman. I'm here to supervise. Mr Snels asked how the reporting obligation works in the event of data leaks or incidents. I think he also referred to Article 99. The payment service provider reports an incident on the basis of PSD2 to DNB, at De Nederlandsche Bank. If the incident can cause damage to customers of the payment service provider, the payment service provider is obliged to report it to the data subjects and to inform them about the possibilities to limit the damage. This is, I say, the responsibility of the payment service provider. This will therefore also apply to new parties. Mr Snels also asked whether all new companies would be given the same duty of care on a data breach and what I expect from it. I think it is good to stress that these issues are regulated in the GDPR and in the Dutch implementing law. The GDPR provides that the controller reports a data breach to the AP. That is, therefore, also legally regulated at the present time. Those rules apply to all financial undertakings and therefore to new payment service providers. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Linde asked about the peak tube. I noticed that the company that I think he refers to has also been inspired by that peak tube in the naming. Any payment service provider wishing to provide its services in or from the Netherlands will, of course, need a permit from DNB. You can then develop activities within the EU. I think it's good to say the following. Mr Van der Linde actually sketches it quite black and white: "We are not yet ready, but does that hinder?" But I think he himself said that draft applications could be submitted from 6 July. That is actually being used. So far, between the 15 and 20 parties to this window have indicated that they want to apply for a licence. I do not know how wide this debate is being followed, but companies can also report there as a result of this debate. If other Member States have already implemented PSD2 a majority has done so; a substantial group has not yet done so, but a majority has done so............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Entrepreneurs are always impatient, as Mr Van der Linde recognises, but my impression is that this entrepreneur should really be able to get going. Mr. Chairman. Mr Sneller asked for the same thing: did DNB choose an effective intermediate solution? Here's the exact answer. Sixteen parties between fifteen and twenty were therefore accurate in stating their intention to apply for a licence. As I said at the beginning, we do not have any concrete signals that companies would actually emigrate. That does not affect my feeling of haste either, I say to Mr Sneller. I just think it's sloppy that this has been going on for so long. At the same time, as far as I am concerned, the amendment to the letter of amendment is really an improvement. So there's the classic dilemma between speed and care. Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels and Mr Alkaya asked what would happen if the large tech companies in the United States were given access to the payment data and if I was concerned about that. Then we are really back to the dilemma between uniting innovation on the one hand... Especially after learning about Facebook, many were excited about the idea that large innovative companies, which had an excellent reputation until recently, would bring innovation to the Dutch market and do something about the Dutch market, where we have a relatively small number of banks. I think a lot of people actually expected something of that. Now that's turned around. I understand that and I feel it myself. You're worried about what that's gonna mean. It is good to stress that all parties that offer a payment service, including those large companies from America, must comply with the PSD2 rules. As far as I am concerned, this regulation is a real step forward on each of the elements I mentioned earlier. That is why I thought the question that Mr Sneller asked someone in the event of interruption was so good: what if you hadn't done all this? I honestly think we'd be a lot worse off. But let's get back to the PSD2 rules. This means that these parties, including those American tech parties, must be licensed and supervised. Both banks and fintech start-ups and large technology companies therefore have to comply not only with PSD2, but also with our Dutch GDPR. They are also subject to the supervision of the Personal Data Authority. I do not know whether this reassures Mr Alkaya completely, but the AP is also able to impose high fines in the event of infringements. Again no guarantee, but I do think a lot of steps in the right direction. Mr. Chairman. A few Members have asked more philosophical or fundamental questions. Mr Snels asked what PSD2 means for the fundamental vision of long-term payments. I think he sees very well, and we all see that, that the banking sector is still undergoing fundamental changes and I hope that improvements will be made in this respect. It's really gonna be different. When preparing for this debate, I was reminded of the time when I went to the supermarket with one of my parents as a little boy. Then a book of checks was taken out of one wallet and a bank card with the signature from the other. They were then compared to each other. Then you could write a check. Then you got a pin, but you could only do that at the bank. Then you looked around the corner to see if nobody was waiting for you. And now, it's really true, the majority, including the seniors in the Netherlands, are using online payment services. There are still major changes ahead of us on that point. The key to this is always to take advantage of the innovation and the enormous benefits it offers to consumers, but to remain very focused on what consumers want: privacy. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr. Sneller asked which judge you should go to in case of fraud or abuse. He cited a situation with the Maltese judge and I thought he said that a Maltese or perhaps a Malaysian provider. I got all kinds of flashbacks from an extremely complicated exam of international law that I've ever done, where all kinds of that kind of casuism came up. But there's also part of the answer, I think. It really depends on what exactly happened. In the event of unlawful action by the payment service provider, the court of the country in which the damage occurs or may arise shall also have jurisdiction. Depending on the circumstances, that could very well be the land of the doomed. In the event of an infringement of the GDPR resulting in damage, the GDPR also provides, in principle, the possibility to initiate proceedings in the country of habitual residence of the injured party. Then I am also at the absolute depth of my knowledge of international law. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer's question went a long way in the same direction. He was wondering: what are the powers of De Nederlandsche Bank if it is found that there is insufficient supervision in a Member State? That is also an important point. A payment service provider established in another Member State providing payment services in the Netherlands is therefore also subject to the supervision of the competent authority of the home Member State. If the company does not meet the requirements of PSD2, DNB can also take precautions in emergency situations. In that case, DNB could also decide that the company simply cannot conclude new agreements in the Netherlands. DNB could also go to EBA and request assistance from EBA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u100	I know about the EBA. Then you go to EBA and they say, "You have to do better," and then you come back six months later and they have to do better. I can hardly see that going so well, although it works theoretically. But you're sure you can do the first one? Can De Nederlandsche Bank simply intervene and maintain as if it is based in the Netherlands, if they think: that route through EBA takes us too long and that is not going to be good?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u101	Yes. As far as completeness and honesty are concerned, I would like to say that, of course, this is something that needs to be done. That must be on the radar screen of DNB and there will undoubtedly be a route ahead of warnings and contact etc. But this is possible. I also think Mr Nijboer might be a little too sceptical about the EBA route. Given that this is also a matter of European legislation, I myself would hope that EBA could act more effectively in the long term, if we are further on this whole palette, because I understand what he thinks of the current practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u102	The latter is certainly so. It could be more effective. We've been through it with Iceland. That was the core of what a supervisor does. Managing savings accounts is really the core of a central bank. And let us be: this is really innovation; this is new. Many central banks in Europe have barely begun to do this. And they're going to give those permits in those countries, because they want people, of course... So the care comes from somewhere. We have also seen in the Netherlands that things can go wrong, and with a country like Iceland, which was also known for its supervision of the financial sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u103	Absolutely. It could be that Mr Nijboer and I will once again speak about this case. But he's absolutely right about this. He mentioned in his first term a few examples of central banks that he suspects they have a lot of other things to do; let me put it this way. That's right. That's the freaking thing. I wouldn't want to make a complete comparison with that Icelandic case, but at that time it certainly seemed as if the Icelandic central bank should have had all the time and opportunity to supervise. So I can't give you a guarantee. But that is why I find the two-stage system satisfactory, because the Dutch Bank can do something, and EBA can also do something. So that is both in the event that there is insufficient supervision in the other Member State; let us also be clear about that. Because, of course, there are also a lot of Member States where one can assume that there is capacity and quality of supervision. Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels asked about the AFM and the concerns. Of course, this has also been in contact with the AFM. Have the concerns been completely removed? No. That seems too strong to me. I have understood by now that the concerns of the AFM are certainly not about the implementation in the Netherlands. They are about the European law, not about the implementation law that is before us. Mr. Chairman. Mr Sneller asked if I was willing to discuss the diversity of the market, new monopolies and the existing market power of Big Tech proactively with the ACM and the special digi team. Mr Sneller, of course, realises that, following the government agreement, the ACM has been able to expand the capacity of the digital team, precisely to monitor markets in which data plays an important role. More specifically, the AFM will closely monitor market developments resulting from PSD2 in its role as a regulator of the Competition Act. I trust, quite frankly, that the ACM has sufficient attention for this. But I am, of course, willing to monitor the diversity of payment services and the emergence of monopolies that concern, and I do see Big Tech's market power with or without the help of the ACM. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer asked: why not a reliability standard? It is good to say that in the Netherlands the Oversight Scheme applies to payments. It contains safety and availability standards. All players who have a large share in the processing of payment transactions are covered by that scheme. This also applies to large new players who apply for a licence in the Netherlands and meet that limit. That's the legal framework. Mr. Chairman. I come now to the block of surfing, and with that to Mr Van Dijck, who perhaps expressed his surprise in favour of a European solution: it must be regulated in the same way throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u104	Mr. Van Dijck already has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u105	I'll have it before he starts surfing. I am actually a little shocked by the Minister's remark that tying is not excluded. So, in other words, providers can come up and say: listen, I'll give you €1,000, but you'll have to release your payment details for a while. Whether Apple Pay says: If you still want to buy apps from me in the future, you have to give your payment details and do so through Apple Pay. So that's all possible. I think the whole of the Netherlands will hand in his payment details within no time. So that wasn't scorched shut. I wonder if the Minister is aware of that danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u106	I would like to keep some distance from Mr Van Dijck's summary of what I said in the direction of Mr Ronnes. I started by saying to him that there must be a basis for the processing of personal data, even in the case of free services. I have recognised that the extent to which it is desirable to pay with the provision of personal data, the Chamber and I, as well as the EDPS, are critical in relation to the fundamental question. Because that's something you shouldn't want. At the same time, it is true in the Netherlands that it is up to the Dutch Data Protection Authority and ultimately the court to determine the conditions under which such actions are possible. I can draw the attention of the Dutch Data Protection Authority once again to this. But there are more examples of this kind that Mr Van Dijck and I may find undesirable, in which people who are financially perhaps in a weak position are offered attractive things. So I see this problem more broadly. I am very willing, even after this additional encouragement by Mr Van Dijck, to include this explicitly. But that's how it's gonna have to be, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u107	I think it's just like the cookies: we keep pushing it away to continue where we want to surf. I think that in the future those vulnerable groups will indeed be tempted to throw their whole and keep on the streets for a nice offer or a nice discount, or that it will become a blackmail agent, so you can't go on, so you can't buy any more apps except with Apple Pay. I also recommend the Minister to look at Alipay and what happens to Alibaba in China, with 1 billion users. People don't even dare to buy paracetamol from a pharmacy anymore, because they get a report from their employer right away: you don't think you can call in sick, do you? In other words, they're putting together a whole social network there based on Alibaba and Alipay. I hope the minister doesn't want to go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u108	No. I must say that I do not know the example of the paracetamol and the employer in China, but I do agree with Mr Van Dijck that we obviously do not want such a situation. Can I guarantee that this will not happen under any circumstances? No, of course not. This is really a new situation, with new legislation, in which we try to think through how we can protect the customer as best we can. How do we ensure that citizens' privacy is guaranteed? I think that's what we're all after. But we will also find out in practice whether what we have now built in guarantees is sufficient. So you can be sure that this point is very clearly on the retina of the Dutch Data Protection Authority and of DNB. I am going to speak to them very strongly in connection with this debate, but of course they also have these issues in mind very clearly. So they will really look through this lens at the problem. However, it may well be that, in the case of a mid-term evaluation by DNB or in the case of a larger evaluation, we can see that we have to make even harder or higher demands on this particular point. That can't be ruled out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u109	Just a few moments ago we were talking about the five-year evaluation period: should it be shortened? This is one of those points where we want to remain firmly committed from our controlling role: how is this developing? Could it be a suggestion that the Minister, with the supervisor and other interested parties, is considering whether this part can be specifically reflected in the Annual Report of the Social Consultation on Payments? Then we in the Chamber will also have a moment when we will be taken into account in how it develops, and the first experiences will be visible next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u110	I understand the suggestion and I also think it wise to use regular systematics. So that might help, but I would like to go through this point with DNB first. I can imagine that they say: Minister, you were late in submitting this proposal and it had to be done by both Chambers of the States-General; so the first time this report was coming out, it really doesn't make any sense anymore. So I don't want to overpromise. I really want to know if that is an appropriate instrument. But let me put the suggestion on the list, because it could very well be that it can find a place there. Mr. Chairman. I had come to surfing and Europe's call to regulate the same in all countries, which Mr Van Dijck could not resist. Look, of course you can decide to go for the whole ban, but we don't have that in the Netherlands either. It is precisely the partial ban that ensures that you retain the incentive for consumers to choose. In the case of a complete ban, the cost of expensive means of payment is likely to simply be reflected in product prices. Let's just be real about that. In this way, therefore, we are promoting a wider range of means of payment. It also fits well with the Dutch payment landscape, as it is so beautifully called, that is already relatively cheap and efficient. That's what several speakers said. After some wigs and roads we have chosen this route. Mr. Chairman. Mr Sneller asked how we ensured that the transfer to the customer is not implied through the prices. Of course, it is likely that retailers will pass on the costs as a result of the partial ban. My guess is that they already do that in many cases now, but sometimes on a vending machine or cash register you also have to pay extra if you use a specific means of payment. I think we all recognize that. I always have the impression that this, although it is a very small amount, if nudging already does a lot in the choice. That is precisely why you should not go for a total ban. Mr.Sneller also asked how to ensure clarity for customers and for shopkeepers, as far as possible before the checkout. This is clear in advance for a number of credit cards. I do not know if these are credit cards that Mr Sneller and I use mostly, but those who have entered into the contract with the credit card company know what rules apply there. For a number of smaller credit card companies, and therefore those credit cards, it may be unclear whether or not they are covered. For these credit cards, good information, also by shopkeepers, is again important. That's the reason for the signs. I can see this problem, so this should also be on the evaluation list. I would like to add one more thing, Mr President. It is a problem or a situation that arises particularly in the case of credit card payments. There are increasingly companies in the Netherlands where you can no longer pay with cash. What Mr Nijboer says is absolutely true. You never pay anything extra for those pins in the Netherlands. That's encrypted in what you're paying for having that bank card and that account. That is by far the most widely used payment method in the Netherlands. Mr Van der Linde asked about payment rates and how I look at the fear that the rates will be increased, including in the category of surcharging. I think I said most of it. I really expect that the increase in these expensive credit cards will be very limited in a country like the Netherlands. We are really, even if you look at Europeanism, addicted to pins, and that is what I mean positively. This doesn't give you much of the misery you have with credit cards, like buying on credit. A debit card is just a debit card, even though it is regularly with a limit below zero. With regard to the fear of increasing costs, I understand his question, but I am not concerned about that. Then I have a few other things in the category and then I come to the amendments. Mr Ronnes asked for the risk of €50, except for the debit card. This risk applies to all unauthorised payment transactions resulting from a lost, stolen or unlawfully used payment instrument. These are all the instruments and procedures to execute a payment transaction, such as a debit card, a credit card, but also codes for internet banking. For clarity, the customer does not have to bear any loss at all, if the loss was caused, for example, by the bank employee, or if the customer could not be aware of the loss at all. Mr Nijboer also asked questions in the same direction. Everyone in the Chamber likes the reduction to €50, but the question that hangs in the air is whether you should not go to zero. Honestly, there's something to be said for that. What are we in between? On the one hand, you don't want people to have to pay if they can't actually do anything about it. On the other hand, the American proverb is: what comes for free has little meaning. I don't think there are a lot of people who are particularly sloppy with their bank card, but there is also a certain incentive that you have to pay for it. I believe that there is an amendment tabled by Mr Nijboer on this point, so Mr President, you feel the two arguments I have to make. I would like to await that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u111	Mr. Nijboer has come to tell us that this has just been distributed or he is going into it in substance. Mr. Nijboer, an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u112	These are, of course, relevant arguments. It's not black and white either. I do not hear the Minister say that it is inadmissible and that he will not see it if the Chamber accepts it. It doesn't lend itself to that either. It is true that people who have this stuff and have to ask for money back already have trouble with it. You don't do that for fun. You have to ask for money back; you have to go somewhere and you have to see if you get it, so you're insecure about that. It's all guaranteed, but you have to see that again. So you can also say that this nuisance in that process, that hassle is actually already the price you have to pay. So why does it have to cover 50 euros? That's how you could see the price.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u113	I think Mr Nijboer speaks from the point of view of practice. In any case, it is a practice I know myself, but let me not mix the personal with the political. I'm waiting for his amendment. Another important and important point is the point I have already mentioned in a positive way, namely Mr Snels's wish to evaluate. I very much agree with that at all. I have often used the term terra incognita on this type of topic in this Chamber. Of course, the same applies here. It is a development that I think we embrace almost all but with great questions about privacy. For this privacy we come up with a whole bowl of guarantees but if they are good enough, the practice will have to teach us. So I'm very much in favour of an evaluation. In advance, I am also in favour of Mr Snels' amendment. I'm not against shortening the period either. Of course, the Commission is going to evaluate it earlier. At the same time, it does not seem to me to be very useful to evaluate even earlier than 2021. I actually hope that I have completed the treatment for 2019. So there won't be that much time left. My strong suspicion is that I will also test that with the AP and DNB............................................................................................................................................................................................ This is where experience is gained with market players. One can then also talk to market players. So my intuition is ""but I'll check it out" "that DNB doesn't need those three years at all to evaluate in its entirety but that will really apply "'learning by doing." Mr Nijboer also asked about the uncertainties of the copies. I would almost say 'don't open my mouth', because the number of copies I've looked at that day I thought I didn't buy or did anything but behind a vague e.g. a very decent restaurant, is quite a lot. So I see what he means, but I don't see what I can do with it, other than to bring this up in social dialogue payments. This is something that I have also noticed and that is also what lies behind Mr Nijboer's question. Ten years ago, I never had that experience. So the answer intrigues me. So I'm gonna put it on the list for that meeting. I now come to the amendments. I shall begin with Mr Alkaya's amendment to item No 9. Again, it is not black and white and I would like to outline the two positions. The amendment is about a front-end procedure. In principle, I am always very much in favour of giving the Chamber the opportunity to judge. So that speaks for such a suspension procedure. The disadvantage is that such a suspension procedure will take time and therefore lead to further delays, as some Members of the Chamber have rightly pointed out. It is therefore a balance between the concerns about guaranteeing privacy and being able to read back all this in a very specific way and the delay. I am inclined to think that we are doing this extremely carefully now, that we have also been helped with an evaluation and that we cannot now get all the assurances we might want. So I myself am inclined to believe that we have taken sufficient care and that we can now proceed to some extra speed. So that argues against the amendment, but I would like to leave it to the Chamber anyway, because I think that the Chamber itself thinks that such a suspension procedure is a good means. Mr. Chairman. I am therefore in favour of Mr Alkaya's amendments to the documents. 13, 14 and 15 on privacy. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. That cannot be other than the resultant outcome of this debate, because these amendments lay down detailed rules, and I think I have as good as that indicated what I think I can fix in consultation and in monitoring and so on. But given full harmonisation, I cannot change the law and the bill. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the amendment to item No. 16, also from SP, on the obligation for the payment service provider to provide the customer with an annual overview. It cannot be a surprise, but that too is contrary to European law and I must therefore be discouraged. Of course, I have already promised Mr Alkaya that I will at least discuss what is possible for the group that is not banking online, as far as it is practical.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u114	I think we have exchanged enough about this, but I do want to correct one thing: it is not just about the people who are not banking online. So it is not a paper review or anything like that, but it is a matter of being proactively sent an overview, without having to think about it and without having to take any active action on it. You can do that online.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u115	Yes, I agree with Mr. Alkaya, but I said earlier that the anchor I want to lie down for is exactly that dashboard. The question to myself and to all of us is then: if I have arranged that dashboard, which group could still run the risk of not having such an overview? Then I suspect, but that too is of course for verification and for discussion with the AP and DNB, that it will be the small group that simply does not bank online. So I don't want to blame Mr Alkaya for just throwing it online. It's more that I myself think that the other practical solution for online could be relatively easy to find, so I'm worried about the group that doesn't bank online. And we know, by the way, that this group is at least one member of the cabinet. I am therefore in favour of Amendment No 2. 17 by Mr Snels on the review after five years. I have even said 'faster', so I can accept that amendment in such a way that I might even adopt it in a modified and strengthened form. Mr Van Dijck and I, of course, had an exchange of views on surcharging. His amendment to item No. 18 I must reject for reasons that we exchanged earlier. Mr President, I think I have had all the amendments. I see you're in conclave?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u116	Yes, I am just looking at what should happen if an amendment is proposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u117	Then let me relieve you of that legal dilemma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u118	You're in favour of it, and you're judging Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u119	That is exactly the wording I was looking for, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u120	Exactly. That's what we thought. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u121	In my view, then, I answered the questions and provided a response to the amendments. In doing so, I have completed my first reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u122	Thank you, Minister. I don't see any members rushing to the interrupting microphone now either. This means that we are immediately moving on to the second term of office. I would like to put forward Mr Ronnes for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u123	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I hesitated for a moment to table a motion on tying with a request for a more formal recording of its monitoring. The Minister has made a commitment to take a firm look at this. I would ask him to look at the next option. Perhaps something could come up in that annual report of the Social Dialogue Payment transactions, which will take us as a Chamber into account in how PSD2 is going to develop this new directive. So much for tying. Another point is the understanding of consents, which is actually a common thread in the debate tonight. That is why I have tabled a motion with a number of others, which the Minister and others have tabled. calls on the government to encourage banks to provide consumers with an overview. I'll read the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that consumers may authorise the sharing of their financial data;]] [[Whereas consumers keep ownership of such data at all times;]] [[Whereas the sharing of financial data with third parties is sensitive and that understanding of which data someone has shared with whom is of great importance;]] [[Whereas an overview in the internet environment or in the banking app is the most appropriate means of achieving this;]] [[Whereas it is important for consumers to be able to withdraw the consent they have given to a third party immediately on the basis of the GDPR;]] [[considers that the development of a readily accessible overview of consent given by banks can be promoted if the Minister of Finance recognises its importance and encourages banks to do so;]] [[calls on the government to encourage banks to provide consumers with an overview of all parties authorised (including historical data) for access to the personal data,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ronnes, Mr Sneller, Mr Bruins and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34813-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u124	Then there's one more thing hanging over the market. That was also the case in the previous written reply. Through the President, I would like to thank the Minister for the exceptionally good answer he has given in preparing this legislation, but there is still one question that remains: what about this express consent? In what way will the supervisor approve whether or not it meets the requirements? Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that consumers must give explicit consent when a payment service provider requests access to the account details;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to develop in practice exactly how to give explicit consent;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to avoid the risk of confusion between consumers as to whether or not to give express consent;]] [[calls on the Minister to enter very quickly into consultation with the supervisors in order to clarify when a consumer has given "express consent" in order to avoid as much as possible that consumers unduly authorise the sharing of their account information,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ronnes and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34813-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u126	Thank you, Mr. Ronnes. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber will be Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u127	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his first-term answers. I believe that we have had a good and full debate and that we have clearly highlighted the tension in this dossier. On the one hand, we have great opportunities, on the other hand, we are facing an unclear time with all these challenges. That means we have big questions about privacy and security. With everything we know now, I think there's a bill that settles it right. I insist that regular maintenance is important for that. So I share with my colleagues the concerns about privacy and the market power of large technological companies, but I do not share the pessimism. I am confident that the Minister is at the top of these developments. I therefore do not think it is a good idea to take away opportunities from consumers and the Dutch because of these risks. We really need to enjoy everything that comes our way. I have a general question for the Minister. We talked about those fintech companies that are now swarming around the big banks in some kind of business ecosystem. Does the Minister have any plans to further accommodate these fintechs, completely separate from PSD2, or does he leave it entirely to the Minister of Economic Affairs? I believe that these companies deserve a great deal of attention and support. I would find it interesting to hear from the Minister how he stands in that. I just wanted to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u128	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linde. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive answer. As Mr Ronnes said, it was already quite extensive in the written preparation of 143 questions. I was pleased that the Minister was real about the risks that there are, for example about sharing that information from third parties and that you simply can't make sure. So I think it is a good thing, as the Minister said, that the supervisors are just focused on that and continue to steer it. Then there were a number of points where the difference between paper and practice, theory and reality emerged. The minister's gonna work on that. I will briefly mention them: giving explicit consent and conscious consent, but also the tying and advertising model for vulnerable groups. They are all on the Minister's shopping list/ agenda, as well as the market power in that payment market. That doesn't just apply to the ACM. I am pleased that the Minister will pay attention to this, but I have also signed a motion that will be tabled by GroenLinks in order to continue to do so at European level. And then indeed the question about a duped by a Malaysian company that is licensed in Malta. Can that also be brought before a Dutch judge? I find this very pleasant, because I think it is right: we are suggesting that everything is well regulated and that consumers can get their rights anywhere, which will not always prove to be easy in practice. I therefore welcome the Minister's knowledge of international law. Then I think it is right that we in the Chamber should also agree when we get a feedback from the Minister's first talks with the supervisors. I do not think that much depends on it before the vote. I have also heard in the first period from many other groups that they mainly see the opportunities of PSD2 and that they look at it positively. However, we do want to ensure that these conditions are met and it is important to be able to include this when we discuss the first annual report on social consultation for payment transactions later this year or early next year. And then I'd like to hear from the Minister about the history of my account five years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u130	Thank you very much, Mr Sneller. We're going to the next speaker. That's Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u131	Mr. Chairman. I would like to join the previous speakers in thanking the Minister for his comprehensive and thorough reply and for the thorough written preparation of the Ministry. It's important legislation. Even if no one's in the stands, there's a lot at stake. We do not yet know exactly what is going to happen as a result of this legislation. It is good that the Minister sees both the opportunities and the concerns that there are in this Chamber. The amendment states: within five years. So if it's within three years, that's totally fine. That is ultimately up to the Minister. The Minister knows me. There is hardly any debate going by, or he will still be given an assignment when he goes back to Brussels. It is about the interconnection of the banking sector, the financial sector and the tech sector. There are concerns about this, not only in the Chamber but also in the Minister himself. We do not know exactly what PSD2 is going to mean for the market power and the market conditions that are going to arise. We can't look into the future, but it's an important item. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas our data and payment data are an increasing power factor in the economy;]] [[whereas we must avoid disproportionate market conditions;]] [[calls on the Government to hold a more fundamental debate at European level on the power and market conditions of large tech companies and the financial sector;]] [[calls on the Government to promote, at European level, the monitoring of the effects of PSD2 on market conditions in this area so that European action can be taken in a timely manner, if necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Snels, Mr Nijboer, Mr Ronnes, Mr Van der Linde and Mr Sneller.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34813-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u132	Thank you, Mr. Quick. I am going to Mr Van Dijck, who I ask to take a seat behind the cathedral for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u133	Thank you, Mr President. The minister couldn't convince me that this is a good plan, that whole PSD2. I think he's very naive. I think the whole Chamber is very naive to think that citizens' privacy and data are in good hands. This bill has a lot of loose ends, I've noticed. "Couple sale? Yeah, I don't know; that's up to the judge to decide." That kind of thing must be boarded up hard, because I predict to you and to the entire Chamber that people will be tempted to throw their data to the big boys in China, whom I mentioned earlier, Alipay in America, the Googles and the Amazons of this world, that consumers have become victims and that consumers will find their payment details on the streets. The Minister trusts that consumers will consciously consent, but the practice will be that it will happen with gifts and discounts. Mr. Chairman. The security of the bank records is therefore at risk. Even the AFM fears abuse and an increase in cybercrime. A professor of computer security is talking about a strategic blunder. These are people who know it, these are experts. But, yes, the fact is that we are dictating in Brussels and that it is swallowing or suffocating for us. Finally, on my amendment on surcharging. I wonder where the minister gets the guts to bring Visa and Mastercard under the prohibition of surcharging and not PayPal, iDEAL, American Express and Diners Card. All these services must be paid for, except for Visa and Mastercard it must not be passed on to the customer and may be passed on to the customer for the other. I don't think that's a good idea. The Visa and Mastercard lobby will have worked well in Europe. I believe so, but the Minister has not been able to tell me why this discrimination between payment methods is taking place. He may try again in the second term, but I'm not convinced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u134	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijck. Mr. Alkaya, I'll give you the floor for your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u135	Thank you for that, Mr President. There are many questions, concerns, proposals from all parties. Much is still unclear. We're going on an adventure over the back of consumers. The minister himself called it "terra incognita" with fine words. He began his first term by saying that he shares the concerns about privacy and that there are possibilities for additions. He said I'm not gloomy. I thought, "Well, maybe there's something possible after all." In the end, however, we simply have to agree to this implementing law and then the Minister takes all the concerns into further discussions. I think that's the least he can do. Of course, I am pleased with that, but that does not mean that this implementing law is a good law, because much is not allowed by Brussels. Create an overview in which consumers can see which data are shared with whom? I can't. You want to ban tying? I can't. The Minister says Mr Van Dijck already mentioned that the judge is concerned. But the judge and the Personal Data Authority are of course checking against the law, and we are today adopting a law. In that law, we could settle perfectly what is and is not allowed and what the judge could then judge. But Brussels is not allowed to do so, because they decided otherwise three years ago. So I have serious doubts about this law. Of course we must encourage innovation. This is a trade-off. Banks must also be given more competition. We must also reduce the power of the banks, but that can also be done in a different way. I've talked to the Minister about that before. This can also be done through public institutions or, as Sweden does, with the e-Krona. We can also experiment from the government and take public services such as payment traffic more into public hands. We must not allow the experiments and innovations to happen, but we must take more control of them ourselves. In short, the final question: do the benefits and opportunities that all the other parties seem to see, after all the concerns they have expressed, outweigh all the concerns that have been expressed? I'm really wondering. I'm not convinced, either. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u136	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought both the law and the written procedure and the answers to the Chamber today were good and complete. That'll help if you have a law that's comprehensive, that's about privacy and has a lot of technology in it. Then it helps to have a little more faith in such a law, and then you can vote for it. My group was very concerned about the European passport, of course, she still has it. As a regulator elsewhere in Europe I have authorised Malta, Greece and Italy, a company can go ahead here. The question is whether these rules will be properly complied with. The Minister stated in his reply that De Nederlandsche Bank could also act on this issue. I think that's a good thing. I would therefore like to see that happen and that the Minister shares this with De Nederlandsche Bank. He has now shared it with the Chamber, but it also depends on the attitude. You can also say: we have all formally arranged it; the other is competent. The Netherlands Bank will have to act. That is the first point. The second point was its own risk. I'll get some answers to that. The amendment has now been tabled. I can also tell that the Minister does not think it has been poured into concrete and that he knows the frustration himself. If you have to get all your money back, lose things, and what's more, that's a lot of frustration. So why add €50? I would say that the sector is good enough and thinks a lot about itself. I would also like to make an argument about the consumer. So I'm hoping for a positive verdict. Finally, Mr President. I would never say those words myself, but now that the Minister has used them, I say don't open my mouth. You can't figure out what's going on with the money that's been written off from a bank account. I have a supporting motion for that. If the Chamber decides that we no longer want to do so, then the Minister can explicitly raise the issue of payment transactions with those banks in the Social Dialogue. I think we're gonna have to pay for that. Even if you see ING's behaviour again today, I would say that this should be something that they should be able to resolve in the interests of the consumer. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas bank write-offs are not always clearly traceable to a company or transaction, for example when an unknown business name is used;]] [[Whereas this may result in incorrect depreciation going unnoticed or not being corrected;]] [[Whereas this may encourage fraud;]] [[calls on the government to agree with banks that bank write-offs are always clearly traceable to business and transaction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34813-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u138	We often see progress. But I agree with the Minister: in the past you could always control it and now you can't. It's gotta be easy to turn back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u139	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I'm suspending the meeting for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u140	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to check two things very quickly. One thing I have said to Mr Sneller is that I have something to change. I'm talking about the dashboard. What is absolutely true is that you cannot have the bank offering the possibility of moving a slider. At that point, my answer was completely accurate. I have just understood that in theory it could be that the bank makes the reference and that the consumer then ends up there. That might be a practical solution. So I'll put that on my list, too. I understand that this is allowed, provided that the consumer is no longer in the vicinity of the bank. I wanted to tighten that up, because it might offer a mouse hole to settle the thought that Mr Sneller and I both had. I would like to be very specific in that regard. I also say to Mr Sneller immediately that I would very much like to do the feedback of the whole basket of things that I have been given, and I would like to do it as follows. After this debate and after the debate in the First Chamber, but also before, these talks will take place. Then I'll do a total feedback in one go. Then, of course, the dialogue between myself and the institution continues. I'll report to the Chamber on that regularly. I think it would be useful to return the total palette to the Chamber once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u141	My question was indeed about that list, that basket and this minister's mouse holes. I would like to have an overview of all the points that are on that list and in that basket. In fact, I would prefer that before the votes. I started my second term with the remark that this is raging and full of loose ends. I'm a little lost when it comes to what's on those lists and in those baskets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u142	I sincerely believe that Mr Van Dijck is failing in the debate when he says that it is full of fringes. In my view, we are trying to do something here in our full consciousness that is really sensible, balanced and balanced. We all have and see the serious concerns for privacy. We then try to mitigate them as best we can. I would like to promise Mr Van Dijck that I will come up with that list soon. I'm not going to try to recapitulate it here, because that's what three people say right away: you've forgotten half a point. So I think it would be wiser to read back the debate and then make the overall overview. My question to you, Mr President, is when are the votes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u143	Those are scheduled for next Tuesday, so I would like to conclude later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u144	Then I can pledge to Mr Van Dijck that I will ensure that the overview is there. This concerns both the question of what I want to discuss and the question of which point of contact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u145	Mr. Van Dijck, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u146	It's good that it's there for the votes. I was just shocked again when I saw a motion from the coalition stating that the Minister should consult with the supervisors quickly, in order to clarify when a consumer has expressly authorised the release of his data. In other words, it is not even clear when explicit consent is given by a consumer. Those are the fringes and those are the omissions of this law. We say yes to something, but we don't know anything about what.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u147	Really, we all see the fundamental problem. I saw with Mr Van Dijck a very brief moment of joy, but that was soon gone again. He's got the commitment to the list. Really, I'm gonna do this because I see with him and with everyone else that this is innovation. This is a new field of activity. This also contains an element of learning by doing. About the alternative of pretending to stay better by not doing anything about it, I say: that kite unfortunately does not go on. That must really be the conclusion of this debate. I very much agree with Mr Sneller. We are really failing the Dutch consumer and the Dutch citizen. So a gold-plated commitment towards Mr Van Dijk and a correction towards Mr Sneller. That brings me to a point I have to make in the direction of Mr Sneller in those 90 days. His question was actually the mirror image of what I said. He actually said, "What if I wanted to?" Under PSD2, the bank is obliged to provide payment data back up to 90 days after agreement, but PSD2 does not apply to other information. So that's where the distinction lies. I can see exactly what he is saying, but that is another problem that has to do with the eighteen-month period and your desire to go back even further. Mr Van der Linde asked if I have any plans to accommodate fintech. That is, of course, a very relevant question. I would like to agree with him that in the autumn I will come back more in width to an impact on the possibilities of a banking permit light. I think I have already said to Mr Sneller that I will come back to all the points and I think I have also broadly indicated the timing of this. Depending on the speed of treatment in the First Chamber, I'd like to wait or not. I have good hope. Mr. Chairman. Those were the few questions I had left. Then I come back to the dilemma of €50 versus €0. It is a real dilemma that Mr Nijboer is now presenting me with an amendment. It's right between the two things I want to repeat. On the one hand the question of whether that is logical and just, and on the other hand "what comes for free, has little meaning," which also contains some. There is another argument that I would like to mention, and what I think makes us have to lean towards not wanting it. If you remove that incentive, maybe the number of people who lose their ATM card isn't that big, but then those costs will be transferred over the rest. So to pretend this is some kind of free ticket, it seems to me a little short. After some hesitation between judgment Chamber and dissuaded, after the exchange of views, I come with my support to dissuade the judgment. But you will hear my hesitation, Mr President, because it is true: there are things that are much more clasp-and-ready than this particular example. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u148	This still gives Mr Nijboer cause for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u149	To weigh the arguments as precisely as possible: to be honest, I think that the imposition of €50 on people and the administrative actions that this entails in banks may cost even more than that €50. So turning to consumers... I have heard that when people call their energy society twice a year, that society has lost its profits for that year by calling consumers. This is a much harder act. So I don't know how firm the argument that other people pay for that is ultimately going to stick. Then the dilemma will remain and we will see what the Chamber decides.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u150	I didn't make that math. Depending on their efficiency, this may turn out to be different for different banks. Perhaps better or worse than the energy companies Mr Nijboer is in contact with. On the one hand, I am trying to express my sympathy for Mr Nijboer's point, but on the other hand I am also trying to put this argument aside. Moreover, tricky enough, more often in the political arena you have to realize that, no matter how much you want to do things for free, things you do for free also rob the recipient of incentives. Sometimes the recipient robs that even if that is perhaps less the case with a debit card of the joy that one would have felt if one had to pay for something. That's the way man is. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to move on to the motion in part No. 20 by Mr Ronnes and others with the call to banks to provide an accessible overview. There can be no misunderstanding that I am going to leave that motion to the House's judgment. Of course, my enthusiasm lies underneath that. I really think this will help towards vulnerable groups. So I also agree with the importance of having a conversation at all. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 21, by Mr Ronnes and Mr Bruins. It calls for rapid consultation on the definition of "express consent." I would also like to leave it to the House to decide. Again, the Personal Data Authority, in consultation with DNB, should define the precise content of this explicit consent requirement. I would add that this is really not atypical in this type of legislation. I have heard clearly the suggestion of the two proposers. I will therefore leave the motion to judge Chamber. Mr Snels himself indicated that he rarely lets me escape without an assignment, in this case a European mission. I think it is really useful to have this debate in Europe. I think we have managed a lot of additional matters well here in the Netherlands, but that discussion also belongs in Europe. So that's why I want the motion-quick c.s. in piece No. 22 leave to the judgment of the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I shall now come to Mr Nijboer's last motion. 23. I want to agree with him that I can leave that motion of censure Chamber if he wants to amend it. He asks the government to agree with banks that bank statements are always clearly traceable to business and transaction. I cannot leave a motion which asks me to agree to this, to the judgment of the Chamber. I can't promise him that. I've just been very transparent and honest. I have some frustration on this subject. I also really see that this can help consumers. But it ignores the scope of this debate. I don't know the underlying details. That means I like to talk about it, but I don't want to commit to agreeing "clearly traceable to business and transaction" anyway. 'Cause then I promise something that I can't see enough of the consequences. So if Mr Nijboer were prepared to amend his motion on this point, I could also leave it to the House to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u151	I'll adjust her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u152	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u153	Thank you. I would like to conclude by thanking Members for the great deal of attention they have given to the many important sub-topics and the conclusion that we will certainly be discussing many of the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u154	Then I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber. This brings us to the end of this debate. The Minister leaves us with the pressing question of which of his colleagues is not yet online banking, but perhaps that mystery will be resolved at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-04-tweedekamer-11.u155	Vote on this law, the amendments and the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday.
