ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg, on behalf of the CDA, for her questions to the Minister for Justice and Security, on the report that the technology in the 112 control room is lagging behind. I call Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I found out a year ago that if you call 911, you're not automatically found by the emergency services, I was actually really surprised. All kinds of useful apps can always see where you are. I get to hear about where all my friends are every day, and even when I lose my phone, it'll be up in no time. That's kind of weird, actually. I think there are a lot of people, maybe even here today, who think: if I call 911, they will soon know where I am. We regularly see all kinds of television programmes, whether they are reality shows, crimi's or other programs, in which someone calls the police and then hears: stay calm on the phone, we are already on the way! That is very complicated in the Netherlands, I understand. In the meantime, some things are being done, but a year ago I heard about this and then I asked written questions. At that time I was actually a bit reassured; it seemed as if it would all be very soon. But what is my surprise now? It's not really like that! In the meantime, we have already had a very tragic situation in which a lady has hit the water; even then, the emergency services could not find her in time. Perhaps it wouldn't have mattered, but these are always of those extremely poignant situations that make us aware that we need to make sure that we get the reports as soon as possible and know where someone is. Mr. Chairman. Last weekend RTL News also paid attention to this. Very important, because RTL has once again tied the bell. That's why I'm here today, because I actually think it's taking too long. That's why I have questions for the Minister. He has also sent a letter to the Chamber very carefully, but I would simply like to hear it in very normal human language from the Minister. Can he explain what's going on behind the scenes? What's taking so long? When can we finally expect these automatic couplings? And what's that gonna take?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-5.u4	Madam President. Like Mrs Van Toorenburg, I saw the broadcast of RTL News last Saturday about the location of a caller reporting to 112. The starting point of the emergency rooms is to help citizens in need as quickly and effectively as possible. That broadcast also made it clear how important the location is. That is why I sent you a letter yesterday, together with the TNO report on the Advanced Mobile Location system, AML. I would like to emphasise two points in this letter in response to the questions put by Mr Van Toorenburg. First of all: a location determination system is already being used in the emergency rooms, the so-called VIL, Verification Incident Location. I also informed your Chamber about this in March 2017. Based on VIL, the control room can receive accurate information from a caller. That system had already been tested and was easy to implement. Another important point is that VIL based on a general SMS function has a very wide range of all types of mobile phones, and not just from Androids like AML does. Nevertheless, it is known that AML has advantages over VIL. Therefore, AML is introduced as a follow-up step, stating that it is only available on Android for the time being and not on all phones. In order to put this follow-up step right, TNO gave advice. That explains the report. The police are currently actively working to implement the introduction of AML in the Netherlands with the help of the TNO recommendations. Then it's gonna work, at least for Android smartphones. In conclusion, I would like to say the following, to let you know that there has certainly been no idleness in the past year. There are many innovation and change projects within the control room domain. I refer to the renewal of C2000, the merging of emergency rooms, the connection of emergency rooms to national ICT and also the renewal of 112 infrastructure. The latter creates the conditions for a good connection of AML. Regular consultations are held on these matters with the EENA, the European Emergency Number Association. This has also happened in recent times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thank you to the Minister for replying. I hear he's taking it very seriously and he wants it to be quick. Nevertheless, I continue to express my disappointment that it is taking so long. I asked written questions a year ago and heard that the police had been working on it for two years. Thirteen countries around us have just arranged it neatly. I heard it cost $100,000 to make things right. Can the Minister therefore ensure that it is done very quickly? I think we have a responsibility to each other not only to make it happen for Android phones, but also for other phones. So now it seems like you're getting a text message and having to agree on a link. I see someone, maybe someone older, panicking, calling 911, getting a text and doing an act. I don't think that's gonna win this war. So I really want us to make sure that other providers, like Apple, are hooked up. Perhaps we can do that in a European context, because other countries have the same need, I hear the Minister say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-5.u6	It is difficult to compare it with other countries, because the control room function is different in each country or at least in many countries, with different organisations and systems. As I wrote to the Chamber yesterday, the police give great priority to getting that system properly implemented this year with the help of TNO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-5.u7	I think it is a good thing that people at least now realise that we do not have the best of the system, but that the Minister is doing everything he can to ensure that it is done quickly. I can't help but encourage him, because they always say it themselves: if you're in need, it really counts every second.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-5.u9	We have heard the Minister speak about the system for Verification Incident Location, the VIL system. Then the caller does get a text and he has to activate something himself. If your car hits the water and your head goes under, I think that's the last thing you think about, so that's just too little. The TNO report to which the Minister refers already contains important conditions, which need to be realised. Let me highlight one: the supporting IT systems and control rooms must be suitable to receive location information based on that correct system, the AML. Then there are three recommendations. I can help the Minister: it is on page 28 of the TNO report. Can the Minister confirm that this is going to start?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-5.u10	As I just said, the police, under the guidance of TNO, are currently following these recommendations in such a way that implementation is to take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mrs. Kuik, your colleague Ploumen has already asked all the questions, so you are no longer allowed to interrupt. Mr. Van Raak, you can't just give away your turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-5.u12	Advanced Mobile Location: I love it, but is it true that there are still areas in the Netherlands where you can't call 112 at all, like the east of Groningen? And if you do get in touch, isn't it true that there aren't always times when the police and other paramedics arrive? Again, I love Advanced Mobile Location, but it doesn't help if you can't call and if people don't make it on time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-5.u13	I'm prepared to look into that for you and come back to it in a letter. I think that is possible for everyone in the Netherlands, but I am now saying 'in my opinion', because I am not the Minister for Telecommunications. I'll find out for you and I'll get back to you on that soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-23-tweedekamer-5.u14	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. We're about to vote.
