ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u1	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to Members for the many questions and comments. We're talking today about the Spring Note. That is, as Members know, the first progress report on the implementation of the national budget for 2018. In doing so, this spring note provides an interim overview of the windfalls and changes in the state budget. It is, as Members know, also the first financial year of the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. A few very brief remarks. I am not going to go into the amendments relating to the coming year, which the Chamber will be informed about at Princess Day other than what specific questions have been asked about. I'll take it with me. I would also like to mention that in spring this year the cabinet allocated 34 million extra resources to the Brexit, precisely to work on customs and inspection services. I shall come back to that in more detail in a moment. The cabinet has also allocated an additional 50 million to this sector, and I shall say more about it later too for LNV and structural money. Mr. Chairman. I wanted to build it this way. I'd like to start with block one, on the economic picture. Next, block 2 on fiscal policy. Next, block 3 comes over the gas, which I will subdivide again into the different subs. Block 4 is other. Mr. Chairman. It is precisely because of transparency that I want to make one more prealabel point, which is about the inheritance and gift tax. We have tried to answer the questions as accurately as possible when they have been asked. So that's what happened a few weeks ago. Last night, the Secretary of State and I participated again in and how we are working with man and power on that problem and that we are looking at problems again. The Secretary of State is full of coming up with a plan. He will inform the Chamber about this before tomorrow's votes. I would like to mention this precisely because I have also answered questions from Members in the documents accompanying this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u3	I'm a little surprised by this. You're gonna weigh up a spring note you're gonna talk about. One of the points I actually skipped is about fiscal capacity. I asked questions about that in the Navy's note. I have also asked questions through the actual round of questions. In the light of the answers, I decided not to pick up on this point. Now I understand that there will be more lyrics and explanations tomorrow. Then I hope that we really have a letter for tonight so that we can prepare ourselves well for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u4	I am the first to agree with Mr Slootweg and I think the whole Chamber will agree that this is extremely unfortunate. Just for the record, it's being worked with man and power. Yesterday at the end of the afternoon it became clear that there is a problem in the reporting. Then the Secretary of State and I said that we want the bottom stone above. We want to know what's going on and how we're going to solve the problem. These and genes have been working on this until the middle of the night. We have received a first insight this morning for this debate. At that time we also agreed that the Chamber should be informed as soon as possible. I want to be as transparent as possible. The Secretary of State will arrange a letter. People will also be listening to this debate, but I will insist on doing so tonight. But for him and for me, it was clear that at the first possible moment, the Chamber will be informed of this as soon as the facts are clear. I don't have much more information either. We'll do everything we can to get that information to the Chamber as soon as possible. I just want to be transparent about how the cards are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u5	Well, let's see the timeline. Am I to understand that there was a discovery yesterday afternoon and we're hearing this now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u6	Yes. I am completely transparent about what happened. Yesterday afternoon there was a session I wanted to join. This is, of course, typically a subject for the Tax Administration, but I also wanted to know this because this issue has potential budgetary implications. That is why I have not only been there myself, but also people from the Tax Administration and from the core department. At that time it was found that it is very likely that we are not getting to the planning stage, which would be based on an acceleration of the last few months. Then the Secretary of State and I said that the bottom stone should be on top. If it turns out that we're behind schedule, then we need a contingency plan because we need to solve this problem this year. The Secretary of State has also reported that to your Chamber. So there's been a first strike, literally halfway through this night. I have heard a few words about this before the debate, but that was literally a 15-minute meeting. They're working on it now. One thing is clear: we want to get it to the Chamber in full speed. So I can't make it any better, but I just want to be transparent to the Chamber about how the cards are, precisely because the position of two or three weeks ago, when we started the questions, was, of course, still different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u7	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u8	Yeah, my last question. Is this gonna be in the letter? I assume that this also has implications for the estimates. One of the reasons why I did not pay so much attention here is that in the Spring Paper there were actually more positive estimates for the inheritance and gift tax. Can we also expect an adjustment to be made? What that does have, then, is budgetary implications.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u9	If we were to be sure that this was the case, it would obviously have to be in the letter. The state of the information I had this morning before the debate is that we need to scale up to achieve the original speed and do what has been promised to the Chamber, namely to solve the problem of the previous calendar year in this calendar year. My latest state of the art is that we are doing everything we can to do it, but I really have to wait and see the Secretary of State's letter on that. Because, as the Chamber will hopefully understand, since this morning's conversation, which lasted until 9.15 a.m., I have no longer had any contact with the Ministry on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u10	It is right that the Minister should report this immediately, but it is very vague what he says. He had a meeting last night and he was informed this morning, and we now have the debate on the Spring Note. I would therefore like him to inform the Chamber either orally or before the beginning of the second term of the Chamber. How else can we judge this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u11	I'm maximum transparency. I thought it wise for the Secretary of State to come forward with a letter as soon as possible, but at least before tomorrow's votes. I don't know if there's much more I can do. I am also literally unaware of the state of play with regard to that letter. So I will give you all the information I have at the moment, which has to do with the delay in the accelerated planning. I would also point out that there could be budgetary consequences, but that we are going to do everything we can to prevent them. But I can't share any more information right now. I was informed about this again this morning at 9.15 a.m. I moved into this house at 10:15. There was no earlier time, I think reasonable enough, to inform the Chamber about this, no matter how annoying that communication may be. I naturally agree with the Members on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u12	But this is about 400 or 500 million. In that order of magnitude, last year was a setback. It's about big money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u13	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u14	So it matters whether we have this setback before the summer or not. The Chamber should be able to give an opinion on that. We have to vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u15	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u16	The debate will be over soon. I would therefore ask the Minister to inform us orally, if the letter cannot arrive in time, of what is going on. 'The planning is behind schedule and it may have budgetary implications' is not really something that we in the Chamber can do with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u17	But in all precision and, by the way, in all intents and purposes: I cannot give an estimate now, other than what I have just said about the budgetary consequences, because it was not clear at 9.15 a.m. this morning. I've asked the Ministry to make every effort to get that letter to the Chamber tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u18	This morning at 9:15, you had the last meeting. It's 2:30 now. Why has it not been reported in the meantime or before the start of the debate: we have not yet fully mapped it out, but there is probably another body in the closet at the heir and gift tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u19	It seemed prudent and pure to me to make it absolutely clear to the Chamber at the first moment that I was going to open my mouth. That's one. Secondly, there is still a lot of work to be done. That was also the announcement this morning: we have been working until 1.30 p.m. and we think it looks more or less like this, but we also need time. Proper and careful information also implies that the information that is then provided is correct. And for the record, Mrs Leijten will be able to imagine that yesterday the Secretary of State and I were extremely unpleasantly surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u20	I believe that. It is only two or three weeks since we had a big debate here on how information is being provided and whether we can rely on the information being provided when it is known. If the Secretary of State and the Minister can't even rely on it, we have a very serious problem. What I find a little difficult is that we have had the first term of office. We can judge in that. What was the case with Mr Slootweg of the CDA, who said 'I let the inheritance tax run for a while', also applies to me. Had it been different, our input, questions or proposals might have been different. Why didn't the Minister or the Secretary of State think, "Wait a minute, it's only two weeks since I had to humbly promise the Chamber that I'd report anything on the way around, so I'm going to report that there's something going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u21	The Secretary of State has indeed promised to do so. Mrs Leijten is right, this is exactly the crux. It is not about information that I have for three weeks, it is information that was discussed yesterday afternoon and which was then found to be incomplete but which alone gives rise to concern. Then there has been work until the middle of the night and there has been a session this morning which makes it clearer that it is probably bad news, but which is also said by the organisation: we need more time to bring out the bottom stone. I'm trying to be maximum transparency here. This means that I have brought this up, perhaps not in the first minute, but in the third minute that I have opened my moment here. If there had been a complete letter from the Ministry, it would probably have been there already. It's just gonna take some time, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u22	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u23	We have not received complete information in recent years. That is what the Secretary of State even said in the debate we had on the Tax Administration. We have received a lot of information, but never correct and never complete enough. I would nevertheless like to meet with the Minister, and through him with the Secretary of State, that in future there will be no waiting until there is a balanced letter and everything is mapped out, but that it will be said immediately: there is a problem and there will be another letter. That's what happened in the tax unit. We heard immediately: there will be a law with retroactive effect, it took a little longer for it to be there, but we knew it immediately. I would like to agree, because the relationship between the Ministry and the Chamber is not as strong as it might seem when it comes to the Tax Office. The Minister says he's giving us clarity here, but he's only giving us more clarity here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u24	The attempt is to clarify and clarify what is happening at the moment. I am giving you the current state of affairs that is known to me at the moment. I'll do the best I can. Mrs Leijten and I agree that this is unfortunate and unfortunately there is also an indication of the state of play. I have not spoken in vain about the Tax Administration as an organization with major complex and persistent problems. Faster to inform the Chamber than after selecting it as well as possible and then even before the answer is complete, I cannot reasonably do so either. I have seized the first possible opportunity here precisely because I know that we are debating it today and precisely because questions have been asked which, with the information that was known at the time, could in any case suggest some degree of progress and also reassurance. So I'm transparent about it, but even before we know exactly how it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u25	I also have a question for the Minister. There will therefore be a letter on the budgetary implications, among other things. He also said: the bottom stone must come up, we are behind schedule, we are still not getting it. Can the Minister promise that the letter will also state why the bottom stone is not above and what is being done about it, not only today but over the next few days, to get that bottom stone completely out of the water and to ensure that in a few months' time it will not be said again that another bottom stone is not above water with new budgetary consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u26	I would also like to turn one thing into what Mr Van Rooijen says. The bottom stone should be above in the first place when it comes to the planning and realization of the planning. We need to be very specific about what we are going to do to ensure that this planning is achieved. If there are budgetary consequences and we already have a view on them, they must also be reported to the Chamber. I am not saying that it is my expectation, but my hope is that we can do a great deal more to ensure that there are no budgetary consequences. I said I jumped out of my skin, of course. Mr Van Rooijen should also know that. I said: listen, I want to know who gets these figures once a day from today, who gets them once a week and who gets them once a month. Because that type of overview is just necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u27	Thank you for that answer, but the thrust of my question is actually the following. If something came up yesterday and we cannot yet say exactly what the problem is and whether it can be resolved quickly, then I think the problem is much deeper. And then tomorrow we will not be much wiser, not even on the budgetary implications, but perhaps a little. How are we gonna get that bottom rock up in the next few weeks? How can we find out as soon as possible whether this is going to be possible at all in the very short term? If the Minister is as surprised as we are, then I do not feel that all this will be as clear and resolved tomorrow. I don't believe that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u28	My expectation is that we will be able to tell the Chamber tomorrow or tonight about the planning and implementation of the planning. That's one. Two. I also expect that we can tell the Chamber what possibilities there are and what is needed to ensure that we can make the initial planning or as much of the initial planning as possible. Three. It can also answer the question of whether it has budgetary implications and, if so, which ones. I am therefore somewhat more reassured about this than Mr Van Rooijen. Of course, what I have great concerns about myself is that it takes so much effort to get the information out of the water. You're obviously wondering if it's a pars pro toto. That is, of course, the real question: is it just the inheritance and gift tax or is there more to it? It is not for nothing that I said in the very first debate I had with the Chamber that the problems are great, complex and persistent, and it will take years for us to resolve them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u29	A final question. The Minister himself is now giving this move. Will the Minister also tell us whether there is any reason to look more broadly at the deeper problem? So wider to the deeper problem. Is he going to keep us informed of that in the next few weeks, during recess? Because in two or three weeks' time he could come to the conclusion that there is even more wrong except in this dossier, and then we really need to know that quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u30	I will put that question to the Secretary of State and, if there is any reason to report on it, ask him to do the same. Because I can just imagine that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u31	I thank the Minister for his intention to inform the Chamber properly and to do so at the first opportunity. I must say that the last answer to Mr Van Rooijen gave me a bit of a shock. Does this mean that there may have been misreports or delays in other areas as well? None of what's going on with the IRS surprises me any more. That is why we have said: reporting needs to be improved and organisation and ICT projects need to be improved. I'm still trying to understand. My question to the Minister is therefore: does this mean that there has been misreported, that there has been an overly florissant presentation of things? Or are the ICT systems not sufficient? Does the Minister have any more information on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u32	First of all, I should like to mention the first point of any surprise. Already in the first debate, but also in every speech I have made since October 2017 towards the Chamber, I said that the problems at the service are large, complex and persistent: do not underestimate them and do not have the illusion that they have been eliminated in a few years, because there is too much going on for that and I have seen too much of what is worrying. I want to repeat that here. There's too much going on that's worrying. The inheritance and gift tax is an indication of this, but that is far from it. I think you can tear it apart in three big pieces. The first aspect relates to IT. Meanwhile we have a reasonable picture of the problems. That helps if you want to tackle the problems, but there's still a lot of work to be done. The second has to do with the organization. And that has to do with course and culture and with all kinds of aspects that have to do with the organisation. The third aspect concerns reporting. This is, of course, also an example of this. Because let's be honest: there seems to be an underlying problem here, but there is also a reporting problem. Because without a reporting problem, someone, including the core department, and of course the Secretary of State, should have known at least a few weeks earlier. I don't know how many weeks before. So it's these three problems. And I say in all honesty in the direction of Mr Azarkan: it is being worked with man and power, but the leak is not yet above.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u33	We have had a lot of different debates and a lot of different AOs on the Tax Administration. I'm really surprised. In the last debate we had, your predecessor, Secretary of State, Mr Wiebes, told us right away that what he had promised to the Chamber was not being complied with, and that the plans that were being made were not being implemented in this way. We drive out of a dead end alley, but we hit a wall once in a while. I am beginning to wonder how, as a parliament, as a Lower House, we should carry out our controlling task. In fact, I am asking the Minister if he can give us a little help, because I do not know anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u34	With all due respect to the questions of the Chamber, but if I am quite honest, I do not think the main problem is the supervisory task of the Chamber, because the Chamber has the information I have within 24 hours. The problem is, of course, an operational problem, and that is on each of the three topics I have just described. That is, in my view, the real problem. If we had, in particular, solved the third problem, the problem of reporting towards the Chamber, so if that is in order, then obviously there is no longer any problem with the provision of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u35	Yes, but I think that's a rather simple statement from the Minister. In my opinion, it is a question of providing information to see if the things that have been agreed will happen. What I'm saying is that the information we get sometimes a day later is actually not accurate anymore, so we can't rely on the information we get. I find that complicated. I understand that there are major problems in the operational implementation of ICT and personnel tasks. I understand that something must be done about this, but in the last year and a half I have not been able to get a grip on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u36	For the record, I understand Mr Azarkan very well when he says that this makes it difficult to assess what is going on, what is going on and to check it. I am just trying to point out that this is not an indication of the willingness of the Secretary of State or of the summit of the Tax Administration to provide that information. I would almost say: on the contrary, because that would also help them. It is an indication of what major problems there are, and then of the insufficient ability to report on these problems at all. That's what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u37	Mr. Chairman. The letter is coming, and we have to wait for it. In my view, it is also clear that we, as a Chamber, should talk to both rulers about this: what is going on here? This is actually strange, because if there could be budgetary implications, we should actually deal with it now in the spring paper. We're having a procedural meeting later. My question is: are we not going to do the second term until tomorrow? Are we going to ask for a reopening of the debate? Are we going to have a general discussion? Before we can make any decisions as a Chamber, I think we should have a little more insight into when the information comes from the Cabinet. The minister said maybe tonight, maybe tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u38	For the sake of precision, I think Mr Van Rooijen was talking about tomorrow and I took it in my mouth. But I'm gonna take a look at the jail now. I have every reason to believe that that letter will be with the Chamber tonight. Maybe I should double-check or repeat that, but it is really the intention to get this letter to the Chamber tonight. I also see now that that is possible. So I can be clear about that, Mr President. As far as the Spring note is concerned, it was, of course, drawn up in the spring. Now we have really started the summer. I would just like to point out that it was from a few months ago and then we didn't have this indication in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u39	Thanks for the answer. So we'll get that letter tonight. Then I think that as a finance committee we should decide how we will proceed with this: in a third period or in a general consultation. It seems to me that this should be done tomorrow or as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u40	That is obviously up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u41	I note that there are now people at the interrupting microphone that we've already had in this circle, so we're probably going to do a repeat of it. Mr Van Rooijen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u42	Correct of you to say that, Mr. Chairman. But I just heard the Minister say "that was new," and I appreciate that openness "that he should have known about this a few weeks ago." This had not been demonstrated by its previous comments. I appreciate that openness, but this means that there is indeed something very deep and wide wrong. He's now saying he should have known about this a few weeks earlier. I can see why he jumped out of his skin. A few weeks earlier; that is already at the time of our debate with the Secretary of State three weeks ago! I'm just pointing that out. I appreciate the openness, but perhaps the Minister can take this signal, which we both share, into another letter. So it's obviously even deeper, because it should have been on the table weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u43	Mr Van Rooijen can assume that I do not turn my heart into a murder pit on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u44	Mr. Slootweg, one last remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u45	I would also like to avoid that we will receive a letter in a moment, which will make us very worried again tomorrow. Since we have had information before, say the actual questions in the Spring Note, I would like a letter with the state of play regarding the donation and inheritance tax. That letter should address the question of which of the reported facts of the past few months are correct or incorrect. I hope that will be addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u46	I understand that question. I think that at the time when Mr Slootweg says those words, they are almost immediately known to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u47	Mrs Leijten, I would also like to make one comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u48	That was exactly my question. Have any questions been answered in recent times about the six-month report during the debate we had on the Tax Administration and Spring Note, which can be seen on the inheritance and gift tax, but also on other parts of the Tax Administration that are not correct on closer inspection? Just clean it up in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u49	That's exactly what I'm trying to do here. We're going to include everything that's needed in that letter. A final remark in the direction of Mr Van Rooijen: yes, that is right, primarily the Secretary of State and only secondary me. If you see that you are lagging behind, as soon as possible, if not within a week, on such a sensitive subject then at least one and a half months, namely after the end of a certain month, let's say a period of six to seven weeks after the time when it clearly does not go well enough to find out that there is a problem with a sensitive subject and what the action is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u50	Well, the head's off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u51	Mr President, you can say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u52	He's still on it, says Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u53	Mr. Chairman. This was only the preliminary point, so let me remind you of the blocks in which I thought I would cut this debate. I will start with the economic picture, then second with budgetary policy, third with the gas, which I will then go back to cutting, and fourth with the category other than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u54	Yes, may I just say that I would like to do the interruptions in three, because I think that will improve the quality of the debate. But I do keep track of the number of interruptions and perhaps at some point I will say: Mrs Leijten, you are out of your interruptions. I'm just mentioning a completely random name. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u55	Thank you, Mr President. So let me start with the economic picture. That economic picture looks very good in many respects. It looks very good, but there are also clouds on the horizon, such as Brexit, a growing trade war and geopolitical tensions. They could have great consequences, precisely because I have exchanged them with the Chamber and because the Dutch economy is very open but also very volatile. If the world is doing well, then our economy is doing very well, but vice versa is unfortunately often also true. Mrs De Vries asked how the new DNB estimate with a low growth for 2018 is going to be right there at my point: "The growth estimate in the spring note is right there." A very understandable question. The Spring Note is based on the economic picture from the Central Economic Plan of the CPB. That was a little bit more positive than DNB's latest estimate and by the way, that's important to highlight more positively than the latest estimate of the CPB, namely from June. It's just moving insight, a later moment of measurement. Unfortunately on the plus is also a small mint. Mr Mulder mentioned the dismissed truck driver. Let me put it first that dismissal is always a tragedy for people. My perception is that having a job is one of the most important things that contribute to life's happiness that people experience. I would also like to say in that light that it is very good news, and that is not in the purchasing power picture, by the way, that we have the lowest unemployment rate in the Netherlands in ten years. That means that many more people can benefit from it. Mr Mulder asked about estimates. They've been adjusted again. Let me not look at the spring note, but take the most recent numbers. In the estimations, DNB assumes a contract wage increase of 2.1% in '18 and 2.6% in '19. The CPB also has better numbers. I will not say "long expected and yet arrived," but there you will see a clearer plus in the predictions that both the CPB and DNB make. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Rooijen asked about the government's collective agreement, whether this wage increase could increase by 2% to 3% and how it relates to pensioners. The scope for collective bargaining in the public sector is determined by the increase in contract wages in the market and not the other way around. The collective agreement concluded for the government therefore has no influence on the increase in contract wages. That's not how the system works. Mr Van Rooijen's next question was about the cabinet's willingness to take action on DNB, because workers should see more of it. My firm impression is that this is indeed happening, that the Planning Bureau is indeed indicating it. There will also be a reduction in charges in 2019. The AOW is simply indexed annually. Mr Van Rooijen knows that better than anyone. The AOW is linked to the minimum wage. That's the system we follow there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u56	My question was broader. I didn't ask what the effect of the collective agreement would be on government inflation. Assuming that the government, but throughout the sector, is experiencing a significantly higher wage increase, which De Nederlandsche Bank said would lead to higher inflation, my general question was what would be the impact on purchasing power. Working people get grossly modo so raises. Of course, retired people don't. This leads to a decline in purchasing power. What are you gonna do about it? Quite apart from the fact that the civil servants' collective agreement follows the market, I simply meant that if, throughout the market and subsequently in the public sector, wage increases increase does not increase by 2% to 3%, but from 2% perhaps to 3%, which leads to higher inflation and therefore to a fall in purchasing power for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u57	For the sake of precision, however, I have not seen any figures suggesting that there is going to be a decline in purchasing power among older people. I would like to exchange that with Mr Van Rooijen first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u58	The Netherlands Bank indicated two or three weeks ago that higher wages lead to higher inflation. They stopped doing that then, but I asked the question after that, of course, that can only mean that the purchasing power of older people will fall, because they will not be indexed. That's separate from the AOW. I am talking about supplementary pensions. The AOW is behind again anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u59	I want to be here, too, with all due respect to Mr Van Rooijen and how he stands up for this group. Wages are going up, DNB says. This can have an effect on inflation. It's not 100% sure. That's an important first distinction to make. Secondly, there will also be reductions in charges from the beginning of 2019. Mr Van Rooijen knows more than anyone what will happen with an old age discount. The assumption that older people, in my opinion he mentioned 2% to 3%, in purchasing power...................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u60	I meant this year. I agree with you that we do not know exactly whether wage increases lead to inflation increases, but De Nederlandsche Bank said so. The report even said that this would be a significant increase. This can only mean that this year's purchasing power will fall, for everyone, of course, but especially for the elderly, because they are sure that they will not get a raise, which is precisely the cause of inflation. So, fortunately, the workers receive a reward, which increases inflation, and the elderly are only the victims of it. That's a simple observation, isn't it? How much you and I don't know yet, but I'm sure it's happening, just like last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u61	It is a simple observation, but it is also too short by the turn. That's what I'm trying to say. The rise in wages could lead to inflation. It may also be that the overall package will have an impact on the purchasing power of older people, but I would like to point out once again that there is a reduction in the burden that will also fall on older people in 2019. It is important to establish that with each other. It's also gonna knock out old folks. Not only do I say that, but the CPB has always said that. The fact that the last estimates of the previous cabinet were somewhat disappointing is due to inflation. So we are in agreement that inflation can be ruined. Now to say that this is going to happen and that this will not only have consequences for one particular group, but will also lead to a decrease in purchasing power, is really... If Mr Van Rooijen has statistical information on this, which appears to be correct, I would very much like to receive it. Then I will start the debate with him on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u62	I have already heard Mr Van Rooijen three times, but I understand that he has a brief comment to make. The floor is yours, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u63	I would like to leave 2019 out of it. It's about the simple fact that was there in 2018. The Minister also said that this took place even last year. At that time there was no wage increase and then inflation was still disappointing. That can also have other causes. I am not talking about next year's measures. I am talking about ceteris paribus and the extra, new information on wage increases and higher inflation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u64	Mr Van Rooijen says it himself: there are several reasons for inflation. I cannot discuss a hypothetical case here with Mr Van Rooijen in isolation. It just gets too complicated. But I'd like to be convinced if he's got the numbers. We will then have to see if we can do something about it and if so, what. Again: that starts with the or-question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u65	The minister just mentioned the PVV's example of the unemployed truck driver in Almelo. He notes that it is very important to have a job. That's right. But the best man has, of course, become unemployed because of the EU and the banking crisis. It is very nice to get back to work, but that does not follow from the Minister's words. Yes: we have the lowest unemployment rates. The Minister should have said that this is also because we have changed the definition. That's a big difference. That is precisely why I gave this example: again it is hallelujah, when the people in the country do not notice it. They're still unemployed. And if they're already working, they won't get a wage improvement. That was actually the point. Our question was: when are you going to do what? When will you ensure that the Dutchman has net more in his wallet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u66	I think I just went through that last point with Mr Van Rooijen, also on the basis of the figures of DNB and the CPB. I therefore believe that I have given an answer. Still, back to what Dutch people do and don't notice. We should clear up the misunderstanding, to put it this way, that the fact that, in my view, is really true, namely that we have the lowest unemployment in ten years, would result from a shift in the definition. That's not right. We have the lowest unemployment rate in ten years. It is also extremely low compared to many other countries. I usually conduct the major debate on Europe with Mr Van Dijk, but of course I would like to do the same with Mr Mulder. Let me just say this: if there is one country that has benefited economically from the European Union, then it has been the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u67	We will have this debate on Europe at another time. But the definition figures have changed. Just because someone has not tried to apply in the last month, because he has been doing so for three or four years, he is no longer counted. That difference alone makes 250,000 people. There are a lot of people who are no longer listed as looking for work because they only work one hour. That used to be different. Those people want to work more hours. So it's wrong that these people don't count in the numbers. That was the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u68	What Mr Mulder and I find each other in is that we both think it is extremely important that every Dutchman who wants to get to work can also get to work. My observation is that employment in the Netherlands is doing very well. I simply look at the figures from the institutes that provide me with information on this and advise me, such as the Central Planning Bureau and DNB. There is still azzp debate to be held, but the employment situation in the Netherlands is incredibly good, both internationally and in the European context and in the historical context.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u69	That wasn't the discussion. It was about the fact that I showed that the definitions have changed and that this is therefore an all-time low. The Minister admits that now. That's what's good for him. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u70	No, I think I was a long way from getting rid of that misunderstanding, but as far as that has not yet worked out, I will do it again. The tightening of definitions is in no way an explanation for the excellent level of employment in the Netherlands. A lot of people have jobs now. Let's be very happy about that. Mrs Leijten asked me about the gap between rich and poor and, in particular, about poverty. An important question, which I understand very well from its political point of view. In the autumn paper and in the General Financial Reviews, the very first debate that Mrs Leijten and I had together, I said that we, as a cabinet, consider it important that everyone realises that things are improving. I believe that I also said at the time that no matter how you cut those data into pieces, and no matter if you think that some groups should have made more progress, at least all groups benefit from it to some extent. I should also like to point out that, according to the CPB transfer, the coalition agreement leads to a slight reduction in inequality. Finally, I would also like to draw Mrs Leijten's attention to the recently published report by the IFO Institute from Germany, which states that income disparities are nowhere as small as in the Netherlands. That is a European comparison, but I have a strong suspicion that there are not so many countries outside Europe that are doing better than Europe when it comes to reducing the gap between rich and poor. I am not saying that there are no opportunities to improve things further, but I do think there is a lot to be really satisfied with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u71	From the position of the 10% that it can fix for itself and actually requires little general provision, that is indeed easy to talk about, I would like to say to the Minister. How does he explain that 400,000 children are growing up in poverty and are lagging behind for the rest of their lives? How does he explain that this number has not fallen in recent years, nor is it falling now, and that this problem cannot be tackled?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u72	Just for precision, though. We stand here as a cabinet for the national interest and for the entire population. You can also tell by the numbers that the whole population is doing better. That is important to highlight, because we are not in front of a sub-group here, not even a sub-group that some others are trying to support. We are here for the national interest and we are here for all the Dutch. Mrs Leijten's question concerns the 400,000 children who grow up in poverty. Of course that is a big problem and of course we all want to do something about it. I think it is a subject that other ministers are also working on. The good news is, and it is also fitting for me to say this in this debate, that all groups, including those less broad, are improving and taking advantage of the combination of economic growth in the country and the cabinet policy of reducing burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u73	It's so hard for me. For example, in 1990 there were significantly fewer people living in poverty than today, while in the meantime our prosperity has tripled, looking at gross domestic product. We've all gotten three times as rich as we are, but there are more people living in poverty. In the crisis, we have seen this deepen. We see that it does not lead to more prosperity for families who do see their incomes rise but also their burdens increase. If you want to have a real debate on why 400,000 children are growing up in poverty and why nothing is being done about it, we need a general answer. If this minister is there for every Dutchman, he will make an action plan to really eradicate child poverty. We are asking for this action plan and the First Chamber has adopted a motion on it, but the Cabinet has rejected the request to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u74	It does not happen often, but I think Mrs Leijten is a little short of me here. I have tried to articulate that as far as I am concerned, it is good news that all the groups are getting better. I'm not just saying that. I have just referred to the advisers, but they are also the ones who draw up the so-called gini coefficient. That also says, and I would like to go over that in more detail with Mrs Leijten, the IFO institute from Germany. With an apology for English, that research reads: "Measuring Unfair Inequality: Reconciling Equality of Opportunity and Freedom from Poverty." This is a study of income and opportunity inequality in 31 countries in Europe. This research looks at the possibility that people will end up in poverty and at the extent to which residents have equal opportunities to improve economically. This study shows that the Netherlands has the greatest income and opportunity equality in Europe. For example, the Netherlands also scores better than the Scandinavian countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u75	I know that research and, of course, I read it. I also see the statistical data from which they are based. For example, such statistical data does not include asset inequality. Not only do I see the possibility of inequality of opportunity, so to speak. I simply see the report of the Education Inspectorate which says: where education in the past was the opportunity to become a quarter of a dime, so to speak, you see that in the crisis years the opportunity to get another education than your parents has deteriorated. So you can look at an international comparison and at odds based on statistics that don't include everything, but you can also just look at reality. And then I get to 400,000 kids, 400,000 kids! Those who do not have a hot meal, who cannot go on school trips and who are bullied by poverty in the family. Then I ask this Minister: why can't there be an action plan for this? And then he comes up with an international competition. I think that's a bit sad, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u76	I'm gonna try again anyway, because there are two things we need to break up here. The first is that I think Mrs Leijten is quite right to appeal to a need to do something about children growing up in poverty. By the way, so does the Cabinet. The second is: how should you look at the situation as it currently exists in the Netherlands? Then I think the following is relevant. It's not just about the statistics of foreigners, that research I just mentioned. But it is also relevant to look at the gini coefficient: it has not changed dramatically in the Netherlands in the last 10 to 15 years. That's just reality. So, yeah, we really have a job with each other, especially when it comes to kids. They can't help growing up in poverty. But no, I really am not going along with the idea that it would be completely unfair in this respect here in the Netherlands. That is simply not the case. Mr. Chairman. I would like to reply to a question by Mr Bruins on private debt: does the cabinet do enough? That is, of course, a justified point. In the Netherlands, we have control over the government's debt. I am going to say more about this, because more needs to be done. But if you look at other countries, the Netherlands is doing relatively well at that point. If you look at private debts, you can see that we, for example, compared to a country like Italy, have very high private debts. This also has to do with our house dynamics, the mortgages and the mortgage interest rate deduction. So there is also a lot to look around the corner when it comes to what we all want. But he's just right, so there's another assignment, I guess. Of course, people also have their own responsibility to pay attention to what that means for the long term. Mr Bruins also asked about the situation in Italy. He referred to Macron being born in 1974 and how I look at it. I don't think that was so much about the birth. He asked about the boom: to what extent do I look at the situation in France and Italy? I think Mr Bruins knows my views on this subject quite well by now. The Stability and Growth Pact is there for a reason. Nor is it because a Calvinist from a Calvinist country says it is so important. Those rules are not there for the sake of the rules: they are there for the sake of the citizens. We have agreed with each other that it is important that these rules be maintained, in order to ensure long-term economic growth. A number of countries simply have more to do in this area, as well as in the area of reform. I would therefore like to mention Italy immediately, because that was also a question, I believe, from Mr Bruins. As regards Italy, I have said before, and I repeat, that we must judge the Italian Government on its actions. There's a lot of speculation about it. In the meantime, of course, I have also spoken to my Italian colleague. But we really need to see what the country is going to do and draw conclusions on that basis. That is what we would like, and that is what Italy should expect from us. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs Leijten asked about another subject which also has to do with differences in the country. That is about life expectancy and whether we, as a cabinet, feel responsible for it. At least that's how I interpreted it. Of course, socio-economic status has an effect on health and life expectancy. The Netherlands also scores better here than most other Western European countries when we look at the difference between higher and lower educated and men, but it scores less well than women. There is not a ready-made solution, but if you zoom in, you will see that issues such as smoking and prevention, ensuring that people don't start smoking, but also a subject like obesity, which I think was still big in the newspaper yesterday, there are very important issues to address. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs Leijten also asked about purchasing power, but I think I took that with Mr Van Rooijen, namely what this development looked like and what it looks like. Luckily, that's better than it was a few months ago. Then I'm at second block, fiscal policy. The budgetary picture, which I have just referred to, shows that we are in a somewhat better position in 2018 and that the budget surplus is estimated at 0.5% of GDP in 2018. Public debt, which is currently slightly below 57%, is expected to decline further to around 53.3% of GDP. Then, of course, the question is how do you judge that? Of course that is good in the European context, but I would like to remind the Members of your Chamber that before the crisis we were at 42% or 43%. The fact that we now have a relatively lower interest burden of around 6 billion has to do with the reduction of that debt, but also has to do with the low interest rate. So I think we should continue on the path we have taken, because I think we will soon agree that interest charges are money that we should have spent on other things. Mr. Chairman. Mr Slootweg and Mr Sneller used to go to the in=terminal. That is a subject that is often raised. It's good to mark that the word actually says it. It's a task, so I have to deal with it as Minister of Finance. And I believe that I have also exchanged this with the House of Representatives, but perhaps in response to written questions from the House of First Instance, the moment when we fill in the mandate changes over the years. So when you see that overview, you see that often a piece is done already in spring notes, also a large piece usually in autumn notes, but it has to be filled in. So why did I choose it? Because that was obvious now, but I will also have to fill in that mandate for the rest of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u77	The Minister says: because that was obvious, but that is not in itself an argument. Then why was it obvious, then, is the question? When I look at that table, which is also in the answer to the actual questions, it is more likely that it is 0%, 3%, 0%, 1%, 0% than that it is something that is above 20%.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u78	Of course, but that also has to do with the situation in which the country finds itself. Mr Sneller and I agree: it is a task to be fulfilled. There are different budgetary moments when you can do that. You can fill in a bit at the spring note, you could theoretically fill her in completely with the spring note. You can also completely wait until the autumn note. But, of course, you want to reduce the risk as quickly as possible in principle. 'Cause you're gonna have to fill out that assignment. So there's a piece filled in now and there's a piece left too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u79	We have also had this discussion on what was left of the Annual Financial Report of the Netherlands in relation to the Autumn Note. That was still a considerable amount, because last year's deadline was fully filled in with the Navy Note. By deciding on it now, you are actually depriving everyone of the opportunity to use that money for the next six months to spend on the purposes for which it was intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u80	But then Mr Sneller might assume that we will find ourselves in a situation where all the money is drawn up in all cases. I won't try to make a definitive prediction. The obligation I have is to fill in the in=terminal. This spring, some of which have been completed. If Mr Sneller looks back on the numbers, he will see that certainly a part of that task institution was filled in with spring notes a little longer ago. It's a trade-off. Of course, you might wonder if it could have been 200 million. Perhaps yes; it could have been more. But I am not taking up any space that ministers will say in the near future: I would like to spend it. We are even reading in the newspaper, but I see that in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that most ministers still have a lot of money to spend; that is in the supplementary post.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u81	But just if the money does not even go up and there will be money left at the end, as the Minister says, there is no reason at all to fill in the deadline. Mr Slootweg's question was: is this a policy and is the Minister going to do it next year, or is it a one-off exercise to make the assessment in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u82	No, it's a trade-off at a time. I think that's prudent, too. We take a picture of where we stand and how we think it's developing. If you spread it over the period, you obviously have a better chance of completing the mission altogether than when you do so with Navy Note. Also last year was a different year. Last year was a year in which there was very little policy. This is a year in which there is a lot of policy. I will not say that colleagues have to make an effort to raise the money, but there are a lot of plans. They weren't put in the ground paint until October 26th, so it's still pawn. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Slootweg asked about worst case scenarios and the state debt, whether scenarios are being made for it. In the Ministry, there is no specific goal for the sovereign debt, which may be different for some political parties, but there is the purpose of the Cabinet to build buffers and further reduce public debt. We're just under 60% now, but there's only so much to do or we're back on top of it. Apart from the 60% debate, this is, of course, accompanied by much larger interest charges, especially when interest rates are about to rise. I really believe that we have an obligation to make both major investments in society, and the planning agency does not speak for nothing of an expansionary budget; that word says, I think, enough to make sure that we continue to reduce public debt step by step in the long term. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Snels asked about Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u83	Sorry, Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u84	I have another question about the in=terminal. The reason for this is that I am still looking with Mrs Leijten at her 7 million mbo amendment. Of the 225 million with which the deadline has been completed, 7 million would be allocated to the MBO, to Mrs Leijten's amendment, and that would not be against the budgetary rules, I believe. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u85	I'm gonna have to puzzle on that. I hear Mrs Leijten saying that the Chamber simply can't do anything, but the Chamber has a budget right. But that's another discussion. I have to go into the exact details of the budgetary rules in the coalition agreement. I do not give Mr Snels so much hope, if I am honest, but I will come back to it in the second term. I am not talking about political hope, but about the hope of the rules that have been agreed. I will try to make a statement on the political weighting, but of course that is also up to the Chamber. The Chamber is, of course, about everything in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u86	Thank you very much for this commitment, Minister. It's important. We are still working on the legislative office to make that amendment, but I do not think that will entirely work for the second term. Brightness about that is important. I do not think it goes against the budgetary rules. That is not in keeping with the political will, but that is something else. It is not against the budgetary rules and there is therefore a cover that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u87	The best thing Mr Snels can pull out of me is a very careful "maybe" twice. We're gonna take it with us in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u88	The Minister pretends to give hope to the authors of the amendment. But we are talking about 40,000 young people who have learning jobs and are trained as engineers for construction. We really need those people, but we should write off those 40,000 because there's a problem with the study funding. Now the government parties have agreed on budgetary rules. The whole room wasn't held to that at all. We can also get 7 million out of the 3.8 billion that has been re-voted over. Nothing gets in the way of that. But suppose we do that from the structural underexhaustment on Care or Social Security. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u89	We're going to start again from the beginning. I certainly have the proposers high up. So I'm not pretending; I am. I also have high regard for all the Dutch people and for the group that Mrs Leijten has appointed here. The House accepted these budgetary rules by a majority, but I also accepted them. They are of course essential to me. So I'm gonna stand for those rules in full, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u90	Anyway, the government is applying all kinds of cash slides that are complicated for us to follow. But the government can also decide that the tasks in Groningen fall outside the framework or fall into the sovereign debt and thus has far more budgetary rights than the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u91	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u92	Yeah, that's just the way it is. Then saying it's uncovered is bullshit, of course. According to 76 seats, it's uncovered. But I also asked you this. Suppose we make it out of the structural under-exhaustment created on Care and on Social Affairs, so that the government can move nicely at the end of the year or between two financial years. Can we get it out of there? In addition, we do have budgetary law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u93	Let's be specific here, too. We have three different frameworks. Mrs Leijten can't just move one thing to another if she wants to. Now I am going to take an advance on the question of the frameworks and the gas. We made those appointments for a very simple reason. As a cabinet, we want to make a lot of important investments in topics that we consider important, in defence, in security, in climate, in education and much more. In addition, we want to ensure that we reduce the debt further. It will not surprise Mrs Leijten that I also see the second part of that mission as my mission. I do not think that the agreements reached by the forming parties - and I myself have not been involved in this - are extremely sensible and prudent on the one hand with regard to the WW and the assistance and on the other hand with regard to the gas tap.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u94	Surely it would be amazing if this finance minister said about his own financial policy that he would find it unwise? What other open door can we kick in? A party member of this minister, Maxime Verhagen, is campaigning for our amendment. That surprises me too, because I'm not really a lobbyist at all. This minister is one of them. Yesterday, a fine article was published about who is being talked to and how that relates. But it's all the rules that matter to me. All those rules! 7 million for 40,000 learning places, thus helping 40,000 young people for their future. Is the Minister really so rude that he says: rules are rules; 40,000 children do not get a learning job, but I have kept to the rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u95	We have made clear agreements, both on investment and on the budgetary side. If a proposal is tabled and the House wishes to consider it, I will also give an opinion on that proposal at that time. And Mrs. Leijten shows up unexpectedly; that seems to me always a nice thing in life. I had arrived at Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. Mr Snels asked for efficiency and effectiveness and my role in this; that is how I interpret it. He was, of course, not present at the legislative consultation last week. During these consultations, we actually had a very precise exchange of views on this subject for quite a long time. In my view, the brief summary is that both the Members of Parliament present, and probably the rest of the Chamber and myself, are very motivated to ensure that we do more in terms of efficiency and effectiveness. That's one. Two is that we have begun to shape-free the way it is delivered for now. That is how the agreement was made at the time, and Mr Snels also spoke about it. Three. We see all these things coming along and I have had ministers on the phone once in a while, especially at the beginning, who asked: why should it be and can it not be otherwise? Then I said, no, the law is the law. It will undoubtedly be the case that we are going to distil out best practices there, and at least we are going to give part of the description a more mandatory character for some of the legislative proposals. But what I have explained in more detail in the legislative consultation is that we do need to collect enough data and simply experiment more before we have to do so as far as I am concerned. Mr. Chairman. Mr Slootweg asked about the cocks needed in the system of child schemes. A policy review on parental allowances is currently under way. This includes family allowances and the child-related budget. As Mr Slootweg is certainly aware, extra investments have been made in the childcare allowance in recent years, and certainly this cabinet will do so as of 2019. It makes work more attractive. I hope that this policy review will also provide Mr Slootweg with answers to his questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u96	Yes, I was aware that that was about child support and the child-related budget. My question was actually about the childcare allowance. Will they be included in the investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u97	I don't know. I could check that out. And I suspect that, if I have checked, Mr Slootweg will ask his next question, namely: can you add the child care allowance? Whether that's possible, I'm honestly not sure. Of course, that insight is absolutely relevant in itself, but I really should have a word on that. So maybe I can park that. Let me agree with Mr Slootweg as follows: I shall return to him in writing, one, the scope and, two, the possibility and the desirability of adjusting the scope in the direction he proposes. Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Vries said that there is a saving of 467 million on medicines and there are also fewer expenditures of a total of 1 billion. She asked if there could be a risk that patients would no longer have access to care. At least that's how I understood her question. It is true that we are spending approximately 920 million less on medicines and aids. How's that money built up? Half of them are savings and the other half are estimates adjustments. The government agreement already includes savings amounting to EUR 467 million. In order to achieve this saving, the Minister for Medical Care is going to take a package of measures. For example, the Drug Prices Act is being adapted and more stringent procurement of medicines and aids is being used. And so the other half really covers estimation adjustments. So that's just the best possible assessment the VWS Ministry has been able to make on this with the help of the Healthcare Institute. Mr Mulder proposes to spend extra money on the police. I would like to return to this point in the debate on the motions and the amendments. I think this is misguided. Mr. Chairman. Then again I am with Mr Slootweg, who asked whether the under-exhaustment of legal aid is structural or incidental and on which the fallback of 2019 is based. In 2017 fewer additions were issued to some jurisdictions than budgeted. As a result, there was an under-exhaustment. On the basis of the current insights, under-exhaustment is also expected for 2018. It is not yet possible to determine whether there is structural under-exhaustment. Mr Slootweg will know the volume estimates which are not simple but come from the forecast model of the judicial chains. The setback follows from that model again and concerns the Q, just to use that word. That mutation does not seem to be related to a revision along the lines of the Reiming Legal Aid Committee, I add.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u98	With this system I have a bit of a problem with it that if you don't want to put the disappointment in the picture, then there isn't. This is what the Van der Meer Committee actually says: that disappointment is there, if you look closely at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u99	So Mr Sneller has a problem with it, but what solution would he expect from me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u100	That's a really big free pass. First of all, I would like this Minister to share the analysis that the disappointment at the Q when it comes to the number of cases does not fully cover the truth, but that it is also about the number of hours needed for these cases and that it is said by both the Minister for Legal Protection and the Van der Meer Committee that these are no longer proportionate; that is actually a setback.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u101	I should then start by checking that position, whether it is true that the flag no longer covers the cargo here, because that is what Mr Sneller actually says. I can go into that again with the Minister for Legal Protection and possibly with the Minister for Justice and Security, but I find it difficult to go into the methodology that Mr Sneller does not like.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u102	It's not that I don't like it. The Minister for Legal Protection himself said during the Gerbrandy debate in June: yes, they are no longer proportionate. The Van der Meer Committee has also shown this. I do not know exactly how the bilateral talks on these issues are going between this Minister and the Minister for Legal Protection, but I think it is a good thing that this is indeed a subject of that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u103	I would very much like to undertake to talk to him about that again, but there is no information known to me if there is anything wrong with the estimate. We're talking about an estimate here. It's an estimate of what it's gonna be like next year. That is where Mr Slootweg's question comes from. I also did not understand from the Minister for Legal Protection that this estimate would not be correct, because then there is a problem. But of course I would like to check that with him and then ask him if there is any need for action.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u104	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u105	I'd really appreciate that. Moreover, this year's figure is 29 million, which goes to the general budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u106	I know. Sure, it's a windfall this year. It was also about under-utilisation last year. This is a setback in 2019. That is exactly what is remarkable about the figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u107	I would remind Members that the next debate must begin in half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u108	Mr President, many and also good questions have been asked, so I am still a little busy, I am afraid. Mr Mulder asked about the reduction of charges. It is spread over this cabinet period but also to a large extent as of 1-1-2019. Mr Slootweg asked me about the OCW budget and how we can ensure smaller differences. I understand that very well, and I have already talked to the Minister of OCW about this once. We have also agreed with each other that both Ministers of Education, wherever necessary together with me, will see if that system can be adapted and you can get some of that volatility out of it. I think everyone thinks that's wise. If that is easy, I am not sure because I would not be surprised if in the past people have come up with the bright idea that you could change the methodology but did not do it for good reasons. So we still have to make a detailed assessment of this. Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Vries asked about the NVWA, the Brexit and the ICT problems and said that these things should not be mixed. She's absolutely right about that. In the first few months of this year, the cabinet said that, however intricate we think it is, we should start from a hard Brexit. We hate the Brexit at all. We hope for as soft a Brexit as possible and a Brexit at a much later moment. But it could also go wrong. Then you must be prepared for a situation that may lead to great chaos. So we need to invest extra in vets, because that's what NVWA is all about. They'll have to be trained first. The same applies to customs. We simply need to recruit, we need to train and people must be able to get to work as quickly as possible. That's what the extra money's for. Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Vries asked about the money that is being spent on LNV; it was first separate, and then together? Setting up a ministry costs a lot of money. We have looked critically, including the Minister of LNV itself, at what is needed. It emerged that significant money is needed in the area of IT and in the area of a fully-fledged staff. As far as I am concerned, the idea of the coalition parties has really been a sensible one. It has added value for a country to have a Minister of Agriculture. Of course, the creation of the Ministry was born out of that inspiration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u109	I have asked what the incidental costs are but also what it is going to cost in structural terms. I can understand why it's gonna cost money to unpaced a ministry. There is an IT deficiency in the Food and War Authority, which is also in the Ministry of Agriculture. The NVWA now gets extra money for the Brexit; that is still on the additional post. I do not want that to be mixed up and that we are all going to use those resources for that. Can the Minister undertake to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u110	I can imagine that very well, and I agree with that, because it is really intended for a potentially big problem in trade with the United Kingdom, which we run into in a hard Brexit. The money is therefore intended for this purpose and cannot and must not be spent on another problem. I believe that the Minister of LNV is still debating the IT issue with the Chamber. So I don't think I should specifically interfere, but it's two separate cases. That's one. You also found these costs to be structurally high. We are talking about serious amounts of money. In this unbundling, the Ministry has tried to opt for the model of "together, unless." They're still in the same building. But I have now become a member of the LNV Minister who has been trying to figure out this new budget, which is easier said than done. Because the house is there, but you need new email addresses, you need new IT systems. Also, you can share some people, but other people really can't. So that has become a more costly operation than some might have thought at first. Unfortunately, this applies not only to occasional but also to structural expenditure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u111	I hear the Minister say that it has advantages to have a Minister of Agriculture, and that is the reason for spending EUR 200 million. That's an expensive minister, by the way. But I remember that we had decided not so long ago that it was very wise to merge that with Economic Affairs, where some of those functions remained but we did not have a minister. I really don't understand, and I ask the Minister to explain again, what information we had then which made us think "let's merge it" and what information we now have that makes us think: it is wise to spend another 200 million taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u112	Here too, the numbers have to be weighed correctly. It's $200 million in five years. So it's not 200 million in one year. It is also not about the minister but about the establishment of her department. If I had to make the exact comparison with earlier, I would have to do it in writing. What has moved the negotiating parties is that this is a very important sector for the Netherlands, which must be represented at home and abroad. It is also the case that the Kingdom, the Netherlands, wants to ensure representation in Europe, for example, at ministerial level. If you want to defend the interests of that large sector and the interests of the country in the best possible way, then a separate minister of LNV with a separate ministry is really an important step forward. But I also want to make a comparison with the way things used to be. That's what the cabinet decided before I went into politics, so I should check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u113	A very lean attempt to explain why we are going to spend EUR 200 million. Whether it's spent in five years or a year, it's just 200 million, it's not gonna cut a nickel. I ask this sincerely, and then the answer comes in a letter. I think it is very strange: agriculture is very important in Europe. It was seven years ago! "It is important to have a representation at European level." It was then and then there were arguments for doing so. Unless the minister really wants to be honest and there's just a reason to get other coalition parties on board and give them a job as minister. Then let him be honest about that. Before the Minister makes an attempt: I would like to receive a letter containing the considerations to reverse the merger of Economic Affairs and Agriculture and also a justification of the costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u114	Firstly, it does matter whether it is about 200 million a year or every five years. Now let's not pretend that's the same thing. Every year, I would be at that cost, and that is a less pleasant situation than it is now. I understand that Mr Azarkan says: but something else was decided seven years ago. There is no doubt that experience with this model has been gained in those seven years. It also seems sensible to me that negotiating parties should ask themselves what has worked well and what has not worked sufficiently. It has been concluded that LNV should be reorganised separately and that it should be a separate ministry. But, Mr President, I can repeat it once again: I would like to give Mr Azarkan a letter with a comparison between then and now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u115	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u116	Mr President, I have another question from Mr Stoffer. DOD gets a lot of money, but the organization's having trouble spending the money. Then we are actually close to the debate I just had with Mr Sneller. He didn't really think the division of plans into the pieces was clear. My answer would be as follows. The Minister and the Secretary of State, I believe, sent the Defence Note to the Chamber at the end of March. In it they describe what is going on in the world and how the military acts on it. They also deal extensively with the use of the additional means of government for people, resources and ways, as it is so well called. In the coming years, the Defense will do everything in its power to achieve these objectives and thus also to spend the money that goes with them. Let's be, here you see exactly what I just described. As a cabinet, we have great ambitions in the field of defence. We are also fully in favour of this, but the cabinet started on 26 or 27 October and immediately for the first year there is a very heavy expenditure reserved. Eventually, the amounts go up to 2.1 billion. I don't have the impression that the DOD wouldn't want to spend the money. It is true that, of course, they will have to and want to spend it in a sensible way, also in conjunction with Finance. (NL) Mr President, I think I have passed through the second block and come to the block of gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u117	One more question from Mr Stoffer. I'd like to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u118	My specific question to the Minister is whether there will be a cash drawer at the end of this year or not. My question is whether it will not take place. Can the Minister promise that, or will it be a huge cash drawer in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u119	That's complicated to say here. I could have already said to Mrs Leijten that cash slides are excellently related to the budgetary rules, but there must be some slippage. There's only a cash drawer to do, so from here to there, if anything comes from there to here, over the years. It might also be the case, I say it carefully, that many ministers are asking if there is anyone you can cash out with and that few ministers say that they are in the market for a cash slide. I don't want to make any promises about that. However, Mr Stoffer's methodology will also realize this with both Defence and IenW another. That's why there are more opportunities to do things long-term. Whether that is a total solution, I dare not promise Mr Stoffer now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u120	I'm looking forward to this with some confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u121	Very good. Mrs De Vries, short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u122	I think the minister lost a couple of leaves on the way. At least I have two questions that haven't been answered. One dealt with the expenditure ceiling and the cyclical adjustment for the WW and the assistance. The other concerned the supplementary item, which still contains a very large amount of resources. There are also funds from the previous cabinet that have not even been spent on the Tax Administration. How's the secretary gonna send for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u123	If I start looking for the answers, we'll be on our way even longer. Let me park the second question until the second term and answer the first question immediately. I apologise for Mrs De Vries. In my opinion, she wanted to support the cost of the... No, excuse me. This is the wrong question. She was concerned with the remaining costs of the IRS. That's how I put it, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u124	That is the second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u125	With Mrs De Vries' approval, I will take both questions with me to the second term, otherwise I will be looking. I know I wrote down one thing I wanted to mention in her direction. I'm not gonna do it both ways. With your permission, Mr President, I will go to the gas and come back to these two points in the second term. Mr. Chairman. The gas. I'm gonna say some introductory things about it. I would like to cut it in 1. the crane and the budgetary consequences of the crane, 2. the agreements that Mr Wiebes has made with the oil companies and 3. damage and strengthen. Mr. Chairman. Initiating. As a cabinet, looking at what is going on in the region, we decided to put the security of Groningen first. That was the inspiration behind all the decisions that followed. I have the impression that this was widely supported in the Chamber. So the safety's on one. Next, there is the obligation to ensure the security of supply. It goes without saying that if you make such a major decision as a cabinet and you want to take it as a matter of priority, such a decision will have financial consequences. It's as simple as that. Then you're gonna have to see how to mitigate it and how to deal with it. Mr. Chairman. First about the crane, so about the lower extraction level. I say the following in particular in the direction of Mr Nijboer, who asked whether this should not have been outside the framework. That is exactly what he and I exchanged with each other in the Navy paper. Public finances are slightly better, but we are now at around 57% and we were at 42%, 43% before the crisis. We've done and-and as a cabinet. In addition, we are inspired by the official report on how to deal with the budget. We have said that we are removing the WW and the assistance from the frameworks, because they have a disruptive effect. Now it doesn't bother you that much, but in a period of low economics you can suffer a lot from it. We have also said that we place the gas tap within the frameworks. I think that is a very justifiable decision, both in the first half and in the second half. This has everything to do with sound public finances. That was Mr Nijboer's first question. Then I come to a question from Mr Sneller about the 900 million and that this is a big decision. Of course, it is absolutely a big decision and I think it is a really sensible decision. Wiebes, EZK's colleague, has made projections on how fast can be "fast" and, in February or March of this year, has made as good an estimate as possible towards the future, with the goal of closing the tap by 2030. Then we took that projection and looked at the budgetary implications for the period up to 2022, because that is the period that we always look forward to in the Autumn paper. We deliberately did not want to take a smaller number of years, but we wanted to look ahead to that full period, precisely because it is prudent. I have therefore just said to my fellow Members: I am not going to book it in for a smaller period. I see that Mr Sneller is already looking up the state. In that state 900 million stands for the crane and 200 million because we have also made a specific reservation on the budget for a lot of other costs. That adds up to 1.1 billion in 2022. We start with 150 million in losses in 2018, was the estimate in spring note. So that's how the methodology works, and that's how I got to 900 million. I just asked Wiebes what the estimate is of what we can do as far as the volume is concerned. It is obvious that, for example, the nitrogen factory is probably not there yet, but it is at a later date. So the amounts are going down hard, and you will have to absorb that budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u126	In that case, I would like to go to the Millions Note with a more specific justification. That it is a big decision, we are totally in agreement, but I just can't get this off the road that we have been given. I'd like to know how many billions of cubic meters we're going to win less. What cost is that and what is and is not in what adds up to 900 million? Because if there's now 2.1 billion in gas benefits coming in and not all of them coming out of the Groningen field, I'm not gonna get 900 million. The Central Economic Plan of the CPB also states 0.1%. I can't do much with that conclusion either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u127	This is a question of the assessments made at the Ministry of EZK. Next, I would like to follow up on what the budget is. I would also like to be very specific about this. An assessment has been made at the time of making the Spring Note. Then we just got the version of EZK from the best possible estimate of phasing out at the moment. My colleague then informed the Chamber and, quite rightly, said: it could be and I am doing everything I can to make it even faster in later years, but I am not sure; I am trying and I cannot guarantee it. My role is, of course, to be prudent and to take the information I have at the time. We have just checked that information with EZK and Finance, and we have looked at the budgetary hold. So you can see that in the figures that have been published in the Spring Paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u128	Finally. I understand that very well, but then it's my responsibility to check it. And I can't right now, because I don't have a PxQ, to name it again, for the 900 million. I'd like to have it on the Millions note so I can check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u129	I am happy to do so, but I repeat that I cannot make the assessment of the level of extraction. As always in ministries, there is a policy decision, a policy choice, which has financial consequences. That was, of course, also a decision of the entire cabinet. We then make the calculation of the budgetary consequences thereof and determine how we deal with the account. I just said how we want to deal with that bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u130	I would also like to know how Table 1 and Table 2 work together. Should we just add it up? Are those the total cost of stopping gas? And how does it count until 2030? If the Minister takes the time to sort this out and send it to the Chamber, can he take these two things with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u131	Oh, yeah. And for the sake of precision, Mrs Leijten now refers to Table 1 and Table 2 of my letter this morning. The first table is from the Spring Note. She will recognize them, because they are exactly the same numbers, with the score of three months ago. The second table is exactly the same as Mr Wiebes sent to the Chamber yesterday. I didn't want to deviate from that either. So I'd like to show you how it works on each other, but again, that's about what's happening with regard to the fastest possible path down. Because that's what Wiebes committed himself to. And whether that goes faster or slower than we thought in spring, and what other effects there are, I am following, because that is up to the Minister responsible. Then it is up to me to show the financial consequences and to discuss with the cabinet how we deal with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u132	Of course. I have the role of the Minister of Finance quite clearly. Only, we lack certain crucial information. Not only did D66 ask for it, that's what the whole Chamber is asking for. The specialists who are also doing this debate have had all sorts of technical briefings this morning while this debate took place. There's a big debate tomorrow. I feel that the more we know, the less we know. With the intention to make Groningen safer, they actually know less and less and they feel increasingly insecure. It is good to show how these sums have been built up and how they are passed on, even after this cabinet period, if the cabinet stays in place, because it also shows: this is what we are dealing with, this means it and that is how we solve the budget. That's what I'm asking. Of course, I understand that the Minister is following the information provided by EZK, but I assume that he himself is asking for the information requested by Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u133	Of course, but I mention it because the question that is being asked is also about what the estimates and projections of an accelerated phasing-out are. It makes perfect sense. That's information we don't collect. For that, I have to look at EZK. I am about to say a lot more about the region and about damage and strengthening, but I would like to take away the picture if people were to become more insecure there. In my view, the Ministers of BZK and EZK sought dialogue just last Monday and they also wanted to respond directly to the report of the Mines Council. It has really been the intention of colleagues to give maximum clarity there. My observation is that this has also been a fruitful dialogue with the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u134	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u135	The intention is perhaps there, but when Minister Wiebes walked out of the Council of Ministers yesterday morning, he said that the region and the housing corporations are going to pay for it. Turns out that's a mistake, and that's how it stacks up. I do not want to question the intentions, but I do want to draw the conclusion that exactly how this is going with ad hoc decision-making and making people wait longer for reinforcement and recovery has not, in recent times, strengthened the confidence of the Groningen people. Surely the Minister can't see otherwise?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u136	Still a little while. I'm going to give maximum clarity to what can be done from my portfolio, but I'm also really choosing the path of care. I will be careful where I can say it exactly, where I can say it in the direction and where I cannot yet say it in the direction. I would like to draw Mrs Leijten's attention once again to the fact that this is a decision we have taken on security grounds. Of course, at the time you take that decision, you cannot look at each of those files on the crane, on the agreements with the oil companies and, thirdly, on the question of damage and strengthening, fully on how those files will play out. That is why I would like to ask for some leniency, not so much in my direction as in the direction of my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u137	About the uncertainty of the Groningers: there is no dog in Groningen who knows where he is at the moment, let alone people with a house that is broken, but that's not what my interruption is about. I'm actually shocked by what the Minister says. D66 says it with PxQ and asks it very precisely, but actually says: Minister Wiebes claims that the gas tap is going to zero, he sends a letter to the Chamber and you send a budget that does not match that at all. And what does the Minister say? I am dependent on the Minister for Economic Affairs, I do not really know exactly what is going on, and that is why I am not giving you the right information. That's impossible, isn't it? You're Minister of Finance, aren't you? You must be on top of those numbers, right? Surely you have indicated that we need to cut back if that gas tap is to close further? You have to tell us what that's paid for, don't you? Why didn't you do all that? Why such a vague story here in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u138	Mr. Nijboer can do as enthusiastic as he likes. He could have come up with the idea of solving this problem in a different way over the last few years. We are trying to do this as prudently as possible. We have made a decision on the crane. We took the decision on the crane in the first quarter of this year to the best of our conscience, and then EZK's colleague made the best possible assessment of how the extraction could end towards 2030. Then, in my view, it is my job to verify this together with the Minister of EZK. He also said, also towards the Chamber, that there was a path and that he was going to try to do it faster. I think he has sent another letter to the Chamber on this matter recently. Both seem to me to be very valid, but if it is February, March, April, I must, of course, take the best possible assessment of that moment of Mr EZK's colleague and take budgetary measures for it. That makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u139	Yeah, but the problem is the room has a huge puzzle. He's got letters from the Minister of Economic Affairs saying, "This is how it goes." The Minister of Finance says: things are different; I only cover for this year and we will see over the coming years. And then he gives an interview in Het Financieele Dagblad in which he says: yes, we know how we're about to do it, but we don't want to tell the Chamber. That's no way to do it, is it? That's no way to do it, is it? Then the Minister can take you because he finds it annoying that I'm asking a critical question, but this is just a budget policy of lickvestje.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u140	I am concerned that Mr Nijboer is not giving a proper presentation here. I have looked to honour and conscience and looking at the dates that have also been discussed in the Cabinet, at what the path looks like with the Spring Note. It makes perfect sense, I think, for me to have to take that data. If it's about long-term coverage, I can pick up the examples. Let me do that anyway. I would like to mention examples from the past in relation to this system. 'Cause what's the Spring Note about? The Spring Note covers the current financial year, which is due in 2018. In 2019 we show how we cover things long-term. That's always been the system. In my opinion, there are examples to be found, from 2015, from 2016, where this methodology has been quite different from last year, for example. Last year, however, a full disclosure was given. That was because it was a transitional year and the Minister of Finance wanted to give the forming parties all the information. But it's not like this is a deviation from the system. That's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u141	I have 14 examples. Three are from last year, but from 2016 I call the national police structural, from 2015 the counterterrorism, the pgb deficit, the bed-bath-bread regulation 20 million structural, the mission VenJ. I also have examples from 2014. It's just good practice that when a government says she's making money for something, she tells the Chamber right away where that came from. This coalition refuses. This minister refuses to do so. But that is not a sound budgetary policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u142	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Spring Note 2015: we had reported a multi-annual breakdown of the rental fee, while the coverage with the 2016 Million Note became visible. Other examples are the measures for DJI on the VenJ budget and the lump sum and the subsidy mission at OCW in the 2016 Spring Note. Mr Nijboer says it as if we were going to deviate from the methodology here, but that is simply not right. I'm very sorry. I understand that Mr Nijboer would have liked to have had all the information. I also understand that he and his party would have liked to make a different assessment of the frameworks, but this cabinet does not. I also call on the agreements from the frameworks because otherwise the suggestion would arise that amounts do not exist if you allow them to be blamed. That's just not true. That means we're moving the bill to the future. I think it is very sensible that the cabinet and an expansionary fiscal policy should be pursued, as the CPB calls it, and ensure sound public finances in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u143	I actually have another question, which, of course, has something to do with this. The Minister said that he would eventually get the volume data from his colleague from EZK, that he would then look at the budgetary implications and so on. Perhaps I misunderstood, but are you aware of these budgetary consequences before Mr Wiebes brings the proposal to the Council of Ministers and the cabinet as a whole takes a decision? So, including the budgetary implications? Or do you say: no, the cabinet has decided to close the tap and it has taken a number of further decisions until yesterday, and we are then going to look at the budgetary implications on the basis of these decisions? I'm actually really curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u144	For the record, things like that go hand in hand for a part. Of course, it is not the case that Mr Wiebes woke up one morning and thought: I am going to do it this way only; we are going down as quickly as possible and I will tell you this in the Council of Ministers tomorrow. The coalition agreement has agreed what we are doing within the framework and what we are doing outside the framework. I think Mr Van Rooijen is quite familiar with that agreement. There was also a projection of the crane. Then all kinds of misery took place in the province, especially in the period December-January. At first, the Minister of EZK has thought very hard about how he can ensure safety by doing as much as possible to strengthen it. I think that he and the whole cabinet have been increasingly absorbed in the idea that we need to go about things in a fundamentally different way. And then comes the discussion: what have we agreed again, also in the financial sense, and what consequences does that have? In my view, with this spring note, we are doing exactly what the negotiating parties to the coalition agreement have agreed, namely: the crane is within the framework, and when it comes to damage, strengthening and the money flowing through the NAM, it has consequences for the balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u145	I would just like to put my question more precisely: did you have, when the final decision was taken in spring, which was also included in the Spring Paper, to take production steps down, so before the cabinet took that decision quite suddenly, about what is now in Table 1? Or did that only come into more detail later, and was this actually just a bit of an initial assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u146	I really need to get this out of my head right now. In my memory, however, the memory is a dangerous beast, partly of course, has been tiled, also because the colleague first said: what if we were to turn off the crane? Then you'll see how fast that can be done. And there was of course also a phase of puzzles followed, because you can't just close the crane overnight. At that time, for example, there was a discussion about the nitrogen plant and about the agreements that you might be able to make with large consumers. So this has gone one step at a time. Of course, there is also finance, because even though the contours were not immediately 100% clear, they are of course becoming more clear step by step. So it's not like I had this picture in my head on day one. It's not like I didn't start thinking until after this was a failure accompli. It often goes hand in hand. Mr Van Rooijen will recognize this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u147	We'll come back to the underlying question later. My image, and so it is also mentioned by many people in the Netherlands, and certainly by them in the more financial corner, is that this is perhaps the most expensive decision a cabinet has ever taken. It is far more radical than the closure of the mines, which took place a long time ago. I always have a picture of this, but this is getting a little extravagant: we are only beginning to see the major financial and budgetary consequences: the long-term financial impact on households, but also the impact on budgetary estimates up to 2030 and so on. We will come back to that, of course, but the sooner we understand that until 2030, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u148	Yes, but the projections of what Mr Wiebes called "the basic path" to go back to 2030 have changed with the Chamber. So what we are doing is making a long-term projection of the budgetary effects. We made it until 2022. And again: we made those agreements in the coalition agreement with regard to the crane within the frameworks, and that of damage and strengthening through the NAM. Mr Van Rooijen will be able to imagine that I wanted to stick to those agreements, because I think that this is a fair and real balance, including towards future generations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u149	In the meantime, I have arranged for you with the video reference, the VAR, which we call "the Registry," for half an hour, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u150	I'm gonna hurry up, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u151	I've been playing all my negotiating room by now. I'm just being sent, aren't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u152	Mr President, if I say that this is the case with me, we have another problem, so let me not. I think I have discussed the first part, so the crane, which is in a way the most present with me, by now. I'm going to the deal with the oil companies. I would also like to be clear about what is positive about this. And, of course, I want to be clear about what's behind that appointment. What's positive? That the oil companies abandon the claim of 70 billion; that is one. Two: that hard guarantees have been given for paying the damage. You can, of course, have a debate on whether it was necessary. Well, I'd rather have guarantees than no guarantees. Thirdly, agreements have been made on security of supply. It is also relevant, because there is no obligation to win. You could also have imagined that the oil companies would have said under a certain point: we stop. And yes, as a country we have another problem. And the fourth is the share of the NAM in that one billion. For the sake of completeness, I also said things about this last week. It is an agreement of 50% and 50%. One 50% is directly for the State. Of the other 50%, 73% is for the State. That's the methodology. Although the oil companies contribute to that billion, they only pay a small minority of the one 500 million. I didn't wrap my head around that for a second. That's on the plus side. But it is also true that there have been agreements on the distribution. That distribution was very favourable to the State on the revenue side, with initially 85% to 90% in profits, and that is back to 73%. On the cost side, we went from 64% to 73%. That's what the whole package looks like. I think it's exactly like that in my letter. Then there is Mr Snels' question about the Vpb and its consequences. He's right. We always do. We are of course separating expenditure and revenue from the national budget. It is good to mention that we have a separate category of Vpb gas. Mr Snels will recognize that. Within the Vpb we have a separate category of gas and it is always staged separately. I understood yesterday's letter from the Minister of EZK in such a way that he wanted to be transparent about all the effects and that is why he wanted to show both one and the other. That is why I took that table back in the letter. For clarity: the separation between income and expenditure remains what it is, but the effect on the balance is indeed so that you strike in that way. That's just a fact of life. I understood that as an attempt by EZK's colleague to be as transparent as possible. Then there are a few comments on budget law. Of course, the Chamber has the right to be informed... Maybe I should take a break before I go to the next topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u153	Why don't you take a break? Mrs. De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u154	I understand that the Minister is moving to another block. I had asked for a breakdown of the non-tax resources as set out in Table 2, which is included in this section. At the same time, an occasional amount is made available for the economy and the viability in Groningen. There's no cover for that either. I would ask the Minister, if he sends the supplementary information letter to the Chamber on the structure of these amounts, to pay attention to this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u155	Yeah, that's excellent. Here's a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u156	Mr Nijboer, a brief question as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u157	I have really asked a number of questions about the claim of 70 billion that the Minister is now referring to. Did he know about that? Did the companies threaten to do that? Did they say they'd lay it? How big was it? Was it tested by the county attorney? All the questions I asked about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u158	I'm only halfway through the block of oil companies. I had switched from Mr Snels' Vpb to budget law, but within the category of gas I am in the second container, namely the oil companies. I'd gotten to budget law. Questions have been asked about this, understandably. The Minister of EZK has of course agreed on a mandate in the Council of Ministers and, of course, there has also been intensive contact with me on this issue. I'll say a little more about that later. He believed that I fully understand that it is very complicated to make such an appointment in trialogue with the Chamber. It's been a very long journey. He's been working on that for months. He has made every effort to achieve the best possible result for the State. This is, in my view, Mr Snels' question within the limits of both the Constitution and the Compatability Act. It is a minister, but it is not so much about me as about Wiebes and state law. A minister has the opportunity to carry out legal acts and conclude contracts in this way. I realize very well that the Chamber says it has a lot of implications for her if the only way to undo such an appointment is to give the State a claim for damages. Of course, I am well aware of that, but this is really within the limits of the Compatibility Act. We have, of course, checked this, particularly in view of the questions raised in the debate. It is also within the limits of the Constitution. A minister, not this minister, but the minister of EZK in this particular case, simply has that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u159	Who did you check that out with?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u160	We just checked it internally. I'll be able to say a few words about the state's attorney, but that's more about the content. I think that has been checked by the lawyers of the Ministry of Finance, but let me come back to that in the second term. I would like to add that it is not a legal act that I have entered into. It is perhaps more a question that should be asked to the lawyers at EZK. I'm trying to answer as clearly as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u161	I appreciate that. I am actually wondering if we will get a definitive answer from the Minister, so I am considering putting forward a motion to get the Council of State to look at that again, even if it was just to think at all about how that budget law and the Compatibility Act relate to legally binding agreements, especially when it comes to such large amounts. I'm not even doing it so much because of this file.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u162	I can imagine that very well from Mr Snels and from the Chamber. I understand very well that he wants to know. My firm impression is that this relates well to the Compatibility Act, that EZK's colleague did not intend to negotiate this with anything other than the national interest, that he kept the Cabinet informed, that he had asked for a mandate, that he kept me informed in more detail, that the lawyer was involved, that other lawyers, I believe, were still involved and that each of the pieces of the puzzle I have just mentioned were weighed as carefully as possible. I'll check it out for the second term. Perhaps I should agree with Mr Snels that the exact question about budget law is only indirect with me. Mr Nijboer asked about the purchase price and whether it was. An inventory has been made by EZK. Once again, he must discuss this in detail with Mr Wiebes. An inventory has been made of what the risks were and what the things you would like arranged. That claim certainly played a prominent role in that. My observation is that there has been close contact with various lawyers, both internally and externally, and certainly also with the national attorney. But what, at what time and what specific question was asked, I cannot answer at that level of detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u163	I actually think that the Finance Minister should know this in detail when it comes to 2.8 billion taxpayers' money. We have appointed a Minister of Finance to say to the Minister of Economic Affairs: "Ho, ho, you can sign here, but we are bound by that as a State. I want to know, exactly, whether such a claim has a chance of success. I want to know very precisely whether Shell and Exxon would dare, if we as a cabinet say that for security reasons gas extraction goes to zero, to sue against the State while the Council of State has destroyed twice a decision that makes us not safe." That's what I expect from a finance minister. So you didn't, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u164	Now Mr Nijboer is suggesting another contradiction here. I just said this. When exactly what question has been asked to the national attorney is a process that I am only partly involved in. Of course, we have also looked at the contract legally and we have also seen documents from the national attorney. That of course covered much more of the puzzle than just this part. It speaks for itself, I think. Mr Nijboer is right that, as a dossier is bigger and more important, it is obvious that the finance authority, but also myself, is more involved. That's exactly how it went.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u165	Then I come to the question of how real a claim from two oil companies is, and certainly from Shell, after all that has happened in Groningen in recent years. They said, "There remains gas in the ground because of the safety of Groningen. For that we are going to file a claim of 70 billion against that right-conservative cabinet. We're gonna sue for that." How real is that? That is the justification for the EUR 2.8 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u166	That too is too short a turn. There's a list of pluses and minuses. You just have to be real about that. I just mentioned the pluses and I've also been transparent about the minuses. You have to bear in mind that you have an opponent. That's just a principle of good governance. That opponent has the opportunity to go to court. Of course, you have to assess how real that is. The value of what's in the ground is about 70 billion. That is what Mr Nijboer and I agree. The best outcome you can get in a procedure is zero. That's your best outcome if you go to trial. Everything else is loss. Of course, this has a fundamental value for the State, regardless of whether you estimate that probability at large, small or quite small. You can make an assessment of that. You will then have to take the expectation value, because you have to look at the height of that claim and how real it is and what misery you are in next. I understand very well that Mr Nijboer is asking: have you really weighed all that legally? That's primarily what the Minister of EZK did. Finance has certainly been watching, lawyers have been watching and the state attorney has been watching. I would like to leave the idea that you should not take this into account because Mr Nijboer thinks that this is not likely. Imagine the opposite. Suppose we had thought of this: let's get on with it, because that chance is extremely small. If that had materialized, the world would have been too small. The Chamber would have said: your cabinet might have felt that this was a state risk, but this was a huge risk and a huge amount of money, and you did not cover it. That wouldn't have been decent of the cabinet, would it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u167	This is exactly why I, as a Member of Parliament, would have liked to have information in advance. I am now asking for this because we are only now getting the information to the point. Out of 70 billion, 90% went to the state. There was still a cost to be paid. Shell and Exxon never gave the impression that they would do this. So I think it is very relevant, also for the public debate in the Netherlands, whether Shell and Exxon have threatened such a claim, when they never said so in the public debate. That's relevant information, isn't it? I think it is very relevant to see the probability calculations about how high that claim would be, and what would then be reasonable for the cabinet to argue against. My thesis is zero. Anyway, if you can back that up to 2.8 billion, I'm very curious about that. That is a great deal of money for taxpayers. We, as parliamentarians, must be keen on this. Apart from some generalities, some exchanges and a complete package, we really don't need any information to make that judgment. I think we should have it as a parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u168	I think that is exactly what tomorrow's debate is about. As far as my portfolio is concerned, I am trying to ensure maximum transparency. I do not have to say that this is not just about the nice things, if I may recall the beginning of this debate. I am also trying to be as transparent as possible about the various parts of the gas debate. I would like to point out to Mr Nijboer that you can say that there is little chance. Well, that's an assessment, then. Even if the odds are low, the opposite should not happen. The opposite, namely not covering you against a potential claim of 70 billion, would, in my view, have been unsellable. If it had been the other way around, I would have said the same to the Minister of EZK. Suppose he had come to me, or to the cabinet, and said: I have no guarantee, but I estimate the odds so small that I leave it further out of comparison. We wouldn't have accepted the opposite, would we? Doesn't that give you a clear direction as to why you'd want to take something like that with you in an appointment like this? This is the same in terms of security of supply and distribution, even though that distribution is not fifty-fifty. I have always been transparent about that billion. And it's the same with the warranty deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u169	I don't have a question. I have a factual remark. The minister always says "for precision." He mentioned a claim of 70 billion. 90% of them were from the State before this deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u170	I think it's a good thing this will be re-enacted tomorrow. I'm really as transparent about it as I can be. I would also like to stress once again that we have really decided as a cabinet that I would be closely involved. I think that, taking into account everything, this is a deal with pluses and minuses, which is the consequence of good negotiation by the colleague but also of the basic choice that the cabinet has made with regard to Groningen and putting security first. Mr. Chairman. I don't know how much of the time I have left, but I'd actually like to go to the last topic in "gas." Then I have almost nothing in "other" anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u171	Look, that's gonna save you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u172	I hope I'll be a long way. I see relatively few questions about the last piece: damage and strengthening. What is important to stress is that on Monday I have to say that the Cabinet received the report from the Mining Council on Sunday. Let me take it a little bit wider, not to go on slippery ice: it was during the weekend. As far as I'm concerned, it was Sunday. On Monday, the cabinet discussed with the region that this was a very important contribution to clarity for the province. Then, the dialogue between the two colleagues made a very clear contribution to the clarity that we are obliged to make to the province. This makes it clear that everything that is unsafe is covered by the NAM. The NAM will also cover the so-called intermediate category, i.e. the strengthened category. It has also been agreed to discuss the so-called batch 1581 with each other and to take over this, I believe, until September. So that's the third piece. That's still the hottest part of the needle, but I wanted to mention it because it's a third component, mainly affecting public debt. Mr. Chairman. I have already answered the question about Italy in the box. Mr Mulder asked about Greece. I think I've already served his colleague Van Dijck in several AOs on this. I think it is really good news for Greece but also for the European Union that we are entering a new phase. I think it is good to stress that virtually no one expected the Greeks to do so much over the last three years and to keep to the commitments and reforms, with all the pain and difficulty and with all the depth. That's where they stand now. It has been said: if that happens, we must also get to the end of the programme in the summer of 2018. We're going into that period. Mr Mulder knows, or he may have been informed by Mr Van Dijck, that this also means that we have opted for debt relief. That cannot be surprising, because that is well within the terms of reference and the agreements previously exchanged with this Chamber by my predecessor. On the other hand, however, Greece must continue with reforms. The amount of the debt in absolute terms is maintained. Mr. Chairman. Another question from the CDA about green bonds. That was an inspiring question and an inspiring subject. I'm very interested in the issue of green bonds. Mr Slootweg was in favour of his question, I have to say honestly. I have been investigating for some time whether this could be done, what its consequences would be and what possibilities this would create. That is not something that appears to be possible from today to tomorrow, is my first observation. So we are really going into the new calendar year before such a product will finally see the light of day. But I'm farther than the start of the study phase. Maybe I can put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u173	Do I understand correctly that this is then a commitment to really investigate it and to study more on the question of whether this is really a possibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u174	That is the kind of commitment that I have fulfilled acutely. Because I'm past that stage. I'm gonna continue to investigate. I'm going to continue to investigate because I have that intention, but there are still a lot of hooks and eyes on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u175	When do you think you can take the Chamber into this trial?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u176	Yes, as early as possible, as late as inevitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u177	Look, you've got that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u178	May I agree with Mr Slootweg that I am going to try to do so in Q3 and that it will not be later than Q4 of this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u179	Some people talk about quarters, people who haven't worked at McKinsey, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u180	I'm so inspired by people who talk here in P's and Q's that I'm doing it in all kinds of other contexts now. But you're absolutely right, I need to talk about quarters. Mr Slootweg asked an intriguing question, or at least a question on which the answer is intriguing and which was about the Hugo Breast Standard and whether there are more subjects where the government has been put at a distance. Standards play a role in many policy areas, such as human resources standards and quality standards. The adoption of such a standard and its budgetary incorporation are almost always the subject of political decision-making. Whether it's about child care or class size. This really works differently in the healthcare sector, where health insurers, health offices, patient organisations and healthcare providers determine what the quality standards are. You know, Mr President, that in this company I hardly dare to talk about care, because I am at risk of being corrected. In any case, the answer to Mr Slootweg's question is that this figure does not know his equal outside of care. Mr Azarkan asked what I think of the idea of the Congressional Budget Office in the United States. That is the mouse compared to the elephant, because the American Congress is of a completely different size, as is the country. When I look at the number of people who support it, it is an organ that is of a completely different size; it has more people than just the number of members that this Chamber is rich. Those would be my introductory remarks. I do not think what I think is relevant, because this is the question of what the Chamber thinks about it. If the Chamber thinks a Congressional Budget Office is necessary, it's up to the Chamber. The VVD mentioned the Brexit versus Italy. I just said something about Italy. On the Brexit, I would like to add the following to Mrs De Vries. It may be that the financial risks aren't so bad, but it's an ugly sum. We are already paying the bill through the state budget where customs and the Food and War Authority are concerned. We will also be at the forefront of paying the bill in the economic situation, because Britain is simply one of our most important trading partners. Much of the traffic we exchange, mostly enters the continent through the Netherlands, Belgium and France. So in logistics too, we are at the forefront of the consequences, even if we have it right for ourselves. When I spoke to my British colleague, he explained once again that in Britain, for example, there were no parking spaces for lorries on the other side of the Channel because they were no longer checked. So we shouldn't underestimate what the Brexit is going to do. It is then true that the projections differ greatly and that also very much depends on what kind of Brexit we are facing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u181	Shortly, Mrs. De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u182	In order not to give the wrong impression: I do not underestimate the consequences of the Brexit. My question was directed at Italy, because the farewell director of De Nederlandsche Bank said that the risks were not so bad. My question was whether the Minister shares that optimism.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u183	I've seen that farewell interview, of course. I thought at the time: it must be great to have such a tour with farewell interviews. Some may think "sooner rather than later," but such a tour with farewell interviews has advantages. As I said earlier, it would be wise for Italy to continue with reforms. It is true for all euro area countries that it is wise to put the budget in order, especially in this period of good economic weather. For the rest, I have deliberately been careful with my remarks in this Chamber and publicly about Italy. To say a lot about that before the government has barely begun is simply not very helpful. Perhaps Mrs De Vries will be able to justify some caution on my part. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered virtually all the questions within the limits of the time you have taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u184	That is open to debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u185	The end of my speech was on the OECD report. It specifically states that flexwork has grown enormously and that the fiscal stimulus plays a major role in this. In fact, on page 13 of the summary there is talk about completely abolishing it. Will the Minister respond to that? If that incentive could be reduced, possibly linked to disability insurance and a pension obligation, then we have a win-win situation. Then there is more security for non-workers for their old age and disability, and then more people go on to work, which I think is also important. I would point out that self-employed people up to €23,000 do not pay contributions and taxes. If they become employees, they will again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u186	Mr Van Rooijen is right on three points. One: I forgot the question. Two: the OECD is indeed showing this. It's even more extreme than he says. I had Ángel Gurría visit this week. I run into him occasionally, but he came to explain this report now and then. In one of the states is the Netherlands when it comes to the percentage change all the way to the right and that is the highest in the graph. I don't know the page number by heart, but I can see the diagram. The Netherlands has the greatest progress in flexwork. Three: what I think he agrees with the cabinet is that we want to do something about flex work. We want to make sure that people build in sufficient guarantees there. I am going to be more careful before I get involved in Mr Van Rooij's win-win situation. Then I have to study the position of Mr van SZW.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u187	Can the Minister promise that, after he has discussed it with the Minister of Social Affairs, he will come forward with a letter on this subject before Princess Day? It is very important that this is discussed very early in the cabinet. The issue has already been raised in the 2015 IBO report and nothing has actually been done about it for years. We don't want 1 million people to remain in uncertainty about their health and their old age, do we? If they are employed, it is important for the tax authorities, but for the people themselves much more. So I'm thinking about our kids here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u188	Could I make it even more beautiful for Mr Van Rooijen? I would like to agree with him that I would ask my colleague from SZW to respond to the OECD report. Honestly, it's his wallet, too. I shall then put that next to the cabinet measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u189	That is a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u190	The promise is I'm gonna do it. No doubt there'll be a letter...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u191	Is there going to be a letter or just a conversation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u192	I undertake to ask the Minister of SZW to send a letter. It would be sad if that letter didn't come. That would say something about my eroding authority. I'll try to make sure that that letter actually gets there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u193	The cabinet comes with a reaction and Wouter Koolmees, the Minister of Social Affairs, will sign him on behalf of the cabinet. Then I think you're out. I've been talking about inequality. We have income inequality, property inequality, but certainly also great differences in how old we get and how healthy we get. The Minister has, in a subtle way, a bit wriggled that away. The latest study, which was published yesterday in De Financieele Dagblad, shows that we are as big in inequality as the United States. The same is true of power inequality. I asked the Minister whether, in addition to 'a budget in order', he felt responsible for 'public health and order'. I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u194	Mr President, you see me hesitant about the approach I have to take here. That is because, in my opinion, not in a subtlety but in fact, I have said how important it is both about work and about health. Furthermore, I have said that I recognise that, in my opinion, we are all uncomfortable about the fact that there is a difference in health. In this way, part of the population not only grows less old but also has less healthy years. Mrs Leijten knows that statistics in much more detail than I do. Of course, that is problematic. The cabinet is responsible for the total and within it I have a very specific responsibility and it deals with the financial issues. Of course, we discuss the consequences of the policy with colleagues in the cabinet, and we look far beyond the financial aspect. In this sense, I feel responsible as a member of the cabinet for everything that is happening in the Netherlands, but of course I have no particular responsibility, no specific responsibility in this respect. That would also be strange, because the members of the cabinet have specific responsibilities for either Defence or Education, etc. and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u195	Rounding up. I really want to go to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u196	I am actually shocked by this Minister's limited view of his responsibility. The more unequal we are in economic terms and certainly in health terms, the less economic growth. We know that our young people are far too little athletes. 55% of the children in primary school do not get their sports hours, and we know that this will lead to enormous health differences in the future. It also leads to enormous costs that we all bear again, and I find it very unwise that this finance minister should say: that is not my responsibility. I would like to ask him again: does he not think that he is responsible not only for sound public finances but also for a healthy society?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u197	The most important thing now is how Mrs Leijten interprets what I have said. In that interpretation she nevertheless takes some poetic freedom, because I have said that I feel responsible for these issues in general. I also see it as my role to draw attention to these issues in the Cabinet and to have a discussion on them. But the constitutional reality is that different ministers have different portfolios with specific responsibilities. I cannot make that any different in a debate like this. So I feel responsible and I also like to be accessible on all these subjects. If I do not like that, Mrs Leijten is here to address me anyway. But I have no specific responsibility. That is how the balance sheet is, and that is a little less brief than the way Mrs Leijten summarized the net.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u198	Before we go to the second term: there is still a small pile of amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u199	Mr President, I shall have to collect it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u200	I hear it said that it can be done in the second term, but it is preferable to have had that in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u201	Mr President, I must honestly say that it is quite a pile and that I have not even read them all yet. There's a thicker pile now than before I took a break. And then I've been talking semi-continuously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u202	It's five, but we'll do it in second term. Is there a need for a second term? Isn't it? Mr. Mulder, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u203	Mr. Chairman. In my contribution, I dealt with the difference between The Hague theory and the real world, between raging press releases from this cabinet and real life, between the cabinet screaming from the rooftops that everything is going to be top-notch and the ordinary citizen who struggles to pay every month. And yet during this debate, another very clear example emerged. During the discussion I had with the Minister on unemployment, that proved to be quite clear once again. The minister's just looking at the theory. He says: yes, top of the line, we have never had so few unemployed in this country. But now the reality, the CBS figures of 30 May of this year. Official unemployment is 396 000. That's right. But there are also 253 000 people in this country who are available but who have given up applying in recent years. Those people don't work, but they do. And we're not talking about the people who want to work more. That's 400,000 people, too. We're in over a million. This is indeed due to a change in the definition, because until 2015, people were counted among the working population if they wanted to work at least 12 hours a week. So that has changed, because the current definition is turning it around a bit. That definition says that anyone who works at least one hour a week does not count as unemployed. So it is a difference of definition. So it is not a hallelujah, except in The Hague reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u204	A question from Mr Slootweg, please be brief and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u205	Isn't it also true that anyone looking for work between one and twelve hours is now also looking for work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u206	Yeah, he's looking for a job. Correct. But what I wanted to say is that it's not true that these theories are true. Because the people in the country want to work. They don't work, and that's why they have a problem with paying the bills. It's not what's really happening anymore, and that's what we were trying to prove. So Dutch people suffer from it. That's why there's two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to immediately use EUR 2 billion of the budget surplus to reduce rents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands owes many billions to Greece;]] [[Whereas the Court was previously promised that all Greek loans would be repaid with interest;]] [[Whereas the support programme for Greece expires on August 2018 and the Greeks have to stand on their own feet;]] [[noting that the chances of us ever getting our money back are getting smaller;]] [[calls on the government to immediately recover the billions lent, with interest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34960-3]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34960-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u208	Mrs. Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I still have a few short points. In any case, thank you to the Minister for his reply, as well as his commitment to make the justification of the figures in the letter on gas sent this morning more extensive and to come back to the House of Representatives. The Minister is also going to send a letter about LNV. In any case, I would like to ask that it also provide a justification for the costs incurred for the division of the ministry and also indicate what the long-term structural costs will be. There were still two points left from the first deadline on which the Minister would return. The first concerns the budgetary rules for the cyclical part of the WW and the assistance. Why does the framework seem to be raised? Can a further explanation be given? The last point was about the funds in the supplementary item. This includes, for example, resources for the Tax Administration. We have just received another communication on this subject. Those are even resources from the previous cabinet. How quickly can they be used to really solve the problem? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u210	Thank you. Then Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This was yet another debate in which many major issues were discussed, not only the gas in Groningen but also the disappointments in the donation and inheritance tax, and certainly also the position of the Chamber in terms of information and in terms of budget law and the Compatibility Act. I would like to table two motions, both of which, in a way, concern the Compatibility Act. The Minister of Finance is the guardian of the Compatibility Act for a reason. The first motion deals with the consequences of the main agreement between the Minister of EZK and Shell and ExxonMobil. I think it is important that we allow the Council of State to consider this, particularly in this case, in order to consider what the position of the Chamber actually is. It is not only the opposition but also the coalition that makes me feel that there are many questions. It's important that we get a little more insight into it. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is uncertainty as to the possible legally binding consequences of the EZK's main agreement with Shell and ExxonMobil and how these consequences should be seen in relation to the Compatibility Act and the Court's budget law;]] [[calls on the Council of State to request information before Prinsjesdag in which this main agreement is balanced against the Chamber's Compatibility Act and Budget Law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Snels and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34960-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u212	Another motion on Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. In general terms, the Minister has addressed my speech and his role in ensuring that we are really going to complete and enforce the new Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act and that we are strict on that. But he did not go into my observation that the cabinet has now for the first time admitted that from 1.4 to 1.6 billion losses due to the abolition of the dividend tax, the vast majority go to foreign treasuries. That raises a lot of questions about efficiency. The Minister left those questions behind. Maybe he'll come up later. At least now before that, this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act states that each proposal must contain an explanation of objectives, effectiveness and efficiency;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet may intend to include the abolition of dividend taxation in a legislative package of the Tax Plan;]] [[calls on the Government to apply Article 3.1 of this Act separately to the proposal to abolish the dividend tax and to analyse the objectives, effectiveness and effectiveness of this proposal, in line with the Compatibility Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34960-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u213	In my view, it is very important for the cabinet to implement this in this way too, otherwise I do not think that Article 3.1 is going to be so much more. Finally, a revised version of Mrs Leijten's and Mr Alkaya's amendments has been distributed. That amendment is about the MBOs and the learning places. In the meantime, a cover has been found via the in=deposition. I have co-signed this amendment with my colleague, Mr Özdil. I think it is entirely within the budgetary rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u214	Thank you. Then Mr Slootweg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For my part, no motions, but a comment and a question. First of all, I am extremely pleased that the green union principles without my knowledge have found a place in the study phase at the Ministry of Finance. I hope there's something we can go on with. I'm waiting for that hopefully. I did have one more question that I didn't know had been answered. Maybe it can still be taken into account in the second term. Otherwise, I hope to get an answer to that at another time. The question is what exactly is going on with foreign students participating in our education system? From the answers to the actual questions, I could not get that clear. Is there no relationship with the higher costs of scientific education and higher education? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u216	Thank you. Then Mrs Leijten from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u217	Mr. Chairman. Not only the economy is growing, but also the wealth inequality is increasing. Income inequality is growing. The poverty in which people live is being deepened and growing. There are still 40,000 children who grow up in poverty and suffer lifelong harm for the rest of their lives. Income has been lagging behind for years when it comes to their spending space due to higher healthcare costs, higher housing costs and higher energy costs. Socio-economic health inequalities are growing. And this minister doesn't feel responsible for all these things. We know that if we are less different and more healthy, even in the future, that is good for economic growth. The idea that people are only there for their own economic and financial interest may be in the financial sector and may still be in the minds of policy makers. But it is clear that we need each other and that you live much more pleasantly in a society that exudes that you need each other, in which people are not excluded from opportunities, from health, from getting old. Survival of the fittest doesn't exist. Coming together does. You cannot close your eyes to growing socio-economic health inequalities. Just someone who hears what the practice is every day should also know how valuable it is to have access to medicines, for example. The Minister did not go into it, but again an account of 40 million is placed with the sick while there is always budgetary room for funding on the health budget. I don't think I can explain it. I believe that this minister can show that he means well with the future of our country, of our children, of our bodies. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas only 55% of 4- to 12-year-olds comply with the Health Council's motion guidelines;]] [[Whereas it benefits children's health throughout their lives when they move more;]] [[Considers that the appointment of more professional teachers can contribute to the movement that children have;]] [[calls on the government to release funds for more professional teachers in the Millions Note 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34960-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u218	There's still a question left over about the people with tremor damage. They will be billed, e.g. higher capital taxes or the payment of surcharges if they have a compensation in their account from 31 December to 1 January. That is not the case for anyone with special abilities, I would say. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that damages resulting from earthquake damage or injury are not property or income;]] [[noting that the Tax Administration treats those damages as ordinary assets;]] [[calls on the Government to include compensation for damages in particular, so that the entitlement to supplements does not disappear;]] [[also asks the Government not to charge a capital return charge on these damages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34960-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u220	Then Mr. Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u221	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. In the first term, I asked to use these times of high economy and take advantage of the opportunities to reform, build buffers and make them more sustainable. I will continue to follow the Minister in the coming period. What I asked him was how we were preparing for a crisis and what we learned from the last time. I think it's a bit grim for the second term, but maybe it's okay for the minister to study it and come back to it around Prince's Day. I asked three specific questions. The first concerned the justification of the 900 million gas and the 350 million in 2021. I look forward to seeing them, with the references to that Central Economic Plan and the calculations as they are in the actual response. The second was about the student estimates. What the Minister said, I think I blinked for a moment at that time is that his predecessors had looked at that too and that there was probably a good reason for that. If this was on another subject, I would like to have a comment here on the delayed effects of such a setback on the student estimate or a multiannual average, so that it is distributed more evenly, or with what other efforts this minister is involved in this research. I am very looking forward to the feedback of the conversation he will have with his colleague for Legal Protection about the famous Q. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u222	Thank you. Then Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We started the Minister's first term with a surprising communication on the inheritance tax and we still do not know how it stands. I wonder if we can get any more information on this in the second term, otherwise I will see that we will have to discuss it tomorrow or next week. Mr. Chairman. In fact, all the groups have asked questions about the deal with Shell and Exxon and also about how the reduction in gas extraction is actually covered. That is a sign, because that means that all colleagues have questions about exactly what it is like. I must say that I have really got the impression, even in this debate, that Minister Kamp has really gotten the free hand in mainly that deal with Shell and Exxon. The Chamber is not involved in advance and has not been able to exercise its influence by means of parliamentary reservations. The Minister of Finance refers to his colleague for Economic Affairs in many questions, while it has enormous budgetary implications. The profit-paying scheme alone is 2.85 billion to 2022, and it's even more if you push it through to 2030. And then we are not talking about the liability for damage recovery, the reinforcement operation, the Council of Ministers meeting yesterday, and it is not yet clear what that is going to cost and all the other things that are still going on there. I really do, and I expect the Minister of Finance to know all about this and to check the legal position of the companies and the legal position of the State and to ensure that the taxpayer does not pay for it at the end of the day. I'm not so sure about that. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the cabinet is shielding with a possible claim from Shell and Exxon;]] [[noting that this claim is used by the Cabinet as justification for the sale price of 2.85 billion for Shell and ExxonMobil;]] [[whereas the House of Representatives has not received any information on this matter;]] [[asks the cabinet to share with the House of Representatives the underlying analyses, opinions and legal opinions of the national attorney on the probability and extent of a possible claim of Shell and Exxon,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer and Mr Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34960-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u224	Before you make such a deal, you must have done a really good analysis. The minister says they're here, but he won't say anything if you ask him exactly what's going on. I think it's the least you should know as a room. Mr. Chairman. I have another motion. It is more about the understanding that we have of all the resources spent in Groningen and for Groningen. We are already getting an insight at the request of GroenLinks, but I would also like it to be a separate budget item in the budget, after all. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the financial consequences of declining gas extraction in Groningen and the consequences for the province in the coming years will be felt;]] [[whereas the Court has so far been difficult to understand;]] [[calls on the Government to strengthen the Court's budgetary right by allocating a separate budget article to the extraction of gas in Groningen and its consequences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34960-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u226	Thank you. Then Mr Van Rooijen of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u227	Mr. Chairman. The pace is good. I thank the Minister for his reply. He's asking about numbers, about inflation. Can I give him through you the June estimate of the Planning Bureau, which shows that inflation is the full rate of inflation, so not the cleaned rate at the end of this year at 2%?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u228	That's what the Chamberkeeper receives for you, and he hands it over to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u229	Partly on that occasion, because I had of course already seen this, I will table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that inflation is likely to be higher than expected in 2017 and 2018, we know from 2017 and it is likely for 2018;]] [[Whereas the purchasing power is eroded by rising inflation;]] [[calls on the Government to put in place measures to at least respect the "purchasing power development for 2018 outlined in the Government Agreement,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34960-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u230	Mr. Chairman. The second motion concerns the elderly discount. The purchasing power of older people continues to lag behind those of workers in inflation. A catch-up is therefore well deserved. Firstly, we have tabled an amendment aimed at increasing the AOW by 2% in structural terms. Secondly, I will table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the purchasing power of pensioners is still under pressure compared to workers;]] [[Whereas the increase and phasing-out of the elderly discount agreed in the government agreement do not provide sufficient compensation;]] [[calls on the Government to increase the elderly discount for the year 2019 further and to further delay the reduction of the elderly discount compared to the plans in the government agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34960-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u231	Mr. Chairman. I'm not filing any motions, so I'm sure that'll save you. I noticed that I didn't get an answer to what I said and what I said about a earner. That's right, because I didn't ask a question about that. I have asked two more questions about a national subsidy scheme for drug waste and additional resources for water pollution. Now I'm going to assume that if you don't talk, you'll agree. So if the minister doesn't say anything more, I'm assuming it's gonna be okay. If that is not the case, I would like to hear from the Minister in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u232	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Azarkan of the DENK Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u233	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I'm a little shocked by the announcement of the umpteenth body from the Tax Office's closet. I also wonder how big that closet really is, because corpses keep coming out. I have listened carefully and the Minister has said that he does not rule out any further problems coming out. I spoke in particular about budget law. I thought the Minister's answer was a little small. He said, "Yes, God, America is so big, the United States is so big, they do everything differently." But I think they are doing well in some respects and we can take an example from time to time. Often we can't, but sometimes we can. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Chamber is able to re-vote only 1% of the Empire's budgets;]] [[Whereas the Court is lagging behind in information on the compilation of budgets, and budget law is essentially the nature of ex post approval;]] [[Whereas budget law could become more effective if the Court could be more proactive in considering the composition of the budget, as is the case in other countries;]] [[calls on the Bureau to consider how to strengthen the Court's financial function in relation to budgets, for example by setting up a Budget Office in addition to an Office for Legislation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34960-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u234	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u235	Mr President, thank you. Thank you again for the second-term questions and comments. Let me start with a few things I left behind. I shall start with two questions from Mrs De Vries. It asked first of all about the additional revenue for the Tax Administration in the 200 million and why it has not yet been used. For the sake of order, all the resources in the supplementary item will not be transferred until there are concrete plans. In total, 3.6 billion has been transferred to the departmental budget since the start of the cabinet in 2018. But that's the system. Here it is interesting that the system takes place inside me. It happens more often, but it is striking in the Tax Administration, especially in view of the problems. The Secretary of State has already explained the plans for the use of the remaining funds in the letter of the Chamber on re-innovation. He has indicated that these plans are not yet in the right rhythm. He has also reported that he thinks he needs a cash drawer for that. By the way, he's not the only one with regard to that cash drawer. What you see here is that it takes more time, for example to hire people. It's very practical what's behind it. Mrs De Vries then asked about the new budgetary rules and about the cyclical part of the WW and the assistance, which were removed from the expenditure framework. What happens if the estimates change again? That's how I understood her question. In the budget rules of this cabinet, we have decided that changes in unemployment and assistance expenditure which are not the result of policy choices are not part of the expenditure ceiling. This means that in the operationalization, difficult word, of the budgetary system, the expenditure ceiling is adjusted upwards or downwards with these changes. In the case of windfalls, the expenditure ceiling will be adjusted downwards. This will prevent these changes leading to budgetary space or problems. It is really about the distinction between policy and what is happening in the economic situation. A question from Mr Snels and, to a lesser extent, Mr Nijboer on budgetary law. I think I have just said a few things about this, but I still want to be very precise. I think this is exactly in line with what I said in the first term. Each minister may enter into an agreement on behalf of the State in respect of his or her own budget and policy area. This applies to small but also to large agreements which he or she concludes. We had a very detailed exchange of views in the cabinet and the Minister of EZK did the same to me. In a theoretical case where this would not have been done, an agreement concluded by a minister in his own policy area is valid and legally binding, even if the budget may not yet provide for this. That is the reality of state law. Compliance with that agreement may be enforced before the court by the other party. It's important to realize that. The government will then be obliged to comply with the agreement. Let me now turn to the matter of substantive budget law. If it is not possible to include the budgetary change in a budget law at the same time, the normal system is that the Chambers are informed by means of a letter. That is what the Minister of EZK did in his letter of 25 June. So that is also the interpretation of substantive budget law. In the end, I believe that I have said this in the first place. It is also the right of the Court of Justice to say this in a very precise manner. On the motions for resolutions, I shall return to Mrs Leijten's mandate and to Mrs Leijten's 7 million. In response to the letter I already promised Mr Azarkan, Mrs De Vries asked whether I could also split up and support the costs of LNV. That's what I'm gonna do with the help of the Ministry of LNV. Mr Snels asked for efficiency and effectiveness in a general sense. The same applies to the dividend tax. Yes, there will have to be a basis, as always, for the debate. That makes sense to me. Then there are the foreign students and the costs of the wo, to which Mr Slootweg referred. I'd like to get back to that. We are going so far in the field of OCW colleagues that I really need to look into that. Mr Sneller had three further comments. The first one concerned the justification. I thought I'd answered it mostly, no, completely. I have also indicated that we will come back to that in the Millions Note. His second point was about the student estimates and the moment he blinked. I have said that the Minister of OCW and I are already looking into the possibility of designing a new system. At the time when Mr Sneller may have blinked, I said: it is of course a luminous thought to investigate, but I do not rule out the fact that in the past people have sometimes wondered whether this could be done and then said that it is not ideal, but that there is nothing better than this. Anyway, we're gonna make that effort. I can't judge what it looks like or whether it's working. Thirdly, Mr Sneller wished me luck with the talks I am going to have with Mr Dekker in this case. I've had OCW's estimates. Now I'm going beyond the boundaries of my policy area by talking about drugs and water with the SGP. The first question is about drugs: some provinces seem to be starting to find pots for drug waste, but isn't it much more logical to introduce a national subsidy scheme? It is, of course, true what was said. It's very harsh when you're a landowner and you find misery on your property that belongs to someone else, has to do with things that are forbidden and people, animals and the environment also cause all kinds of damage, while the bill is yours. I can very well imagine the question from that inspiration. The responsibility for environment, environment and nature lies with the provinces. They just have a better view of the system, so I can't help it. Mr Stoffer also asked about water pollution. He has seen, I think, literally quote him 'with joy', that a legislative amendment is proposed for the Delta Fund and that water pollution is placed next to safety. But he noted that one should not be at the expense of the other. The Minister of IenW has indicated that he is preparing the possibilities of the legislative amendment for the Delta Fund. I myself am in agreement with her on that. To temper the expectations somewhat: such a legislative change process takes on average a year or one, two, so we have to buy a little bit more time for that. Mr. Chairman. I had already answered Mr Sneller's OCW question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u236	One more question from Mr Stoffer, briefly, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u237	That a law amendment lasts one or two years is a very sharp one. I am concerned that the resources for water pollution should not be at the expense of the resources for water safety. My question is to look at the budget at a later date to see whether this fund can be specifically filled and whether more funds can be made available in the run-up to it than the EUR 20 million that is now being made available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u238	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I must, of course, operate with caution so that I&W's colleague does not mow the grass in front of his feet or put it in a difficult position in advance. Specifically, the Minister of IenW has two times 10 million, for 2019 and 2020, from the Delta Fund for the so-called spatial adaptation. Any additional expenditure will have to be found within the existing resources, as we all do in the cabinet. So it's not like there's just any extra money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u239	So the answer at the moment is very flat: no, unless we find something with cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u240	Searching and then finding everyone is of course free, but I want to be exactly about this. Next thing you know, after a ministerial council like this, I'm gonna be a few euros lighter. You understand my caution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u241	That was indeed my intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u242	This is, of course, up to Mr Stoffer and to the dialogue, in which he is undoubtedly very effective. At some point in the development of this dialogue, the Minister meets me again. Then I'll tell you what I say to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u243	You're moving on. Are we going to the motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u244	I think the amendments first, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u245	Whatever you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u246	I am the first to have the amendment to item No. 5 (34960-VI) by Mr Mulder's group on the police. I'm gonna have to advise against that. The cabinet already invests heavily in the police, rising to 291 million structurally. Mr Van Nispen's and Mrs Leijten's amendments on justice and legal aid (34960-VI, No. 4) I must advise against. I have to say, in my view, cover from surplus is not cover. Mr Van Rooijen has tabled an amendment (34960-XV, No. 4) which states that the AOW will be increased by around 2% in the year 2018. I have to advise against that, too. I didn't see any cover there either. I do not think it would be desirable for this to be at the expense of the EMU balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u247	A question from Mrs Leijten, briefly and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u248	It's bullshit that it's not cover. It is not cover according to the rules imposed by the Minister on the Chamber and accepted by the Chamber with 76 seats.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u249	Again, in a period of time but which has been completed on 26 or 27 October, at the swearing-in of the new cabinet, four negotiating parties have established rules on all kinds of expenditure and on budgetary systems and discipline. Those rules, which four parties have agreed with each other, rely on a majority in this house. I've got it to run. It's not just me that's loved it. I am also committed to keeping colleagues in the cabinet to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u250	Very briefly, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u251	I am fine with the Minister saying that he does not think that this is in line with good budgetary rules. But he says there's no money, or there's no cover, while there's 3.8 billion left. This government doesn't think it's important to do anything about the late payment for the social lawyer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u252	That's not a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u253	That's the best answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u254	Very good. We will continue to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u255	I have a question. The Minister said that he does not feel that much if this is at the expense of the EMU balance, which is rising again. If we provide structural cover, what is the Minister's opinion? Of course, we have been kept to that. If the minister doesn't like this cover, we'll come up with another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u256	Then Mr Van Rooijen will have to find a majority in this Chamber for his proposal for cover. If he is already able to find a majority, the cabinet will have to carry out the motion. That's what state law is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u257	No, it's not a motion. It's an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u258	Excuse me, Mr Van Rooijen is quite right. It's an amendment. I would advise against this, because it does not tolerate the agreements I have signed. That's what I'm saying on behalf of the entire cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u259	For the sake of clarity, if the purchasing power of pensioners has been lagging behind for years, especially in relation to workers, but also in absolute terms, then it is perfectly fair to make a structural increase once, even though the AOW increases have actually been delayed through the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u260	Fine. We have two further amendments to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u261	And different political parties make different choices. That is the reality. At least we agree on that. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 4 (34960-B), tabled by Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Leijten, which provides for an increase of 70 million in the budget for social work. Here again, the budget surplus is not covered. I must therefore advise against this amendment. I am therefore in favour of Amendment No 2. 4 (34960-VIII), tabled by Mr Alkaya and Ms Leijten, proposing to reverse the occasional 7 million discount on the 2018 practical learning scheme. I should also advise against this amendment. I found it intriguing that this amendment also looked at the in=terminal. It is true that the literal letter of the coalition agreement opposes the in=terminal, but also clearly opposes the spirit of that mission. And not only the letter, but also the spirit of the budgetary rules I will soon have to guard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u262	Very good. Then we have had all the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u263	So the Minister says: we are creating a jar of 225 million and we will tell you exactly how we are dealing with it later, but the Chamber is not allowed to get there. Our budget law has already been severely curtailed by the budgetary rules, but now the cabinet has created itself some sort of spillover pot and we cannot get to it. I think that's a little weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u264	I'd almost say, if only it were true. This is in complete transparency. All these agreements are exactly as they were made by the majority of the Chamber. I would like it to have been made up, but a very logical part of the system that we have in the field of budgeting. The moment to fill in the deadline for a task for the Minister of Finance.... may vary over the year, as Mr Sneller and I have just exchanged. It is certainly not illogical to complete a first piece of this task at the beginning of the year. That's what happened. Here again, Mrs Leijten's preference for other choices is entirely up to her. I respect and appreciate that, but we must not give the impression that there would be a game that only the cabinet could have. The opposite is true. There's just a crystal clear logic to have the in=terminal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u265	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u266	In the spirit of budgetary rules, this would not be coverage. I think I'm paraphrasing the minister about exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u267	About exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u268	Perhaps I have just turned a word, but in the spirit of budgetary rules it is not cover. This means that the budgetary rules say: the Chamber must not get the surplus; we tell everyone that there is more money, but we are cutting down on 40,000 placements for young people. If we say that there is a surplus in the budget and that we can get something out of it, then the Minister says that the Chamber must not get there either. Does the Minister take seriously at all that the Chamber may have wishes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u269	Yeah, extraordinary. Mrs Leijten should certainly know that, because in the previous debate I also left an amendment by her hand to the opinion of the Chamber. So it has not been so long since I have been able to express this not only in words, but also effectively. I have also said that there are two questions. The first question is whether it can be done according to the budgetary system. The second question is whether it is desirable, also in view of the agreements that a majority in this House can count on. That's life.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u270	To quote a phrase from the Minister: I think we need to be very precise here. I do not think this goes against the budgetary rules and not against the budgetary system, not against the government agreement and not against what the majority of the Chamber has laid down in the budgetary rules. What is, of course, involved is that I give the Minister that it is the power of the Minister to give effect to the mandate. However, within the agreed budgetary rules, the Chamber can say to the Minister: we would like to use this cover for the 7 million for the MBO. I think we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u271	I sometimes try to make the words that Mr Snels says mine. It's nice to see that this turns out to be reciprocal. Again, what Mr Snels is saying is almost exactly what I am saying. The in=is-terminal is not meant to pick something out of it and then do something else with it. That is where I distinguish between the letter and the spirit of the budgetary rules laid down in the government agreement. The question of whether you want to spend the money on it is a political question. My opinion is that this does not bear on the agreements made by the coalition parties. The only way to test whether it can count on a majority here is to table the amendment and get the House to vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u272	Clear. Can we get to the motions? Just a little short, then, Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u273	The conclusion is, then, just as simple: it is not against the budgetary rules. It may be undesirable, and I understand that from the Minister of Finance, but the Chamber can consider this within the budgetary system itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u274	No. I do not know if there is a precedent, but at least it is an exceptional figure who is difficult or unbearable with the spirit of budgetary rules. That's one. Two: the substantive weighting, the political weighting, is up to this house, but my opinion, that I should express on the amendment, is to discourage it. I assume that Mr Snels is going to test what will ultimately be the verdict of the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the motions. I shall begin with Mr Mulder's motion on item No. 3 which calls on the government to immediately deploy 2 billion of the budget surplus to reduce rents. I'm gonna have to dissuade him, because I don't have any cover. I see the purchasing power in August. Mr Mulder's motion for a resolution 4 on the Greek loans I must also advise against, because it is not feasible either. As far as Greece is concerned, we are participating in a multilateral support programme. The motion in part No. 5 on the Council of State, I really must be dissuaded. That is precisely why I wanted to clarify in detail what is going on with the Compatibility Act and budget law. It may be difficult, but it is quite clear how it is organized this country. So I'm going to have to dissuade that motion. The motion in part No. 6 is also about the Compatibility Act. It's Mr. Snels'. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. There will be a statement of reasons. There will also be a debate in the autumn. The motion in part No. I must advise against Mr Leijten's 7, because there is no... Mrs. Leijten. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u275	Mr. Snels, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u276	I'm practicing gender-neutral, but that's not quite working out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u277	I was a little surprised by the fact that I didn't recommend my motion on the Compatibility Act and the dividend tax. I think this is exactly what the minister himself is the keeper of. In fact, it seems perfectly logical to me that the Compatibility Act should be applied in this way to abolish the dividend tax. So I don't quite understand why that motion is being denied.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u278	I think Mr Snels is referring to the motion in part No. 6. I advise it because it's just wise to follow the normal process. There will be a normal explanatory statement and there will be a normal debate in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u279	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u280	But this is about the following. We have a new Article 3.1 Compatibility Act. This concerns objectives, efficiency and effectiveness. Especially in the case of a measure costing 1.6 billion by now, it seems to me that the Minister of Finance, although it is now his own department, is going to apply this article very precisely to abolishing the dividend tax. That is what this motion is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u281	We are doing this bill, which is indeed very interested in the Chamber, exactly what we are doing with other legislative proposals. Mr Snels knows the house where I walk well enough to know that this will lead to a discussion between Finance 1 and Finance 2. This will be about the basis and whether we consider this to be sufficiently effective. He smiles, but he knows that it is done extremely seriously, especially in that discussion between the two sections.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u282	Yes, now I see Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Nijboer coming forward. Can't we go to another room or something? 'Cause I should have been done an hour and a half ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u283	It's not me, Mr. Chairman. You understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u284	I should also like to limit it to the authors of the motions. There's a hell of a pile. If we start a wide-ranging social debate on each motion, we will be here tonight. Do you mind if I skip you, Mr. Van Rooijen? It is, isn't it? You're okay with that, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u285	No, Mr. Chairman. If you don't mind...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u286	Just one brief announcement, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u287	My question is whether the Minister would like to take his own motion from the Senate, which I have co-signed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u288	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u289	The Minister asks all departments to do this, and he refuses to do so for the most controversial measure of his own department.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u290	Fine. The motion in part No. 7.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u291	No, I want to drink the poison cup completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u292	Well, that's a good thing for you, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u293	I say to all former employees of the Ministry of Finance and all the members present here: the Compliance Act asks for a review by the Ministry of Finance of any bill from each of its colleagues, including in the methodology of Finance 1. That's exactly what we're gonna do. I'm not gonna take an inch off that. It's the review we always do internally. Then there will be an explanatory statement and a debate. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. Seven, I'm dissuading because of no cover. You don't want any social reflections, so I'll stick to that, Mr. Chairman. The same applies to the motion in part No. 8. I fully understand the idea behind this motion by Mrs Leijten and Mrs Beckerman, but I believe that we are really trying to resolve it and I cannot commit to it in this way. So I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u294	Mrs. Leijten, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u295	The request in the motion in part No. 7 to the government, so to this minister, is to free up money by 2019. The Minister has an in-and-out pot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u296	Terms of employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u297	Yes. He's the one who's gonna talk about how that's gonna be filled out. The Chamber may not amend, but may make a request. He could use that jar, couldn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u298	It would all be my money... You did not want any more broad reflections, Mr President, but I think it is really crucial that I agree with Mrs Leijten to ensure that children do not get too fat, because they are often attached to them for the rest of their lives. Of course, moving is a very important part of it, by the way, or perhaps even more, than the food they get to eat at home. As sympathetic as I like the motion, I can't free up any money, especially if it's an uncovered check, because I don't serve uncovered cheques.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u299	Clear. Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u300	Rules are rules and beyond do not look at social needs and consequences I find very significant for this minister. That applies to the whole debate. See also the motion in part No. 8. People who have €1,000 too much in their accounts because they have not yet made a certain item of expenditure have to pay back €1,500 in surcharges because they have received compensation. A lot of damages schemes fall under the special assets, for example a scheme due to sexual abuse in the Roman Catholic Church or if you are a victim of the Volendam fire...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u301	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u302	Surely the Minister could use the space to at least investigate whether people who have been given money to strengthen their homes or solve earthquake damage could also be included? That's not such a crazy question, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u303	It's not a crazy question either. I did not object at all to Mrs Leijten's introductory remarks, but I will not be too inspired by them. It's not a crazy question, but I think we're doing the maximum in all reasonableness. The colleague of EZK also does the maximum towards the province. It is not appropriate for me to give this motion a different opinion in this debate than 'dissuade'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u304	You're not a petitioner, Mr. Snels. You got an app that you'd like to read?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u305	No, I checked the Compliance Act, Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, the Minister should simply abide by his own laws. He just said that Finance 1 and Finance 2 had a test on the Compatibility Act and that there would then be an explanatory statement and a debate. However, after the amendment of the Compatibility Act, Article 3.1 calls for objectives, efficiency and effectiveness to be justified in the explanatory statement. It's in the law. It seems to me that the motion I tabled calls on the Minister to abide by the law, especially when it comes to abolishing dividends.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u306	Now Mr Snels is actually explaining that his motion is superfluous. It's either one or the other. I've been talking about the review that's taking place at the Ministry itself. That's not a public document, we do it with every law. During last week's legislative consultation and a little less detail during this debate, we discussed it. We started it. The number of calls I receive from colleagues asking whether they can do without that test has been reduced rapidly. So that reality has been reconciled. There are undoubtedly still learning effects on how to do this better. That's one way. On the other hand, the explanatory memorandum also deals with the efficiency and effectiveness of expenditure. That's just the normal trajectory. If Mr Snels says that he is only asking what is in the law, I may have read the motion a little too carefully. But in that case, the motion is denied judgment because it is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u307	One: it is not a normal situation, because it is a new article, which only entered into this year. Two: the law says it has to be in the explanatory statement. I think that is the misunderstanding between me and the Minister, and I have tried to clarify that. The explanatory memorandum should contain: Article 3.1 Objectives, effectiveness and efficiency. Because we expect the abolition of the dividend tax to be included in a package of measures, I ask in the motion to pass the dividend tax separately through that Article 3.1 test.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u308	Mr Snels and I regularly pull on the same side of the rope, but we haven't found each other here yet. I'll come to the motion in part No. 9. That really is a motion intended for the Minister of EZK, I think. I could very well imagine him saying "I should advise against this," because the country's attorney's advice is for internal cabinet council. I would suggest to the House that we discuss the motion with him tomorrow. This is really about his wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u309	I will do that. I really disagree with the Minister. If it is so big money, I think the Minister of Finance should really be aware of these arguments and considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u310	Mr Nijboer is also selective in his presentation of what happened in the second term. I have been closely involved and have, of course, taken note of and provided input for the advice of the national attorney, the questions involved, etc. etc. Three: it's been a basket of reasons. Mr Nijboer drew one thing out in his second term. I believe that Mr Wiebes wanted to opt for as much transparency as possible. He's changed that with the Chamber before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u311	Then the motion to part No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u312	Mr Nijboer's motion for a resolution 10 deals with the budget classification of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. I personally do not see the added value of a separate budget article. I'd like to leave this with him, and if he's wildly excited, I'd like to discuss it with him, but in that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u313	Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u314	I'll keep the motions on the items Nos. 9 and 10 until after the debate on gas extraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u315	At the request of Mr Nijboer, I propose his motions for resolutions (34960, Nos. 10 and 9). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u316	Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 11 by Mr Van Rooijen on inflation. Thanks for the state, but that was of course part of the discussion; it is a projection. I've tried to explain that it's a more complex subject. I can already see Mr Van Rooijen gloating that he feels the same way, but I must advise against the motion, with all due appreciation for the search and with all the agreement between him and me that inflation can be put to good use.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u317	My thoughts can often be guessed by the Minister, but he may not be able to read my face completely yet. In the June estimate, the Planning Bureau says it estimates inflation at 2% in 2018. That is almost a doubling compared to earlier this year. I agree with the Minister that it has yet to be seen in practice, but I am assuming that this estimate could be made. On that basis, therefore, there is a decline in purchasing power. We ask the Minister and the Cabinet to take measures to this end. That's what we're asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u318	But that's exactly where we walk off the rails here. Let me take the previous cabinet. I am truly convinced that the previous cabinet wanted to do everything in its power to improve purchasing power in the final phase. There was also a projection that had all the sizes of probability you could hope for. Next, inflation has been ruined. That happens! What the motion demands is that I undertake to realise the development that we are about to get. I simply cannot do that, and I think Mr Van Rooijen will understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u319	The Minister also knows that tax measures can of course only take place next year. In the autumn it will be much clearer. When we discuss the Tax Plan in November, it is much clearer whether that estimate will be made. I assume that this is the case, and in that context I ask the Minister to take account of it well into account in November if that estimate remains so. We are therefore talking about the fact that this will have to be done at the latest by amending the Tax Plan. I also indicate that De Nederlandsche Bank indicated a week or three ago that inflation will go to 2.5% in 2019. The Dutch Bank, three weeks ago! Those are very hard-core figures about much higher inflation. How do we arrive at this estimate? This is because we are now finally increasing wages in the Netherlands, also at the request of foreign countries. The Minister is also confronted with this in Brussels, because this increase is good for the whole of Europe. By the way, it is bad for the pensioners here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u320	We're finally getting wages up? We have often exchanged that it would be good if wages were to rise. Now that is happening and let us not gloom about it. The point is that the motion before us says: calls on the government to come up with measures to ensure that at least the purchasing power development outlined in the coalition agreement for 2018 is now coming up with the key words! (Parliament agreed to the request for urgent I would like to say to Mr Van Rooijen that we are going to look again at that balance when we are dealing with the August decision-making process. He knows that kind of decision-making like no other. Then we will review all the groups again and we will really look for a balance, as the cabinet is constantly looking for that balance, even though it is only knowing which four parties this cabinet is in. But that is something other than being able to agree to this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u321	I'd like to move on to the motion on part No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u322	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u323	I would like to continue, Mr Van Rooijen, because the room is now full of people who have to do the next debates. There's a whole pile of VAOs that need to be done today. Mr. Van Rooijen, do you agree that we should proceed to your own motion in part number. 12 go? Oh, yeah. Thank you for your cooperation. The motion in part No. 12!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u324	Mr President, I understand that I cannot therefore count on this interest being the quality of my answers. The motion in part No. 12, I have to dissuade. The operative part of the motion calls again for an additional intensification without cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u325	Mr Van Rooijen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u326	Mr President, these are my own motions. I think the Minister did a little bit, but would the Minister say more clearly that the poor purchasing power development is being taken seriously into account in the preparation of the Tax Plan? I predict there will be, but I can't prove it yet. If we are two or three months away, are there adequate measures to ensure that the coalition agreement is absolutely respected in this respect? That's all we're asking. All we're asking is that it doesn't get any worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u327	The type of phrase "we don't ask any more" suggests that it is a perfectly reasonable question...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u328	Yeah, you got that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u329	...and it's not. I cannot promise that purchasing power will develop in a certain way, even if it is for the group that Mr Van Rooijen is most concerned with. What I can promise him, and what I just promised him, is that in August, the cabinet will rebalance the effects on the various groups. I can promise him that, certainly not less, but no more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u330	The last word is for Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u331	Wages for workers are rising. Pensioners do not receive an increase in pensions. There's even a threat of discounts. Then it is absolutely reasonable for the government to take measures in case inflation rises and the purchasing power collapses? I would ask the Minister to take these measures with a moving insight if those facts come to light. I'm not saying that's for sure right now, because I don't know that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u332	The Prime Minister taught me on my first course that I should never answer questions like Dan. But apart from that, I say about the content: no. Purchasing power is an estimate and we all hope it will happen. For example, we are satisfied that there is still more insight into it and now some evidence that wages are developing better. But of course, I can't commit to something like that. I can promise that the cabinet will strive for balance and that it will do so in the decision-making process in August, but I simply cannot promise Mr Van Rooijen and I cannot promise, not only with regard to the elderly but not with regard to any group, that if the estimate develops differently from what we all want, I will come through with immediate measures for any particular group. I hope Mr Van Rooijen understands that of me in all courtesy and friendship.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u333	Very good. We're going to the motion in part no. 13 by Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u334	Mr President, on that point, I think it is with sardonic pleasure that you said that it was not up to me. We exchanged more about state law today. You know I care about that subject anyway. But I'm not expected to do anything. I therefore await the opinion of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u335	That is a credit to you, and there is another amendment tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and others, which is a replacement. So it has changed a little, I understand. The signature is from Jasper van Dijk, Leijten and Van Rooijen. It is the amendment in part No. 5, amendment of the budget statement of the Municipal Fund for the year 2018. It's the same substance, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u336	The figure we are now threatening to get is that I am being souffled by GroenLinks to dissuade it because it has no cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u337	It's all well-meant!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u338	It's well-meant, and if it is, I have to agree to it immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u339	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u340	Then I'll have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u341	It's an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u342	The amendment, Mr President. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u343	Very good. So far. It's been fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-04-tweedekamer-9.u344	Tomorrow we will vote on the five amendments and all the motions. Thank you to the Minister for his presence today. I'll suspend for a single moment and then we'll continue with the VAO flight safety.
