ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u1	The next item is the debate on the Marrakesh Immigration Pact. I welcome the Secretary of State for Justice and Security and give Mr Baudet the floor as the first speaker on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. Speaking time is six minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u2	Mr. Chairman. I went into politics because I want to prevent this country from going to hell. I have gone into politics because I want to serve the interests of the people of this country, including those of the next generations. Because I saw that the incumbents did not do so and that our country sold out to the European Union, to managers, to bureaucrats and, above all, to uncontrolled numbers of immigrants. I saw how they didn't want to stand up for our values from The Hague in any way, for our culture, for our way of life, our freedoms. I saw how Islam settled in the Netherlands, with all its problems, with values and cultural concepts that are completely at odds with our own. I saw that and together with the other people from Forum for Democracy I have moved to try to stop it. The controversial immigration pact which the government intends to sign in Marrakesh on 10 December will open the borders even further. It gives both legal and illegal immigrants a whole range of rights which they do not yet have and which they will soon be able to enforce in the Netherlands. It is an encouragement for people throughout Africa and the Middle East to venture the crossing. It is an irreversible choice that now follows. Because once signed, the Marrakech Immigration Pact can no longer be terminated. Once we have declared support, cancellation is not the issue, according to the Secretary of State in his reply to FvD's questions. So future generations are also attached to it forever. As has already been said, the Pact contains a set of rights for both legal and illegal immigrants. Regardless of their status, it states, they have the right to wait for expulsion in freedom, so we cannot secure them and they will disappear to a great extent in illegality. They have the right to basic services such as bed, bath, bread, the right to legal aid, the right not to be deported collectively, the right not to be prosecuted for the use of smugglers, etc. Meanwhile, the Netherlands must facilitate financial transactions, make benefits more accessible, encourage family reunification and ensure that the media have positive reports on immigration. Migration, according to the Pact, is a source of prosperity, innovation and sustainable development. The goal is: to enhance migration. And: to expand the pathways for migration. That is to say: intensifying, increasing, increasing immigration. Not a word about the conflicts and tensions that immigration creates. About the alienation people experience when they don't know their neighborhood anymore. The feeling of being abandoned when the police are overwhelmed by crime and unable to work on yet another assault, robbery, rape or intimidation. If your children are bullied at school because they have pork on their bread or have to go on excursion to the mosque and kneel there before Allah. No, nothing about that in this pact. Just that we need to expand the paths of migration. How do you make it up? How is it possible to produce such a text in 2018? Also at VVD and CDA they are ashamed of it, it seems. That is why a debate was held three times. That is why they hoped to pass it unseen. When it came to a debate, it was said that it was not legally binding. It's okay. We'll sign it. But it's just to stay in conversation, not to get on the sidelines. It's for diplomacy. Meanwhile, the signatories in Article 41 promise to implement the rights granted to immigrants and make them national laws. The United Nations may take stock of progress every few years. If this is not done, asylum lawyers can use this Marrakesh Pact to go to court and enforce compliance. That's not just speculation from me. This is what we have seen over the past few decades in numerous international treaties and agreements, and what many lawyers and diplomats have also argued in recent weeks. It is also the reason why more than 15 countries have announced that they will not travel to Marrakesh and that they will not sign this controversial pact. These are countries such as Austria, Hungary, Poland, Estonia, the Czech Republic, Israel, the United States, Switzerland, Italy, Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, immigration is the biggest problem of our time. In recent decades too many people have come to Europe in an uncontrolled manner. The survival of our way of life, of our culture and of our freedoms depends on the extent to which we manage to deal with immigration and integration problems. Learning disadvantages in education. Aggression against women on the street. Intolerance against gays, Jews and other minorities. Insecurity in general. Overburdening the welfare state. Overuse of medical care. Press the housing offer. Islamization. Terrorism. Conflicts in the workplace. Endlessly chanting about the Sinterklaas Festival and other traditions of our country. Forced marriage. Women's circumcision. Loyalty disputes with the police, the military and other public bodies. The list of problems associated with mass and uncontrolled immigration from Africa and the Middle East is inexhaustible. Inexhaustible. While this cabinet set an absolute record in the past year with 235,000 people who were allowed to come to this country, it now also wants to open an invitation to all of Africa to take the first step. Mr. Chairman. This is about the most unwise thing we can do right now. Inlay or not, good intentions or not: the Marrakech Immigration Pact will directly or indirectly find its way to national regulations and court rulings and extradite our country to an unmanageable influx of immigrants. Supporting this pact will deprive future generations of the opportunity to tackle the current problems because it will once again bring about a huge load of new problems for us. Supporting this pact is one of the most irresponsible things you can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u3	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. Everyone has six minutes; you have six minutes. You've been over it a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u4	The SP is also critical of this immigration pact; let that be clear. We do not particularly like the passages on economic migration. However, I strongly distance myself from the ghost images that Mr Baudet calls here as if the Netherlands were to fill up with migrants from 12 December. You can't make that happen on the basis of this pact. I would like to ask Mr Baudet whether he does not see one positive point in these more than 30 pages, for example in terms of improving the return of migrants. Migrants who have been rejected in the Netherlands now hardly go back to their country of origin. Does Mr Baudet see any positive points in this pact?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u5	Indeed, there are some comments in this pact that you think are in mid-term and sub-term terms: well, it would be nice if those countries would do that. But the core of the pact is that we have to focus on it. The objective is 5: to enhance migration, to expand the pathways for migration. I would also like to draw attention to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who also stated in an explanation of this pact that it should be 'to emphasize the benefits of migration'. The whole pact is written in a spirit of pro migration. It reads like an advertising leaflet for smugglers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u6	Occasionally an English term is allowed, but in general it is simply spoken in Dutch, so I would like to appeal to you to quote this kind of quote in Dutch as well. You're good at that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u7	It is an English-language document, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u8	Yeah, it was supposed to be translated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u9	Mr President, you are of course right that we need to speak Dutch here, but I note that the translation of this pact has not been made. We only have an English text. I'm sorry about that. So if you want to quote, you're gonna come out with English. Anyway, back to the content. Mr Baudet was the last to mention the issue of smuggling. I find that extremely painful. Every time we see images of people being smuggled for high sums of money and then all too often end up in miserable situations in the Mediterranean. This pact is trying to do the same. I see a great deal of risk in this pact, but does Mr Baudet, regardless of any objections, see that it is also trying to deal with these horrible situations in the Mediterranean?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u10	The road to hell is paved with good intentions. There may be those intentions, but the outcome of this pact will be the opposite. Article 25 provides that people who come to Europe illegally through smugglers must no longer be prosecuted for this. So you're actually giving a pass. You say, "From now on, you can do this." In addition, many more people will get on those boats because you give an open invitation to Africa and list all those rights. So you're gonna wake it up. You create a situation where it pays to take that risk. What you have to do is say, we don't take in anyone who comes here illegally. Australia has done the same; that's why Australia doesn't want to sign it. If you say that, that influx will stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u11	Moreover, Article 25 deals with the victims of human trafficking, but Mr Baudet often reads carelessly. What I wanted to ask him...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u12	No, wait a minute. "Victims of human trafficking"? They're people...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u13	Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Baudet a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u14	But this is an important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u15	He makes all kinds of assumptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u16	You can't just say...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u17	Mr. Baudet, you'll get...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u18	It's about people who use smugglers, hire them. They're called "victims," but they do it themselves, don't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u19	Mr. Baudet, are you listening to the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u20	Sure, but this is an important point. It's not about victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u21	Yes, everything is important, but just for a moment: if Mr Groothuizen asks his question, you will have the opportunity to respond. Mr. Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Baudet makes all sorts of assumptions. He assumes that judges will explain this in a certain way in the future. He assumes that other countries, such as countries in Africa, will not participate in this. Can Mr Baudet explain exactly what he is basing these assumptions on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u23	That's a good question. I'm glad you're asking this question. Take, for example, the extensive report of the Raoul Wallenberg Institute. This is a very renowned institute that conducts international legal analyses. This report was written by Thomas Hansen, professor at Oxford University. He's analyzing how that soft law, as I call it, works. He writes, among other things, "The Global Compact for Migration will have a considerable normative impact on the field of international law, desperate its non-binding status." Despite the fact that it would not be formally binding, it will therefore have a huge impact. He continues: "It is bound to become an important soft law instrument, whither the drifting states intent it or not." Here's how it goes. As it becomes part of international customary law, it will be applied by judges. You get ongoing trial trials where asylum lawyers try to move judges to impose aspects of this treaty. And once it's happened somewhere, it's going to have a precedent effect and it's going to happen elsewhere. Gradually, therefore, it will be stretched further and further. That's part one. Part two is that Articles 41 and 42 of the Global Compact simply require countries to implement it. So it is not directly binding, but you really have to compare it with an EU directive. The EU adopts directives, which countries will then have to transpose into national legislation. That's exactly the way it is with the Global Compact. This is just gonna find its way to national case law and at least to national law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u24	I am glad that Mr Baudet is giving this answer, because once again he is giving the wrong explanation. Article 41 does not say at all that it should be transposed into national legislation. It says you have to do it. That also makes sense when you make diplomatic agreements with each other; you don't do that for nothing. But Mr Baudet will not find the word 'legislation' in that. I'm gonna ask the question again. Baudet can quote from all sorts of reports, but how do you know how a judge will apply something in the future? I've been in court for 12 years and I usually didn't know at the beginning of a case what the court was gonna do in that concrete case. Mr Baudet cannot know that at all. So I would like to ask him: take those words back; do not speculate here and do not unnecessarily frighten people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u25	Article 41 states: 'implement'. What do you think "to implement" means other than that you are converting it into national laws and regulations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u26	It means you have to do it. But that doesn't mean, as you say, that you have to turn it into national regulations. That's exactly the fake image...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u27	That's not true at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u28	...that you give every time. You weren't the only one, by the way. But it doesn't say you have to turn it into national regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u29	"To implement" just means that you will convert it into national laws and regulations. "Execute" is "execute" in English. It could be. You could take that, too. But it doesn't say that. It says "application." That just means you're gonna give it up in your national legal order. How we know what judges are going to do, how we can predict what's going to happen in court, that's a matter of logical thinking. That is entirely in line with expectations. This is going to happen once, not only because it will be enforced from the Netherlands or not, but also because of the international. We are also bound by what European judges think and what judges of the European Court of Human Rights think. The view of these courts on immigration is absolutely clear: in all areas, really in all areas, from the expulsion of expatriated people, to whether or not they are allowed to apply for asylum, to how you deal with criminal offences committed during the asylum procedure and so on, European judges have taken a pro-immigration position. That's what's gonna happen now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u30	I believe that this is a crucial point in this debate. Mr Baudet makes all kinds of assumptions, and when you ask, he says: that's logical thinking, that's going to happen. It's a thin story. It's a populist story. It's a story that only scares people with some kind of enemy image. And the only answer Mr Baudet has is that we must act hard everywhere, because the world will look different. That's a world in which everyone fights against everyone. That doesn't make the world any better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u31	No, the core of the Pact is Objective 5. It simply says that migration is seen as a source of prosperity, innovation and positive development. That is also the purpose for which it was drawn up. It's about "to expand" and "hands" and "pathways for migration." That's what it's all about. And then the states are said to implement this, and that can be done through national laws and regulations or, if not, through the courts. You may say "Mr. Baudet sees ghosts" or whatever, but this is just what logically follows what is written here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u32	Mr Baudet asked whether this debate still makes sense. I ask myself the same question when I hear Mr Baudet like that. He's asked 100 questions. He has received an answer to that, in which all kinds of theories he is doing here today have all been pushed aside. But apparently that's totally irrelevant, not all true, all gone. My question remains: what then? Why would they have asked Western countries in particular after the major migration crisis to find a solution to this misery at UN level? Why would they have done that, when they then receive an answer which, according to Mr Baudet, is grand and compelling?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u33	Because, to our tragedy, Mrs Van Toorenburg, we are ruled by people who cannot do it, who do not serve the interests of our countries, who are confused by all kinds of international career ambitions and conferences, who are practicing world citizenship and who think that, if you go to Morocco on your knees, the Moroccan king will take over his heart and take in all those people who he no longer wants to take in, those who have been tried out and who we want to expel. We're being ruled. It's very tragic to see that by people who can't do it, by a bunch of losers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u34	Okay. The whole world is a weakling. Fine, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u35	No, not the whole world. No, no, not the whole world.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u36	I was still talking, I thought, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u37	You can see in America that there is now someone in power who understands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u38	Mr. Baudet! It's not your turn. It's not gonna work out between us tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u39	The night's still early.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u40	I sometimes have a problem with Mr. Baudet, Madam President. If the whole world is ruled by a bunch of weaklings... We have thought that we must curb migratory flows and take action. The world then comes together to see what a solution might be. Then there will be a pact of this kind that we can find; I can understand that with a whole range of solutions: tackling human trafficking, ensuring that other countries take better care of their own nationals, ensuring that the push factors, i.e. the factors why people leave, are addressed, ensuring that people are taken back by the countries and are accountable. All those things that are in here are obviously made up by suckers, but I think it's important that it happens. My question to Mr Baudet is: what then? Then what is his solution to the major migration crisis that we have to deal with if this, conceived by a bunch of weak people, is apparently not the solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u41	That is a lot of points and comments at the same time. Firstly, it is clearly not the whole world. It's actually mostly Northwest Europe. There are a lot of countries that are not traveling to Marrakesh now because, rightly, they think that it will deprive them of all opportunities to restrict and control migratory flows. I have already mentioned the United States, but also Australia, Austria, Hungary, Poland, Estonia, the Czech Republic, Slovenia and Israel. Switzerland and Italy are on the verge. In Belgium there is now a cabinet crisis because they are scratching behind their ears and thinking: we should not do this. So it is certainly not the case that the whole world wants this and only the Democracy Forum is up against it. No, there's a clash of worldviews going on. There really is a fundamental ideological clash going on. On the one hand, you have the people who want to phase out the national states, who, like one of the authors of this pact, Peter Sutherland, think that the homogeneity of European countries is one of the greatest problems of our time. On the other hand, there are people like me, people like the people of the Forum for Democracy, but you can see them in countless countries. I call Kurz in Austria, for example, who say: no, we want to preserve our national identity and we do not want to gradually become world citizens in anonymous countries without cultural identity. That's what's going on here. What do you have to do? First of all, this certainly does not sign, because this is totally counterproductive in every respect. We advocate the introduction of what you call the Australian immigration model. As a country you say: we want to decide who comes here and we are not going to wait and see who comes here. So we're not going to give rights to people who come here illegally. We are closing the border in the Mediterranean. We'll just put down a fleet block. Nobody gets in there anymore. We decide who we let in and who we don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u42	Mr Baudet is a master in making small things mega-sized. There are a number of countries that are very concerned, so are the Netherlands. There are about 187 countries that say: let's make a fist with each other against unbridled immigration. Let's make sure there's shelter where the misery takes place. Let us work together to ensure that we do this properly, so that we have an answer for people who have fled and come to the Netherlands, for example. But Mr Baudet doesn't want to see anything like that. The only thing Mr Baudet wants to see is a number of phrases that he does not like. But he doesn't have the answer, other than putting a fleet in the Mediterranean and playing like we're Australia. I fear that we will not help the Netherlands in curbing the migration crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u43	That's why you're unfit to run this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u44	No, Mr. Baudet. Not this kind of personal accusation. No, you should not clap in the public gallery; absolutely not, really not. Someone's attacking you personally, too. Then it shouldn't do it to others. Then Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u45	I would like to say that I am glad that we finally have this debate, but I am disappointed in Mr Baudet's opening move, to put it that way. What's he doing so far? He's selectively quoting from the pact. He deliberately doesn't mention a number of things and some things consciously do. He is allowed to play in a well-known game about whether or not he is legally binding. If he is asked twice or three times by Mrs Van Toorenburg "what do you want?', Then he says, "I want to send the fleet to the Mediterranean." That is the most unrealistic, idiotic, dangerous and unworkable proposal I have heard in the migration debate in a long time. I am disappointed if that is what Mr Baudet can think of instead of the migration pact he is so opposed to. How realistic is Mr Baudet's plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u46	Mr Van Ojik blames me for not listening to him, but I think he listened very selectively to me. There are all kinds of things I call. The first one is not drawing this, because it gives you more migration. Then you're a whole lot further than where you are right now. Now you have a certain amount of immigration. If you're gonna sign this, it's gonna be more. So not drawing this is an improvement in itself. Then what do we want? What can easily be said is that we are not dealing with the application of anyone who comes in here illegally, so via a smuggler, a boat or whatever. Not! Australia has done the same and the influx of people stopped very quickly after that. Why? Because people who get on a boat like that make a conscious risk assessment. That risk weighting is: I have so much chance of getting there and then once I get there, it's incredibly likely that I can stay left-hand or right-hand, mostly left-hand, of course. And so they do. That's why they're taking that risk. If the chance is 100% that they can't stay, that there's just no way they're coming in, then they won't get on those boats either. That's another problem you're gonna solve. Does that mean, then, that was the third point I mentioned, namely that we are totally opposed to all forms of immigration? No, of course not. That is why we are advocating the Australian immigration model. We have made several animation videos about this and published several articles about it on our site. We have also talked about this very often here and in other places. It's up to us to decide who we're gonna let in. Those are people who bring something, who come to strengthen our society and not people who just come to get something. And then you cry out that I don't come up with solutions! I think that is a very lame way to conduct this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u47	Sending a fleet to the Mediterranean is a solution. I just think it's a completely idiotic, dangerous, non-working and unrealistic solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u48	Oh, that's what you're about to fall over, about the fleet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u49	That's not gonna happen. And what does Mr Baudet say? Let me give you another example, because Mr Baudet has just given us some other balloons. He says people who are illegal shouldn't come here. No, of course it is. Mr Baudet may know that 85% to 90% of the people who are currently crossing the Mediterranean come from countries where, if they apply for asylum here, they probably have no chance at all of getting asylum here. But these people will come. If you want to avoid that, you're gonna have to make international agreements. Mr Baudet overlooks that. He may be opposed to this pact, but the alternatives he proposes make no sense and are completely unrealistic. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u50	I really disagree with that. First of all... Once again, if you find the current situation a problem, you should absolutely not sign this pact, because this is the starting point: to encourage and expand migration. The fact that we are already entering into a discussion on my solutions is fine with me. In your view, Baudet's solutions may not be entirely convincing, but it is not the case that we should sign this pact. The current situation is better than the situation we would have if we signed this pact. That's point one. Second. You seem to be falling over that fleet blockade. I don't know where that fear of putting our soldiers into a meaningful mission comes from. With modern military technology without a lot of problems, you can incredibly monitor a very large stretch of sea and coastal strip and simply drag back boats that arrive. You have five kilometers of territorial waters. If you stay in there, you drag them back to the beach. Instead of dragging them back to Europe, we could drag them back to Africa, possibly in cooperation with the local coast guard and so on. There are many possibilities to stop things in the sea itself, so before they come to Europe. Then, if they might still arrive, you just bring them back. Then you say, "I'm sorry, you can't get into Europe like this." Ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u51	I wonder whether Mr Baudet wants to leave the European Union first and then send that fleet. 'Cause that seems kind of complicated to me; or around it or something? But that's not my question. I was just thinking that out loud. Mr Baudet once said in this Parliament the magic words that he would rather not participate in this debate, because that was beneath his dignity. He actually meant that people here have opinions beforehand, that they talk about that, but that they don't listen to each other. Mr Baudet behaves a bit like an eel in a bucket of snot. You're gonna have a hard time getting a hold of it. Is Mr Baudet prepared to listen to the arguments put forward by my fellow Members and, on that basis, to assess whether he can change his position?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u52	Listen. I have explained several times what I meant by "under my dignity." I meant this. You can see in many debates here, as in the general budget treatment, that it is a competition for flying catch for the stage. What is happening here is unworthy of democracy and the electorate. The interests of the electorate, even when it comes to immigration, are simply ignored and are snowed under in a coalition agreement. You can see that very well on this subject, because a majority of people in the Netherlands voted for immigration critical parties. And yet this is the most immigration-friendly cabinet ever, with 235,000 people coming to the Netherlands last year. If that's not an insult to the voter, Mr. Azarkan, I don't remember. Then there's the question of whether I can change my mind, or whatever. In theory, of course, I always leave the possibility open, but in this case, the government has done a very good job, so it is unlikely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u53	This shows how opportunistic Mr Baudet is in politics. Because he actually says: when it comes to my point, I beg the Chamber to debate three times, to exchange those arguments. So either he wants to make a song here for the stage album, or he also shows it on his social media or he wants to seriously debate it. Then he should also be open to what colleagues bring in. I have another follow-up question. Mr. Baudet, you were at the Nieuwsuur, no, sorry, excuse me, at Buitenhof. You said there that the countries around the countries from which refugees leave do not take refugees. Is that still true?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u54	I don't understand the question. What exactly do you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u55	At Buitenhof, you told Mr Van Ojik that the other countries in the region are not taking refugees at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u56	Oh, yeah. Yeah, that was that point that EenVandaag made that fact check number out of. I specified that. In the Middle East there are a number of countries that do take in refugees. In the following sentence, I specified that it was about the Gulf States. That sentence was cut out by OneToday. It was a very fact-checking story about Baudet making mistakes. But these were clearly countries such as Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and so on. Those are very rich countries that hardly anyone takes in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u57	I would like to address Mr Baudet. I think he is very high when it comes to debate on the basis of facts. But when you say as a political leader of a party there, and so say to the people, 'the other countries do not abide by it', while those countries that you just mentioned do in practice take refugees...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u58	But very little.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u59	Of the 100 refugees, 97 are included in the environment. In Turkey, the figure is 3.5 million. In Lebanon, 2.5 million people live in Lebanon. I think you should tell the honest story instead of chasing some sort of fear and being selective. You're really failing yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u60	In the context of the whole sense, of the two sentences, it was quite clear that I was referring to the Gulf States. Of course, I was not referring to Turkey as a Middle Eastern country, it would be Turkey as Lebanon or Iran. Those countries record a lot of people. That's obvious. Moreover, I must say that the definition of inclusion there is quite different. First of all, it does not happen for free, but almost always for heavy payment. Secondly, it is not the case that these people are incorporated into society. They stay in those camps for generations. That is an important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u61	A very strong point from Mr Baudet. Actually, he says this is poignant. He's actually saying that his model means that he doesn't want anyone to come in and dock. The Australian model holds in "" as it is known that people arriving on a boat are never entitled to enter Australia anymore. They're being taken care of in detention camps. But what do you want to do before the people you just talked about? You're creating some kind of story that it's actually sad in those countries. What do you want to do for these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u62	Well, no, I'm nudging the idea that recording would mean allowing immigration. What these countries have done is set up part of their territory as a shelter camp and there they have people staying for a fee, feeding and so on. So the concept of inclusion means something quite different from ours. I think that's important to say, an important nuance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u63	But I am telling Mr Baudet via you that that is still more than what you want to do...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u64	Then Mr Baudet will.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u65	You want to stop them by the Mediterranean with a fleet. You don't even want to let them in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u66	That's right, because we're in for shelter in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u67	If I listen to Mr Baudet, I understand why the Pact sets out the objective of fair and factual information, because it remains somewhat helpful to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u68	Yes, soon I will indeed be silenced with this in hand and what would you...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u69	I'm sorry, Mr. Baudet, but if anyone takes the floor, you need to listen first. Mr. Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is nothing in Objective 5 that we want to increase migration. It says we want to expand the safe routes. That brings me to a very important question. Mr Baudet just said that the current situation is better than where we are going. How can he be serious? How can he think that it is a good thing that tens of thousands of people are getting into a crummy boat and crossing the sea, that routes are actually in the hands of smugglers and human traffickers and that we have no control over them at all? How can Mr Baudet seriously claim that this is a good situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u71	That's not what I'm saying. That is why we also want our current immigration policy to be adapted and strengthened. We must, as I think I have said, adopt the Australian migration model, saying that people do not enter if they come here via a human smuggler or another illegal route. We should only accept applications from the region, which we will deal with and which we will look into whether we as the Netherlands have an interest in it, or whether we want to offer a specific group something temporarily or not. Of course you can. You can have a certain humanitarian reason to protect a specific group of Christians in Iran or Egypt, whatever they may be. You can do that. That's a possibility. This is all part of what you say: we control our borders and we decide who comes here for how long under what conditions. That's what a responsible government should do. Then you'll also get, as I think I said earlier, that all those people no longer get on those boats because they know they're not gonna stand a chance. It is therefore not the case that the approach of this Pact will lead to fewer illegal cross-overs. On the contrary, it will lead to more illegal superiors, because it does not distinguish between legal and illegal rights. So you encourage it. As I have said before, it is a kind of wir-winning tie on a European scale. When Angela Merkel said "wir purchase tie," a huge flood of people started: 1 million people went to Germany! That is what we are going to do again. That's why this is so stupid. That's why we shouldn't be doing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u72	My point just now was that those people came before the pact was even on paper. The idea of this pact is precisely that we are breaking that model, that we are going to regulate and that people are not going to come with these smugglers anymore. Does Mr Baudet not see the added value of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u73	I notice that there are naives who believe that. Only, if you look at what this pact is doing, we can see that it will have counterproductive consequences. The whole pact, once again, is about "to enhance and expand migration." It is a positive idea of sketching diversity. The spirit of the pact, but also the letter, revolves around multiculturalism, open borders, migratory flows. It also says: we are all the product of migration; all countries are countries of departure, transit and arrival. Well, Somalia really isn't a country of arrival. Many countries are countries of departure. For those countries, emigration is a earning model. They make money from the money their diaspora sends back to their countries. They therefore have no interest in suddenly getting down on our knees to their hearts as well. That is not going to happen, it is counterproductive and there are only more people illegally coming across the Mediterranean. And what about the problems here? That is perhaps the most poignant thing in this whole debate so far. I haven't heard anyone talk about what we do for the Dutch who have all these immigration problems, what we do in the neighbourhoods. No, you're not. You think of human rights, you think of the world community. You must stand up for the Netherlands!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u74	Then I'll go to Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u75	On the one hand, I can well imagine Mr Baudet's concerns. I stood on Lampedusa Island in March 2015 and saw hundreds of people arriving there, at the gate of Europe. I was also on the border between Greece and Macedonia. That's where 7,000 people came into Europe uncontrolled. In that respect, the answer that then emerged in New York in 2016, the beginning of this process, was a response to the uncontrolled migration flow to Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u76	Yeah, but it was the wrong answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u77	We want to tackle this uncontrolled flow together. I assume that is what Mr Baudet wants. Has he also read Article 13, on unity of purpose, which describes the objective of the Pact? This is about regulating migration and making migration safe. What Mr Baudet is very concerned about is, I think, a next pact, because we will then have a pact on refugees and refugees. But this pact focuses on solving the problem of these uncontrolled flows. That's what they call regulating migration here, in an orderly and secure way. That's the goal. I hope that Mr Baudet has also read the answers to the 100 questions he has asked; I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u78	Article 13 is another strange article which places migrant rights at the heart of the world rather than the rights of indigenous peoples in the countries where all these migrants go with their culture and beliefs and then with their family reunifications and so on. That's something you should think about. You may think Christianity guides you, but Jesus is really talking about your neighbor: you must love your neighbor. You may love people far away, but your neighbor doesn't. Your attitude is cold to the Dutch who are dealing with the painful, grievous and threatening consequences of mass immigration, which encourages you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u79	This is interesting. If Mr Baudet cites biblical examples, I will go with him. Then I'm going to ask you, who was the merciful Samaritan? Was that the priest or the levite?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u80	I don't know about all that. I stand up for the Netherlands, I stand up for the people in the Netherlands and I do not want mass immigration to continue...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u81	Mr. Baudet...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u82	I'm not interested in peeing about who knows the Bible better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u83	Mr Voordewind has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u84	You're making a comparison with the Bible. Then I tell you: it was the merciful Samaritan, in other words, it was not even the one Jew who helped the other Jew, it was one who was not of the people of Israel. That's what the story of the merciful Samaritan is all about: taking care of each other, indeed, but that "together" doesn't mean that, when they are outside the Netherlands, we just say: keep warm. Back to the pact, Mr. Chairman. That's meant for regulating migration. If Mr Baudet says 'we should leave them mainly there', I would say: read it again, because it says that the countries are encouraged to tackle the root causes of migration. This is also one of the main objectives of this cabinet: to invest more money, to see more about what we can do with trade, to try to create jobs for young people, including with the Dutch business community, so that they do not migrate, so that they do not come to the Netherlands. And when they come to the Netherlands, they should be welcome, if they are real refugees, like an Asia Bibi. I hope you agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u85	It would be good if Mr Voordewind, like many other politicians in the Netherlands, would look more often at reality rather than lose himself in daydreaming. The pact on the euro, the EMU Treaty and other pacts, such as the Stability Pact and so on, is constantly based on the paper reality that we can agree all kinds of things with Southern Europe, a part of the world that is infinitely more like us than what we encounter in Africa and the Middle East. These people are infinitely more like us than the people who run countries in Africa and the Middle East. And even they, even the Italians, but also the French, do not comply with the budgetary commitments at all. For them, something like a 3% standard means something completely different than for us. These cultural differences are completely overlooked. With this paper in our hands, we tie Dutch judges, European governments and ourselves to hands and feet. We make it virtually impossible for ourselves to reduce mass immigration, while countries in Africa and the Middle East have no message about this at all. For decades they have ignored all the human rights treaties and all the other treaties we conclude with them. And you think that this non-binding pact or a fundamental change in Morocco, in Somalia, in Rwanda, in Libya, in all those countries from which these people come, is going to bring about, while we would have the freedom to talk ourselves out of it, because it is non-binding. I really find that very strange. I think it's dangerous, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u86	It's going all over the place. We are now going to talk about the 3% standard and the cultural differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u87	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u88	Besides, I don't think there are as many migrants anywhere as there are in the Middle East. They're all migrant workers, which this compact is also about. But back to this proposal. If Mr Baudet really wants to regulate these migratory flows, then he has to go along with this proposal. This proposal leads to countries such as Libya and Tunisia... You weren't on the trip from the Immigration Commission to Tunisia.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u89	No, I was working.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u90	We went there to see how that migration can be regulated by the reinforcement of the Coast Guard. Such measures are contained in this compact. They are also in the government agreement and in the migration note of this Secretary of State. You should be for it. You should be in favour of looking at how we can better regulate migration and how there can be a better selection when it comes to refugees. Maybe we'll talk about that in two weeks. So we are also looking at how we can better select at the African gate, so that those people do not have to drown in the Mediterranean. You must be able to sign this, because you are in favour of regulating migration. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u91	I am thinking about euphemism "regulating migration." I'm in favour of controlling migration. I am in favour of us being able to decide as a country who does and who does not come here. The Pact contains a succession of rights for immigrants and so on, but there is only a few phrases that say: Oh yes, emigration countries are also doing their best to see if they might be able to accommodate us. Of course, that is not what this pact is about. This isn't gonna change anything either. The only way to stop that people's influx is to send a very clear signal that they won't come in. That's the only way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u92	Mr Baudet also makes a big number of the fact that people have rights. I do not understand it very well: does he really want a pact in which these human rights no longer exist? Does he agree that this pact builds on a lot of treaties that recognise rights, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights? Or does he think that migrants should not rely on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u93	I believe that we have the right or not to allow people into our territory, whether or not we allow them into our social security system. And so I do not think that we have an obligation to all the people of the earth. I think the Netherlands has been incredibly generous, that we have included incredibly many people here, that we have been very flexible in watering down certain cultural standards and that we are willing to talk about all kinds of traditions. I think we are and have been very open, tolerant and diverse and so on, but there is a limit to what we can handle. We must realise that the way things are going now is untenable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u94	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u95	As the Netherlands, we have indeed been generous in including groups of people, including Mr Baudet's ancestors. If I'm not mistaken, one of your ancestors in Belgium didn't want to join the army. That's why he fled to the Netherlands. And here he was welcome. But my question is a little more specific: do you or do you not think that people, including refugees, are covered by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u96	Firstly, if Baudets came from France to the Netherlands, that would be shelter in the region. We are in favour of that, but the story is something else...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u97	Brass skate or something?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u98	I didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u99	Yeah, it was a joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u100	Oh! Yeah, sometimes it's okay if you add that to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u101	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u102	I don't think it's a question of finding. I think the whole idea of the Universal Declaration is that the beautiful moral principles should be universal. At the same time, we can first of all observe that this is not a reality in many countries in the world, and secondly, that they are beautiful principles on paper but in practice only the question of how they will work out. There may also be constant conflicts, for example, that will appeal to you between freedom of religion on the one hand and freedom of expression on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u104	That's not an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u105	No, Mr. Azarkan. Thank you, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u106	Yeah, I'm not done, because I want...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u107	No, you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u108	... filing a motion. I shall table the following motion: because the government has chosen...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u109	Mr. Baudet, just a minute. Just for a second. If you wish to file a motion in the first term, you will need the consent of the majority of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u110	Yes, and I feel entitled to ask for that permission because the government has taken a position in this discussion even before waiting for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u111	Then I shall first check whether the Members of Parliament agree that a motion will be tabled in the first term. I'll start with you, Mr. Azarkan, but you're standard for the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u112	I was standing there, Mr. Chairman. This confirms my point, however, that Mr Baudet does not want to wait and see what colleagues want to argue. I'll make that point. It may be a point of order. It is customary for your colleagues to hear, for us to exchange arguments, and for us to determine our position on that basis. But I'd like to give Mr. Baudet his shine on social media, so I'll let him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u113	Then I'm going to see Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u114	In my view, it is the intention of the government to rule and therefore to adopt a position and for the Chamber to control it. That's how it works in parliament. That's a drill. But if Mr Baudet wishes to table a motion, fine, we will hear it. But I find it a bit strange, because I think it is intended that the cabinet should have a position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u115	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u116	Yeah, keep it coming!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u117	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u118	No problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u119	No problem at all, but it is a strange figure, as Mrs Van Toorenburg rightly says, because Mr Baudet has not heard at all how, for example, the Secretary of State thinks about it and has not heard other people speak. It underlines once again that he does not take this debate seriously at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u120	Mr. Chairman. If it is a motion of censure, let Mr Baudet submit it. Then we'll be done with that and we'll be able to vote on it. Then colleagues will also have their hands free to do what they want and then we can move on to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u121	Well, unless the motion is passed!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u122	No! No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u123	Mr. Chairman. I am not yet clear what kind of motion Mr Baudet wishes to table. I do not like to deviate from agreed procedures either, but there is a majority that allows Mr Baudet to table his motion. I won't stand up to that. And if I did, it wouldn't help.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u124	I thought we would debate first and then put forward motions, but if Mr Baudet wants to do so, I think it is okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u125	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u126	Mr. Chairman. It's unusual, but that's no reason not to. I would appreciate it if Mr Baudet would tell us exactly what...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u127	He's about to read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u128	...the importance is to file a motion in the first term. But no objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u129	Mr. Baudet, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u130	I'll tell you exactly why this is so important. I started by mentioning a number of points about why I am actually involved in politics, what the Forum for Democracy is about and what is at stake here. By putting forward this motion, we stress how fundamental the choice ahead is, how essential it is that we not only talk to each other, but that we also show our teeth as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u131	Now the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u132	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Rutte cabinet stated that it would support the Marrakesh Immigration Pact on 10 December next in Marrakesh;]] [[whereas this is a totally irresponsible and unacceptable decision that will have far-reaching long-term consequences for Dutch society;]] [[Whereas this decision was made extremely careless before the legal opinion was finalised and before a debate with the Chamber took place;]] [[Whereas the Foreign Ministers, Development Cooperation and Justice and Security Ministers were involved in the establishment of this dramatic Marrakech Immigration Pact and the Rutte Cabinet intends to sign this Pact on behalf of the Head of State;]] [[declares confidence in the cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30573-154]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u133	I want it put to the vote right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u134	That's the idea. We're about to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u135	And I want a roll call vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-48.u136	Well, then it's clear. Thank you. Then I would actually like to put the proposal to the vote. I shall suspend the sitting for ten minutes and then vote on Mr Baudet's motion.
