ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the rules implementing EU Directive 2016/1148, the Cybersecurity Act. As chairman, I have to ensure that Dutch and no English are spoken in this Chamber, but I believe that one of the Members, Mr Van Dam, has already come up with a solution to this problem. I therefore believe that this problem will resolve itself during the debate. I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security, as well as the members and all those who are watching. I would be the first to give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about transposing into Dutch legislation a European agreement to improve our network security and information security. That is an important subject. The AIVD's annual report shows that foreign powers and criminal organisations are targeting our digital systems, for profit or to disrupt the democratic process. And hacks can have huge consequences for electricity and drinking water supplies, for medical safety, national security and so on. The Minister spoke recently about the need for digital dike monitoring and I can imagine that statement. GroenLinks therefore supports the Cybersecurity Act, but we do hope that the cabinet will also take this to heart. Since this issue has already been discussed extensively yesterday in the Responsible Affairs debate, I will be brief, but it is of course very serious that only the Ministry of General Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment currently meet the requirements of cybersecurity. How does the Minister see his job in getting this right? The new law obliges essential service providers to put their ICT security in order and to report serious cyber security incidents to the designated authorities. In terms of assignment, the implementation of this law does not undermine another major project, which will continue to take place tomorrow, namely the General Data Protection Regulation. But in comparison, the information for companies is short and sometimes unclear. Are the complaints about ambiguity known to the Minister and what does he intend to do about it? Mr. Chairman. An EU-wide coordination mechanism plays a major role in the implementation of the GDPR, the General Data Protection Regulation. This could provide guidelines on how the regulation should be interpreted. This Article 29 working group thus ensures coherence at European level. Such a working group is missing from the Cyber Security Act, but wouldn't it be a good idea here, too? I ask the Minister whether he feels that he should make a commitment to such a mechanism at EU level. I have also heard from several companies their concern about the procedures that are going to apply. I understand that a cyber incident may have to be reported at no less than three points of contact, for example a data breach with personal data from a large telecom company. This should be reported to the Agency Telecom as a cybersecurity supervisor, to the NCSC because it is a vital organisation and to the Dutch Data Protection Authority. Does the Minister agree with me that this is very much of the good and should not be chosen to designate a one-stop shop? And then, of course, preferably the most obvious window. It seems to me that this will improve the effectiveness and reduce the administrative burden on businesses. Finally. This afternoon, the Committee on Economic Affairs met on better procurement. This included the decision of this minister to banish the Russian company Kaspersky. I understand the Minister's view very well, but my group does have questions about it. Because how does such a decision come about? I understand that some analyses must remain secret because it is information provided through secret services. But is the Minister sure of his case? Is there evidence or was the decision made on the basis of a suspicion? And is the decision therefore taken into account what this means for ongoing calls for tenders? Because according to the Minister's colleague, this is not a matter for Secretary of State Keijzer, but for the Minister of Justice. So I hope to get an answer from him. Are there any companies whose services are purchased by the Dutch government, which still use the software? So what are the requirements in this area and who do they apply to? Is it true that C2000 was developed by a company in Chinese hands? And what do you think of that? In short, GroenLinks and I also think many companies need a policy line for cybersecurity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mr Alkaya on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. In recent years, we have been increasingly confronted with Internet attacks, both aimed at individuals and at important systems and services that we all use. WannaCry led to chaos in British health care last year, where hospitals were closed down and surgeries were postponed. In the Netherlands, among others, IT systems of Q-Park parking garages got infected with ransomware and banks were hit several times by dpos attacks; today ABN AMRO. Of course, organisations themselves have the greatest interest in securing computer systems properly, but there is also a collective interest. It is therefore a good thing that the main principle of an obligation to secure computer systems is enshrined in the law, regardless of the precise form it will take by sector. Unfortunately, however, the scope of this law is rather limited. Only vital services and a group of online service providers will be covered by this implementing law of a European Directive. The reasoning behind the directive is that problems with other companies have less social consequences, and therefore it would not be necessary to extend this obligation to them. To the opinion of the Personal Data Authority to include other parties in this law, the Cabinet further replies that the Digital Trust Center should play an important role in advising parties, for example small and medium-sized enterprises. That's good, of course. There has been a SP motion at the base of the Digital Trust Center, but is advice sufficient in this respect? Why should we not include a legal obligation to require manufacturers of all devices connected to the Internet to adequately secure those devices? Households are increasingly connected to the Internet, not only computers, tablets and phones, but also other devices: refrigerators, televisions and robotic vacuum cleaners. Because there is no obligation to properly secure and also keep these devices secure, with updates, users are not only at risk themselves, but unintentionally contribute to dpos attacks as one has happened today. The fact that manufacturers are not obliged to secure their internet devices properly is highly outdated. In order to prevent hackers, the SP aims to establish minimum safety requirements for all internet devices, similar to existing environmental, health and safety requirements imposed on devices. There is also an approved motion from this Chamber on this subject, which I believe includes the name of D66. So I would like to hear why it has not been chosen to include Internet devices and other services under this implementing law. That seems to me to be a missed opportunity, because the directive aims at minimum harmonisation and the Minister could, as I know, go further, by basically including all devices connected to the Internet under this implementing law. That's why he could've protected us better. After all the incidents of lately, security leaks, ddos attacks, hacked cameras and uncertainty among citizens about what happens to their data, I think it would be no harm to take further preventive measures. Finally, it can be read in the documents that the organisation that collects reports of break-ins at internet services is an apology, because that is an English word anyway, the Computer Security Incident Response Team, CSIRT, also a very nice abbreviation, will be designated by Royal Decree instead of by General Measure of Board as previously proposed. This would be to save time, because we are already too late in implementing this European directive. Frankly, I do not think it is a very strong argument that we are too late in implementing it, and that is why we are now opting for a less robust process in the direction of such an organisation, and that we are now laying it down in such a way in the law. So I ask the Minister if he can explain how he intends to take the House of Representatives and, by the way, the Council of State into the future of this process, if we are no longer to be included in the law. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start by saying that "CDA" is a Dutch abbreviation. It stands for Christian-Democratic Appeal. I will also explain other abbreviations where possible. Mr. Chairman. The most essential contribution I wish to make to this debate on this law is a plea for a different citation of the law, because I really hope that there will still be proposals from the cabinet that deserve to be referred to by the term 'Cybersecurity law' more than these proposals. And whoever keeps what, he has something! I think that the amendment, which everyone will have taken note of, speaks for itself. I don't want to dwell too much on that. Lately, a lot has come towards us in terms of data and privacy protection. It has been thought that the GDPR will enter into force tomorrow. So it also comes from the companies, which are now seeing this regulation coming into its own. Can the Minister state what tax this bill has for the Netherlands, which is already busy implementing the GDPR? Mr. Chairman. Then missing the implementation deadline. In my opinion, there are more rules coming towards us from Europe, and we are not the fastest to meet the deadlines. I'm sorry about that. Sometimes, in view of the change of cabinet, it is inevitable that it is, I think. However, I believe that there is also a directive on the protection of criminal data, the sister of the GDPR, which is still waiting and is not coming within the deadline. What are the consequences of that? Should we think of a fine or will Europe then take over here? Can the Minister state what the consequences are? Then there is the provision of information to citizens and businesses. This has already been mentioned by colleagues. I'd like to join in on that. To what extent are people, and especially companies, now prepared to be covered? This is particularly true with regard to the DSPs, the digital service providers, because the way in which they are covered remains to be determined. The Minister for Economic Affairs still has to point that out. Is there not a threat here that companies will be informed too late? It is also possible to be considered DSP one year and not the following year. "This is due to the nature of companies, which may change business activities," the Minister said. Well, then, I wonder where the responsibility lies. Is it up to the company to be sharp whether or not she is anymore? If there is a list of DSPs, should one report when the business changes? Where is the initiative for this change of character? Then we'll talk about zero readings. With regard to zero measurement in certain sectors, we find the Minister's response somewhat disappointing. The Minister agreed that it might be good to make an inventory of the current security situation, but that seems to be the end of it. It is indeed up to the competent authority to organise supervision, but the Minister can make recommendations in this respect, does he not think? It seems like a really missed opportunity if this isn't done. Or does the Minister already have any indication that this will become part of the supervision? Finally. I wonder how we in the Chamber are kept informed about the implementation of this legislation. In fact, there is relatively little about this in the law and in the explanatory memorandum. Would the Minister be prepared to send a report to the Chamber? I am thinking of a one-year deadline on what is going on with the introduction of this law? How many companies are covered? How does supervision take shape? I am also asking for this in view of the fact that, in the meantime, there is still a lot to be done on the part of the Economic Affairs Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u7	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mr Arno Rutte on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u8	Mr. Chairman. If you are going to have a debate a little later, then sometimes some grass has been mowed away at your feet, especially in legal proceedings where MPs are very much in agreement. Let's see where that takes us. I agree with Mr Alkaya that digital security is as important as physical security. I think Mrs Buitenweg said the same thing. We must note that there are requirements with regard to products and services that contribute to our physical safety. For example, we make demands on a dike, on how it should be built to ensure that we keep dry feet. We make demands on cars: are there airbags in them and other safety systems to ensure that we can safely drive them, at least as much as possible? So it is also logical that we make demands on crucial digital services. It is also a good thing that this is now regulated at European level, because in the digital world everything is connected with everyone. If the playing field within Europe is more level and we can count on an adequate level of security being maintained in other Member States, we can also keep our country a lot safer digitally. The threats that are coming to us have already been outlined very clearly by a number of colleagues. It is therefore clear that VVD is in favour of the present legislative proposal. Mr Van Dam has already explained it, with all the abbreviations. We are dealing with providers of essential services, the AEDs. They are governed by this law. We also have the digital service providers, the DSPs. It's a celebration of abbreviations. Let me make a long story short. Those AEDs are designated by the government. Those who are included are clear. You know that. You get a clue that you have to comply with this law. As a number of colleagues have already pointed out, that is a bit more unclear with these DSPs. I would like to give some insight into how unclear that is. Digital service providers or providers of digital services may or may not be covered by that law. An attempt has been made to explain that. Then you read things like that an online marketplace or a digital marketplace are covered. Then an attempt is made to explain: "An online marketplace concerns a digital service that offers products or services from third parties (entrepreneurs) and takes over part or all of the stages on behalf of this third party that this third party would carry out itself (e.g. payment, transmission, or provision of a service/product)." It is, of course, extremely commendable that the government has tried to put a nice definition of the law. It also includes other terms covered by those digital service providers, such as online search engines or cloud computer services. Knowing that the average entrepreneur is usually engaged in entrepreneurship, doesn't read any laws, and if he already reads them perhaps not entirely in the legal jargon at home, one can imagine that in practice it is unclear whether or not you are covered by that law. Other parties have asked questions about this and we have asked questions about it. The answer contained in the written reply is a little disappointing. We literally got the following answer. We were promised that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy will look into how to communicate to service providers in good time about the law, that it will consider creating a checklist and that a list of digital service providers will also be examined. "Researchs," "consider" and "maybe," but enterprises will have to comply with this law in six months' time. So that's really very thin as far as the VVD is concerned, that thinking, researching and considering. I therefore also have a simple question for the Minister: how does he ensure that entrepreneurs at the date of implementation are clear whether they are covered by the definition of the current law? That's about the law. On the other hand, I would like to raise another point today. However important it is that organisations themselves organise their digital security properly, if something is going on then it is also important that digitally well-recovered. We need an accurate police force that can capture cybercriminals, otherwise we will not keep the Netherlands digitally safe. I have drawn attention in several debates to the knowledge and skills needed in the police force and asked if the police have access to such people, whether they are able to recruit them. Then the Minister keeps saying, and I want to believe that of him too: the police are one of the most popular employers in the Netherlands and there is intense recruitment. The latter is certainly true. All you have to do is turn on the radio and you hear the spots in which digital talent is recruited by the police. Very well, we also need these people very much; a good and proper effort. I have also made a tour of a large number of companies in recent months where a lot of experts work on cybersecurity every day. Independently of each other, these companies are already reporting huge difficulties in getting the people they need to commit themselves to. The digital talent, the cyber talent, is scarce and the competition on working conditions is huge. The chances that the police can go all the way along with that are actually nil. We should not want the police to pay the kind of money that is paid in business; not feasible. At the same time, these same organisations see the great importance that cyberknowledge and expertise is sufficiently present in the police. In the United Kingdom, considerable steps have been taken in recent years with the so-called "I do not escape the English term; it is about the United Kingdom "Employer Supported Politicing." The police actively seek cooperation with the business community to support employees from those companies to be used as a volunteer in the police force, often as a flat hat we also do this in the Netherlands, but more often as a cyber expert or as a financial detective. People from the city, the chalk stripe suits, also work as volunteers to deal with the financial crooks. Cyber expertise is exactly the same. Employers often pay the hours so that the employee can be employed. Thanks to this programme, the very scarce cyber knowledge and also financial knowledge can be made available to the British police in the form of police volunteers, with the support of employers. The discussions I had showed that Dutch employers were also open to such cooperation. I ask the Minister, together with the Chief Constable, to take up this glove and also in the Netherlands to make an employer-supported volunteer deployment to the police, starting with cybersecurity. Is he prepared to do so and, if so, what time does he intend to take this up? Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u9	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u10	Mr. Chairman. I am glad that we can talk again today about this important issue of cybersecurity, a subject that is growing in importance. A few years ago, there was relatively little attention to it, even in this Chamber. Now we have a regular debate. I think that is a good development; it is also necessary. If the world changes, the House of Representatives must also respond to this and also deal with the issues that are becoming more and more acute towards the people. Today we're talking about the Cyber Security Act, a name that suggests it's a heavy, firm, new law, but of course it's not. It is simply an implementing law of the European Union's NIB Directive, but it is still part of a broader cybersecurity agenda of this cabinet, an agenda that is also well-stocked. The cabinet recognizes the enormous importance of cybersecurity and thus also takes concrete and decisive action. For example, 100 million is invested in cybersecurity, in research and in strengthening knowledge and skills in ICT facilities in the government. People and businesses are encouraged to have the basis in order... with campaigns and digital skills as part of the educational curriculum. There will be a Digital Trust Centre, the cabinet will encourage the creation of safe devices and software by imposing mandatory requirements on IoT devices, for example; Mr Alkaya has already mentioned it. IoT devices... Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. Those are all those nice devices that are connected to the Internet, the Internet of Things. Software requirements are also required. Cooperation between companies and public authorities is also encouraged to anticipate rapidly and to respond rapidly to all kinds of new developments. That's good. The law that's there now will fit in there. This law provides for essential service providers and a number of digital service providers to take appropriate measures to put their cyber security in order, thus their cyber security, and to report incidents so that everyone can learn from each other properly. The Netherlands was already in the lead in this area, so even without that implementing law we were already doing well and we were already active. However, I am pleased that this directive also requires all the other Member States in the European Union to work on this issue and thus raises the level of security throughout the European Union. That is a positive development. I have a few more questions and suggestions. With that I will overlap with some of the speakers before me, but then I will add some strength to their words by repeating their story and perhaps specifying them. I'm starting with the definition of a DSP, a digital service provider. Mr Van Dam also mentioned it. Which companies and organisations are these exactly? The cabinet has said that it can also be companies with more than 50 employees. It is still being considered how companies can see for themselves whether they are covered by the definition, e.g. by means of a questionnaire. The question I would like to ask the Minister is what progress has been made on that point. That is also a bit in line with Mr Arno Rutte's question. D66 tries to keep the burden on businesses as low as possible, for example by ensuring that reporting is easy and accessible. The Minister sent a written reply to the Court stating that he would examine whether the notifications could be made by one act. What is the situation with that and when will we be able to determine it? Then there's a more spicy point, Mr. Chairman, if I say so myself. I'll leave that to the Minister. In the written round, D66 asked whether ethical hackers can trust that unknown vulnerabilities they find and report to the NCC, not also by the police, or the AIVD and STIVD services can be used to hack. The minister said that sometimes it might indeed be the case that unknown vulnerabilities are passed on to the AIVD. At least that's what I got from his answers to the Chamber. Is it true that information in these cases is not reported to the software creator? That would of course close the hole and if the maker closed it, the services could no longer use it to hack it. This is always the dilemma in the field of unknown vulnerabilities, which are also called zero-days. What about that? What about that dilemma? Where does the cabinet position itself when it comes to using the unknown vulnerabilities found by ethical hackers to report so that the company can close them, versus the importance of the service to keep them open? It is an important issue, and we have to make a choice in the end. How often does this happen? Does the Minister see the negative consequences for the independent role of the NCC? I see the NCC as an independent authority and not as a double role/passing of unknown vulnerabilities. I think we should really pay attention to that. I would like a reply from the Minister to this, which provides more certainty about these choices. Then I would like to close by saying that ethical hackers must be able to trust that the information they have properly obtained through the responsible disclosure, guidance and all the things they have to adhere to will be handled carefully. So if they come up with something and find something, they need to be sure that that information is being treated carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u11	Mr Van Dam has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u12	I hear Mr Verhoeven talking about those zero-days. I believe that this issue is not so much the subject of this law, but perhaps it played a more prominent role in the Computer Crime Act III. That he puts it so emphatically, may I conclude that D66 may have taken a slightly different position on the subject and that she would like to give this to the Minister with this comment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u13	Absolutely not. Computer crime III, the law that Mr Van Dam is talking about, is about how the police use these vulnerabilities. By the way, that law was dealt with in the Chamber. However, this is broader, because this is about the AIVD and the STIVD. They are not controlled by the Computer Crime Act III, so to speak. They are governed by another law, which we have all discussed in this Chamber, the Wiv. A very interesting law you should know more about, Mr. Chairman. Okay, let's get this over with. No, this is not to give an introduction to a position of D66. This is a question to the Minister about a dilemma that is separate from these two laws. It is therefore important to have a clear approach. So that's what I'm asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u14	Finally, Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u15	Could Mr Verhoeven please give me a hand? What role do these ethical hackers play under this law in relation to the obligation to notify or at all to such companies, because that is what we are talking about in the context of this law? I don't quite understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u16	The relation to this law is the following. Ethical hackers report certain vulnerabilities, known or unknown, to companies who then have to work with them. This is certainly within the scope of this law, because it is also about reporting vulnerabilities. If that happens, the find of those ethical hackers, the unknown vulnerability they have found, will be passed on to the police or intelligence or security services without their knowing, which is not why they reported it to the NCSC. I'd like to have a grip on that development. So I'd like to know from the Minister how that works. I see that Mr Van Dam has also woken up now and that he also sees that we in the Chamber must be very careful about this point. So I'm glad he could ask that question. I'd like to go to the healthcare sector, if that's all right, Mr. President. During the WannaCry attack, which was the name of the ransomware attack that occurred this summer and which, of course, has been quite worryingly unpacked, several hospitals in Europe have been affected. We have also discussed this with the previous rulers. As a result of that attack, some people couldn't get treatment. In the UK, some people couldn't even get chemotherapy. The concern seems to me to be a vital sector, literally. The data provided by healthcare providers are also sensitive. The systems they use, e.g. scanning devices or medical equipment, are often crucial for patients. There is also the complexity of the fact that these devices cannot always be replaced or updated quickly and therefore pose an additional risk. That's what we've been talking about here in the Chamber. However, in the healthcare sector, no AEDs, providers of essential services, have been identified. That is strange as far as D66 is concerned. So we would like to know from the Minister why that is not the case. Why didn't he choose that? Fortunately, this year a Care-CERT, a cybersecurity emergency response team for healthcare has already been established. That organization must be able to respond quickly to cyber attacks. There a number of specialists work to help healthcare institutions and information is shared. What about the development of this special CERT for that special team in the healthcare sector? Are all the hospitals connected by now? Does the Minister consider that there is sufficient attention to cyber security in the care sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u17	Thank you very much. This has put an end to the first term of office. Does the Minister need a suspension? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u18	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u19	Mr. Chairman. I will not mention the bill by name too often, because an amendment has been tabled on the name. This bill builds on the foundation we have laid with the Data Processing and Reporting Act cybersecurity. That law governs the tasks of the National Cyber Security Centre, the data processing regime and a reporting obligation for serious incidents at the same National Cyber Security Centre. Parts come back in the bill. Apart from that, there are only provisions implementing the so-called NIB Directive of the European Union on the security of network and information systems, such as those that regulate and monitor the proper security and monitoring of the ICT of essential service providers. The same applies to providers of online marketplaces, online search engines and cloud services. We have chosen to separate the roles of aid provider (the CSIRT) and supervisor (the competent authority) in the legislative proposal and to place supervision and sanctions with existing sectoral supervisors, such as De Nederlandsche Bank and the Telecom Agency. I will deal with this in more detail later, following on from the questions put by Mr Buitenweg. I come to the answer to the questions put. First of all, I would like to address the questions on the scope of the legislative proposal. This bill does not impose minimum requirements on all devices. After all, it is certainly a cabinet policy not to include other issues in the implementation of European legislation. One of the reasons for this policy is that implementation can be delayed by including other topics in the discussion. The NIB Directive is not about requirements and devices, but about securing ICT systems that are crucial for the proper functioning of society. Can devices be required to protect devices from hacks and the like? Why isn't that in the bill? Software and hardware developers and manufacturers are excluded from the NIB Directive. Recently, my colleague, the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, sent the Roadmap Digital Safe Hard and Software to the Chamber. It will be discussed in detail in the Cybersecurity Agenda; let that be clear. There is a clear link in the policy. The said roadmap can improve the digital security of projects. The legal requirements to remove unsafe products from the market, as well as the promotion of standards and certification in the development of safe products, are considered, among other things. The further development of the roadmap will also further examine and formulate any obligations of manufacturers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u20	Mr Alkaya has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u21	With all due respect, I think that's a pretty dogmatic way to look at it. It is a stand-alone policy to be against national heads by definition, while there is minimum harmonisation here, and there is a motion that fits in with the cabinet policy to investigate such legal measures for devices. In my view, this could be achieved by extending the scope of the law and including not only organisations but also manufacturers of such equipment. This seems to me to be a fairly efficient and more effective way of working than using a completely different route.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u22	I'm afraid I'm thinking a little bit differently here. When we talk about the efficient implementation of this legislation and other legislation, I think it would be good to present this implementation legislation now and at the same time explain the road map, together with the companies. That's what the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs does. We can then look at that. We have to talk about exactly how far the obligations of manufacturers should go. If we are going to have that debate together now, we will really be a few months further. That is not a dogmatic choice: that is how we always do it. The reason I referred to this as a firm cabinet policy is because it is the efficient way to get through implementing legislation. I have outlined quite extensively what my colleague Mona Keijzer is working on. That brings her back to the Chamber, you know that. That is also what the Member wants to see done in terms of efficiency and progress in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u23	I can follow the Minister's reasoning in this case, but I would simply like to dispute the fact that this is a cabinet policy. I believe that we will soon be talking about PNR, the passenger data, and that is where the cabinet is putting a big head on it. I imagine that in this case you think that there is reason to separate a number of things, but to say that this is always firm government policy... Well, that's a little when it suits you, isn't it? That's okay, but let's not say this is the standard, because that has to be the standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u24	As far as you refer to PNR, I have to blame myself for doing as I please, but I want to do so as courteously as possible. We're gonna talk about PNR. At some point in time a further agreement was made by the Council of Ministers in Europe to your Chamber at the time, and this is now being discussed. That is something else, legally speaking, than a purely national head. You mention this example, but otherwise there is the use, not as an old Dutch tradition, but because we need to ensure that we implement European legislation efficiently, that we stick in principle to what is in the directive. As much as I sympathise with the points raised by Mr Alkaya, let me be clear, that would be an excessive additional burden on the ship of this implementing law. Once again, I have said that the cabinet is actively working on this through the Secretary of State EZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u25	Mrs Buitenweg, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u26	Indeed, we are going to talk about PNR. It is now about implementing directives. The PNR directive contains something far more minimal than what the Cabinet has agreed with its colleagues. The latter is nowhere in a law, so I maintain the argument that it is now the way it is. I can also imagine him choosing to do this. I hope to persuade him to opt for minimal implementation in PNR.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u27	Yes, I think it is very good that we are already taking a look at what is to come, but I repeat that I do not think that the accusation made by Mr Buitenweg is justified. Shall I continue, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u28	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u29	Then I came up with some questions about digital service providers. I will continue to use this Dutch term for the English abbreviation DSP. How are these digital service providers designated? I have already pointed out, as Mr Rutte also pointed out, that the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs is considering how to communicate in good time. I understand very well that Mr Rutte says that he would like this to go a little further. I undertake to speak with the Secretary of State on this issue, to emphasise the importance of this point and to consider with her to what extent we can make this timely communication as sharp and active as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u30	Mr Rutte has another question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u31	I didn't ask a lot of questions, but this one did. The point is that it has already been asked in the written round to make concrete what is going to happen. Then came in answer: we think about it, and there were a number of options; we would sister, we would so et cetera. Now the Minister says he's gonna make a big deal out of it and tell the Secretary of State in a good conversation that we think this is very important, to sum it up a little bit. Can he guarantee that, if that law is implemented in the near future, in principle there is no ambiguity in about six months' time, that someone who falls under that definition knows that this is true, that it can know that and does not have to doubt because communication is in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u32	Can I answer a question for Mr Rutte, through you, Mr President, in which I shall return to it? That is the question: which companies are now digital service providers? Digital service providers are companies that, of course, operate digital services and employ 50 or more people or have an annual turnover of 10 million or more. They are covered by the Directive. I repeat a little bit of what I said. The Secretary of State is looking into how you can verify that on the basis of a checklist. It contains a touchstone: to what extent should a company providing a digital service, for example an online marketplace, be regarded as a digital service provider? Of course, this communication must include those who can be used to test it. The following general point is, of course, involved in this. New legislation will be introduced defining which parties have an obligation, the AEDs or, in this case, the digital service providers. A definition of this is given. Mr Rutte rightly points out that not every entrepreneur is always exactly as good... he should, because everyone is supposed to know the law. Anyway, that's gonna blow it up sometimes. That's why we're looking at a communication campaign like this. My commitment went a little further than I'm going to make an effort to have a conversation I'm going to have with the Secretary of State. My commitment is: I will talk to the Secretary of State to see how we organise this communication and awareness among companies that may be digital service providers under this law in such a way that these companies really check it out. As a result, of course, the question was raised as to what it would be like if such a company were to engage in any other activity at any time. Well, at the time when a company chooses to change its business, for example by rejecting activities and therefore falling under the turnover limit, or by acquiring and falling up... It is, of course, at some point, the responsibility of a company to check whether or not it is covered by this law. As one is more familiar with that law in the professional world, one may of course also be expected to have more awareness of it. I hope I have answered that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u33	I don't think it's enough yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u34	Oh, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u35	The Minister will explain it in detail. That's to be commended, and that's good. Things are getting a little more clear, but still. The question is not only whether you are subject to the law because of a certain size. No, the question is also: do I have a digital marketplace, yes or no? There are all kinds of things in the law. In one case it is, in the other case it isn't. Sometimes a little, sometimes not quite. Cloud computing services: idem ditto. I can imagine entrepreneurs doubting that. So on the one hand I hear: we are going to put the communication towards entrepreneurs in general in order. Well, I'd like to believe that. But can entrepreneurs who have doubts find somewhere, like "I'm doing this, this is my business and I just wanted to make sure I follow the rules"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u36	I just said it, but I really want to stress that. Of course, we must also involve the possibility of a review list in some way, but that will really lie with EZK to see where one can go with this kind of question. In my youth it was called P.O. Box 51, but there must also be a kind of point of contact where questions can be asked. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the question of how the CSIRT is designated for digital service providers, now that it is not in the law itself. Following the letter of amendment, the bill stipulates that the CSIRT for digital service providers shall be designated by small Royal Decree. It can be done very quickly. As such, a DTC will be designated, a Digital Trust Center. Mr Verhoeven referred to this. This is now being set up and becomes part of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Then I had some questions from Mr Van Dam about the deadline for implementation. He asked, "What are the consequences if we don't make the deadline?" The NIB Directive has two implementation periods. The first one expired on 9 May. That date shall apply only to the single contact point, digital service providers and the possibility of voluntary incident reporting. The second deadline expires on 9 November and we expect to reach it. The Netherlands is not the only Member State that is late; we are in the middle. In itself, the European Commission is now empowered to initiate a formal notice procedure against the Netherlands for failing to reach the date of 9 May, but such a procedure takes a long time, with many intermediate steps. I have good hope that the Netherlands will recover in time, to use another sports term. Then we've been asked about Kaspersky. Mrs Buitenweg asked how such a decision would be made. Are there any evidence? Are there any other suppliers that could cause problems? Well, I'd like to point out that tonight we're talking about the Cyber Security Act. So I don't want to get into too much of the Kaspersky case either. I have sent a letter to your Chamber about this and I think it is important that we discuss it in a debate, because this is also much more about foreign interference. I would like to indicate how we came to the decision and what that means. Three factors have led to this decision. The first was that Kaspersky's antivirus software is very deep in the systems. That is a risk, because if it is manipulated at some point by a mandatory instruction from the Russian government, it can have very serious consequences in these systems. The second is Russian regulations that require companies to cooperate. The third is that the Russian government has an offensive cyber program aimed at the Netherlands and Dutch interests. I explained last week that the latter was based on intelligence from our services. As has been said, how should this relate, for example, to other companies or perhaps even other countries, to the debate on the Kaspersky letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u37	I note that this issue is only a very minor one, but since the Minister has decided to deal with it, I would like to give Mrs Buitenweg the opportunity to ask one question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u38	Thank you. I am asking this question because a colleague of the Minister specifically referred it to this evening and to the Minister last afternoon. So that's why I'm exposing it now. May I ask the Minister for a supplementary letter, in which he describes the requirements in this area and to whom they apply? Because it affects a lot of companies, which are also involved in procurement procedures. For example, can they still use this software or not? What exactly is it about? What requirements do we make to ensure adequate safety? I think it is in the interests of companies that they know where they stand and I do not think that clarity is yet provided by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u39	I find it a little difficult to say a letter about the previous letter if we have not really debated the previous letter, partly because this is a subject that affects only a very small part of this debate, which the President endorses, I understand. I am not saying that to send Mrs Buitenweg away or anything like that, which, by the way, would not be in my power at all. I just want to say that I share her feeling that it is a good thing that we are discussing this issue with each other, but I would suggest that we do so first on the basis of the letter written to your Chamber. Then, on the basis of what comes out of that debate, it may be useful to work out a number of things further for your Chamber. The central term'sustainable security' is, of course, 'national security'. Mr Verhoeven asked a question on the question of unknown vulnerabilities. If unknown vulnerabilities are reported to the NCSC, are they used by the service or the police? Well, I would like to stress that the NCSC's priority is to remedy an unknown vulnerability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u40	This subject too is only very side by side, but I would like to give Mr Verhoeven the opportunity to ask one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u41	It is not a side issue, it is part of the Minister's written reply on this law. It's absolutely not sideways. I will be brief, Mr President, but that goes without saying. It is a priority, yes, I know, but I asked, of course, whether the Minister could clarify or rule out the possibility of that happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u42	By saying "it's first," I'm giving you clarity. I do not think Mr Verhoeven can be surprised if I say that I am not going to exclude this. There may be a situation where the importance of national security is at stake, where the NCSC may well have to provide the services with information on an unknown vulnerability. That can't be ruled out. By saying, as I have begun, that remedying the unknown vulnerability is paramount, I just want to make it very clear that that is the starting point. That is the rule, to which an exception is sometimes possible, in the context of national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u43	Finally, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u44	This is absolutely clearer, and thank you for that. Some things don't rule out the Cabinet, some things don't rule out the Cabinet. This doesn't rule out the Cabinet. That's clear. The Minister also lets us know why. I will come back to this briefly in my second term. I would like to ask the Minister how, should it happen in that exceptional situation, the ethical hacker in question has been dealt with by the unfamiliar vulnerability of the National Cyber Security Centre.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u45	I'm just thinking. I would also like to say something about this in the second term, if that is all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u46	Then the Minister will return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u47	Yes, I understand that point, but we must address each other equally well in the second term. Mrs Buitenweg has asked whether three reports of an incident are not too much of a good thing and whether there should be one point of contact. It is true that in the event of certain incidents, a provider may have to report this to three different authorities. I'm just gonna name them. With the CSIRT, with the competent authority and then possibly also with the AP, the Dutch Data Protection Authority, if personal data are at stake. Those three bodies have distinct tasks which require them to receive all reports of a serious incident as immediately as possible. The NCSC if it is the CSIRT in that case shall be all those abbreviations for the public each time to provide assistance. The competent authority requires you to report it because of the supervisory function and the Personal Data Authority for those specific supervisory tasks on the personal data. Mrs Buitenweg rightly pointed out that the technical burden of these reporting obligations would require only one act to be notified to those authorities, because that would save everyone a great deal. Departments, supervisors and NCSC are currently in the process of consulting and will come to a decision later this year, if it is right. In addition, it will be reviewed with the Dutch Data Protection Authority whether at any time this reporting obligation can be met with as little additional burden as possible. Mr Van Dam has asked a question about the administrative burden on companies as a result of the double reporting obligation. It is not expected that the reporting obligation in the bill now called "Cybersecurity law" will lead to a large number of notifications for providers of essential services and digital service providers, as I call them, AEDs and DDVs, because only serious incidents need to be reported. The assessment, partly on the basis of the estimates made in the current law, is as follows. A maximum of 10 to 20 reporting incidents and 15 reporting incidents for digital service providers are expected per year from the providers of essential services. The double reporting and additional follow-up actions per incident are estimated to cover an average of 300 minutes. For essential service providers, an additional 40 minutes per incident compared to the NCSC reporting obligation which must already be met. For digital service providers, which are not currently subject to reporting obligations, new administrative burdens per incident are thus 300 minutes. Let us stress very clearly that we are talking about serious incidents. 300 minutes divided by 60, that's five hours. That's quite a lot of time, but a serious incident deserves that attention. As I have already said in reply to a question from Mr Buitenweg, the aim is to establish the obligation of notification in such a way that the dissemination of the necessary information requires only one action to reduce the administrative burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u48	Mrs Buitenweg still has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u49	You also indicated a number of hours. What is the number of hours that should be reported? It says here "as soon as possible" while, for example, the GDPR has a 72-hour notification obligation. Can't that be comparable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u50	I had referred to the fact that new administrative burdens per incident amount to 300 minutes. That's five o'clock. Sorry, I thought I made that clear, but it may not have been the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u51	In any case, can I ask the question about the hours, the obligation to report and the time in which a notification must be made? At the GDPR, that's 72 hours. It says here "as soon as possible." Is it possible to draw a common line in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u52	You want to draw a line in there? Then I have to think for a moment, because there are some substantial differences. This is still to be discussed in a number of questions about the GDPR, which I am going to answer. Well, I'm gonna take that one anyway. Mr President, I hope you will allow me to take a look at that question. Mrs Buitenweg asked whether the implementation is comparable to that of the GDPR, the General Data Protection Regulation. Then I say: no, the bill is hardly comparable to the GDPR. This is about the protection of personal data while the NIS Directive instructs Member States to work on the security of ICT, which is crucial for the proper functioning of society. Those are really two quite separate activities. Mrs Buitenweg asked if we could fill this out as soon as possible along the 72-hour line. I just want to think about how we could do that. I will come back to that in the second term. Mr Verhoeven asked why no providers of essential services are allocated within the healthcare sector. And what about the creation of the Care CERT? First of all, a variety of measures have been and are, of course, being taken to ensure adequate security of ICTs in healthcare. But care is not part of the vital infrastructure, as defined in the regulations. There is great diversity in providers, and there is a possibility of mutual replacement in the healthcare sector. That is why there are no vital providers or suppliers in this sector. designated providers of essential services. Then the Care CERT. A sectoral CERT has been established for the whole healthcare sector. This is specifically responsible for monitoring, preventing and restoring ICT incidents in healthcare. In addition, the VWS Ministry, together with the major umbrella bodies in the sector, has set up an action plan to increase patient data safety. The Minister for Medical Care will periodically inform you about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u53	Mr Alkaya has a question for you on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u54	It is not my point, but it is an important point. Do I understand correctly that, at the moment, there is no obligation in the law for future developments in healthcare, with all kinds of patient data, which we all have critical questions about, to secure such services properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u55	We need to get a good look at this. I have explained that care is not part of the vital infrastructure as it is covered by the directive. I have also explained why that is. I do not want to repeat that again, if you do not point that at me. However, other measures have been taken to ensure adequate protection of ICTs in healthcare, as I underlined. But that's not what we're talking about today. Today we are discussing the explanatory memorandum on this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u56	Mr Alkaya, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u57	Of course. I do not want to go into a definition issue with the Minister about what is a vital service and what is not. I think today is about the question: what organisations do we think should be covered by this law, or at least under the legal obligation to secure their systems properly? I read in the explanatory statement that there is no provision for health care institutions to be covered by this law. D66 has rightly drawn attention to this. This is independent of the question of what a vital service is, because the Minister is still free to say: for these sectors, I still think it is important that they secure systems properly, because they work with patient data. Then how can the Minister... Or let me ask you another way. Does the Minister exclude that in future care institutions will always not be designated as AED? Or, according to this law, can they still be designated as AED, i.e. as a vital service, so that they also need to get their security in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u58	I would like to say right away that I am not going to rule something out by definition. There may be a future development in the healthcare sector which would lead to a situation in which healthcare institutions would still be incorporated into this law. I can't rule that out. The future is a bit of a glass ball. But I want to go back to what I just explained. It is a sum of two elements. The one element that I have also started with is: note that many other measures have been taken to adequately regulate this security in the care sector. The second element is that this regulation simply defines what vital infrastructure is, so what exactly should be covered by these rules under this directive? This definition does not currently cover the healthcare sector. These two elements together explain why healthcare institutions are not designated as providers of essential services. Pay particular attention to the first element. We should not talk about this today, but there are adequate other measures in the care sector. Mr President, I would like to address Mrs Buitenweg's question on how I see my job in cyber security following the news from the past few days about cybersecurity in other ministries. Let me make it quite clear that I fully agree with you, Mrs Buitenweg, that the government should set a good example in cyber security. As a minister, I am a coordinating ruler, which does not mean that I take over the responsibility of others. Each ministry must assume its own responsibility for digital security. My colleague from the Interior said yesterday that he would come forward with a letter. I am in close contact with her about this and will look from the coordinating role at actions that are being deported within the government. Mrs Buitenweg asked if there were any company complaints about summary legislation. My ministry is often in contact with the vital sectors and with the digital service providers, especially with regard to the current legislative proposal and its implementation. Neither have I, nor my fellow executives, so far have shown great complaints. To the extent that there is any doubt as to the exact content, I can inform the Court that the competent authorities concerned and my ministry are currently considering whether and to what extent further rules should be laid down in policies or guidelines. How is the Minister going to report on progress? The Data Processing and Cybersecurity Reporting Act states that we will evaluate three years after the entry into force of the NIB Directive. In the intervening years we will of course look closely at how the implementation is going. Details of progress will be included in the annual cybersecurity progress letter to further inform your Chamber. Mr Van Dam asked if there would be zero measurements in each sector for the current level of security. Sectoral monitoring is under development and is being further developed. It is up to the trade ministers to determine whether such a zero measurement is necessary or desirable in their sector. I really want to leave that to them. Mr Rutte had an interesting idea, I say honestly. He asked me if I'm willing to use police volunteers against cybercrime. Volunteers are now employed by the police. I made a work visit to police volunteers on a Friday night in mid-April. Well, I can assure you that it is extremely impressive what people without any compensation in their spare time, in addition to their regular work, are prepared to do for the police. There are also people who have indicated that they have cyber expertise, which they bring from their regular profession or background. At the moment, we are investigating how we can use these volunteers on cyber. However, there are issues such as the required level of screening, the compatibility with the regular job and the possible follow-up of additional training. I want to say out loud that I very much support this idea. The police are working on it structuralally to see how that can be picked up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u59	Thank you very much for this commitment from the Minister. Is the Minister also prepared to take a look at the English programme in which the police really make an offer to employers and return an offer to employers? They call this "Employer Supported Politicing." It's really moving along: we give free time and pay for it, so this can get a little body. That would be very nice. The companies I talked to said, "We're waiting for that offer from the police, and then we're gonna move along."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u60	We're definitely gonna take that. We need to take on the pluses of our own system in the area of police volunteers, but of course we also need to look at how others around us do that. Mrs Buitenweg asked what I am going to do about information security in ministries, as a result of the debate on accountability. I've already responded to that. Mrs Buitenweg asked whether it would be useful to set up such a coordination mechanism as is provided for in the GDPR, the so-called Article 29 working group. Yes, the NIS Directive places great emphasis on cooperation between Member States. For example, a cooperation group is now active in which all Member States, the European Commission and ENISA participate. That's Article 11 of the NIS Directive. This directive obliges national authorities to inform each other in a variety of places. They should also exchange information on incidents, especially when there are cross-border consequences. I thought I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u61	Mr Van Dam does not agree yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u62	What I have not yet heard from the Minister is my amendment. I imagine he will return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u63	I have it here and I must confess that it is a pity, of course, that Mr Verhoeven is going to use an English word at the last moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u64	It's not gonna be in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u65	I think that's a huge relief now. I would like to say immediately that I leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber. That sounds a bit lukewarm, but I would like to say that I appreciate the fact that a member of your Chamber has looked at how we give this law a good Dutch name. That is certainly not an unnecessary luxury in this case, as my old mother would say, because cybersecurity, we notice, is a difficult concept to let the public understand. With a certain degree of enthusiasm, I leave the opinion on the amendment to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u66	Thank you, Minister. There is another question open for the second time by Mr Verhoeven about ethical hackers and one by Mrs Buitenweg in hours and minutes. I'll take a look at the MPs and see if they need a second term. That's the case. I call Mrs Buitenweg for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are, of course, some issues that are mixed up. A number of issues have to do with this law and a number of issues are related to it, but are not fully discussed in that law. Cybersecurity, however, is of course a problem that we must tackle in many different ways and which we, as a Chamber, fortunately now have to be much more active on. We will therefore have to continue to discuss this subject in many other debates. I'd like to support my proposal to the Minister. This is about that working group, by analogy with the article 29 working group of the GDPR. Why does that matter to me? The Minister is now saying that there is a kind of coordination mechanism where we inform each other, but it has to go further, of course, precisely to ensure that there is a fair playing field. I certainly do not dare to use 'level playing field' and that the legislation is applied in the same way throughout the European Union. It goes a little further. That's why I've prepared a motion. The Minister will then be able to comment on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the establishment of an EU cybersecurity working group, similar to the WP29 GDPR Working Group, can help ensure that cybersecurity legislation is applied in the same way in all EU Member States;]] [[calls on the government at EU level to support the establishment of an EU cybersecurity working group to promote the uniform application of the EU cybersecurity directive,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34883-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u68	I have a question for Mrs Buitenweg. I understand from the Minister's reply that in the Netherlands there are 15 reports each year from one category and 20 from the other. Doesn't Mrs Buitenweg think it's a little too good to set up a whole working group, or whatever, at European level, on the GDPR? The GDPR is also quite a heavy phenomenon. Could she perhaps explain that a little further, because that might help me to determine my position in relation to her motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u69	I can tell Mr Van Dam that such a working group is actually already there, just not entirely with the same task. The main issue now is that things should be aligned, while I think it is important that joint agreements are made on how something should be interpreted, precisely so that there is indeed a level playing field. It is therefore clear not only how the directive is implemented in the Netherlands but also in Germany or Italy. So it is not the case that a whole group of new people should be brought together, because they are already there. That group will have a new task and I think it is a limited adjustment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u70	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mr Alkaya on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. In the first term, I put in two points. The first was that internet devices are becoming more common. Why shouldn't they be governed by the law? The second is the question of why the designation of the organisation where the notifications from Internet service providers should come in suddenly goes by Royal Decree. Both answers gave me the feeling that the cabinet was particularly concerned about the two considerations that we must now move quickly to implementation and that we do not want national headlines. It is about speed and not about how we can make this law fit in with our wishes as best we can, so that we have a good and sustainable law that can last for years. And I'm sorry about that. I have noticed that with both of these points, and also at the point where I just spoke in my interruptions, the concern, I got a bit of that same feeling. We have taken up the directive and the directive specifically mentions care as a possible sector that can be included in vital services. The minister says that care is not a vital service because there are other options. That way you can go to another hospital. But of course, you do want your patient data to be properly protected by this sector. Hence the next motion. I can reassure the Minister, because this motion is not about amending the law but about the general measure of governance. As a result, no delay can be expected. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the explanatory memorandum to the Cybersecurity Bill states that healthcare providers will not be designated as providers of essential services;]] [[Considering that cybersecurity in health care is crucial for social well-being;]] [[calls on the Government to also designate healthcare providers as essential services provider in the general measure of governance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34883-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not have any motions in itself, and I understand the Minister's views on my amendment. However, on the eve of the entry into force of the GDPR, I would like to take this opportunity to say something. The Minister himself said that we are increasingly discussing cyber security and the security of our data in this Parliament. A while ago, we held a hearing and there someone presented a beautiful picture: we can see it as a problem, but we can also see cybersecurity as we see our battle against the water. Something terrible happened in 1953, but we knew that to turn into one of our most important assets: everywhere in the world there are people from the Netherlands who fight against the water very successfully. It is my hope and ambition to contribute to this. In a country where there are so many nodes of data, I think we should develop a positive view on the subject of data security. I hope that this law will also contribute to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u73	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Arno Rutte on behalf of the VVD. No, he doesn't seem to need a second term. Mr Verhoeven has that on behalf of D66. Then he has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u74	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also to the Minister for replying. At the end of the debate I called something out of the microphone and the Minister assumed that it was an English-speaking term, the term "shredder." I said it in German, by the way. I was talking about the "Schredder." So it was a German term, because we do not speak English here during this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u75	Nor in German, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u76	Oh, I'm sorry. Well, then I've been trespassing, Mr. Chairman, excuse. I actually wanted to use this as a bridge to indicate that I will support Mr Van Dam's amendment on the name of this law. That is therefore immediately clear. Two points in substance. I am going to chew on Mr Alkaya's motion from the SP, versus, or in the light of, the Minister's response to the health sector. I am very curious to hear the Minister's opinion. I understand Mr Alkaya's motion, but I have to see if the Minister's reply is sufficiently reassuring for us. I can see that he was trying to indicate that there is indeed an organisation in the care sector to ensure that vitality is sufficient. Finally, the point of that zero-day. I would like to come back to that in the second term. That's now and I'm just gonna do it by way of a motion. I make a motion by which I do not immediately close the cabinet exceptions that the Minister wants to keep open, but at the same time express the fact that I think it is very important that the NCSC should keep the task which the Minister says is the primary task of closing and helping to correct unknown software errors. I'd like to do that by means of the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas in some cases the National Cyber Security Centre provides the AIVD (and STIVD) with information on unknown vulnerabilities reported by ethical hackers, and that the services may use this information to hack;]] [[Whereas such a practice may hinder a safer internet and may impede the position of the NCSC;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that information on unknown vulnerabilities reported to the NCSC by researchers, ethical hackers or others is always passed on to the creator of the software in which the unknown vulnerability was found,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34883-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u77	I will reopen the meeting and gladly give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had two further questions open for the second term, which was actually a semi-first term. They came up in the interruptions in the first term. Mr Verhoeven had asked what we are doing with that ethical hacker. Data of the hacker shall be treated confidentially by the NCSC. There is also contact with the hacker about the follow-up of the notification. I welcome working with those hackers. All this does not alter the fact that sometimes information has to be provided to the services because of national security. Of course, no more information will be provided than is necessary. I shall return later to the motion by Mr Verhoeven. Mrs Buitenweg asked in an interruption in the first term: how soon would you have to report such an incident? Can you match that term to that of the GDPR? That does not seem desirable. In the ICT incidents that this bill is about, it is important to make first contact with the CSIRT and the supervisor very quickly. The digital fire needs to be put out first. At that time, causes are often unknown. 72 hours can be far too long for first contact. So you really shouldn't set such a limit. You just have to say as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u79	I also asked because the Minister had said that he would look at one counter instead of three. I would like to say to him that it is important to consider that there are different hourly limits.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u80	Let me say one technical portal that can lead to multiple reports. That's how I see it. Perhaps I find the word "stop shop" too restrictive. Mrs Buitenweg had also asked: why not the possibility of some kind of binding judgement at EU level as with the GDPR? Well, such a mechanism is not in the NIB Directive. This legislative proposal is limited to the implementation of that Directive. However, we are going to work closely together in the EU, as I said. That also brings me to the motion on part No. 9 by Mrs Buitenweg, whom I really must advise against. I think that an EU working group is still far too heavy at the moment. We must first look at how the Member States are all working on the obligations of the NIS Directive and then determine the necessity and the way in which it is to be implemented. Then there are two other motions. First of all, the motion in part No. 10 by Mr Alkaya. Okay, here's the thing. I have already explained why care is not a vital infrastructure. But just so we're clear, that's what the Secretary of State for Medical Care has indicated. He has judged: it is not vital. It's primarily his responsibility. I really think that if you want to debate the substance of this matter, it should be done separately with him. In addition, should it become apparent that the Minister of Trade says that something might be vital infrastructure, for example after a discussion or a debate with your Chamber, I will not find it a problem to do so. However, I would like to emphasise that there are a great many guarantees in the area of ICT security in the healthcare sector. In this area, we have to comply with all kinds of NEN directives that guarantee this. That's what I've been saying. That is an important point, which means that there is a guarantee for me at the point of concern. I'm dissuading the motion. So I would suggest to Mr Alkaya that we discuss this with the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u81	The Minister for Medical Care has therefore indicated to this Minister that he does not consider it vital. I do not think that the explanations given to us in the explanatory statement are sufficient. I think the healthcare providers should be covered. Would I please the Minister if we let him know in this way that we expect a written explanation from the Minister for Medical Care explaining why the care should not be covered by this law? Then I can hold my motion and maybe I'll let you convince me. It seems strong to me, but I do not think that it is a good story as it stands in the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u82	You should never go into reviews of your own work, so I won't. I would like to stress once again that it is not a vital infrastructure, and that is what the Minister really is about, and that is the one for Medical Care. The other point is, once again, that we already have a lot of rules and directives that have to be complied with, so that there is already a guarantee. This has to do with the specific nature of the healthcare sector. I said in my first term that if, for example, part of one particular hospital were to fall out, replacement would be possible very quickly. This is quite different from those companies that are really included in the vital infrastructure. I want to leave it at that, otherwise I'm gonna tire you out with repeats, and I shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u83	Nevertheless, I believe that the safety of the Internet and cyber security should really be in place for healthcare providers, although I might also be able to go to another hospital if one hospital fails. Still, I want my patient records properly secured. That is why I think I will stick to my own proposal. I'm holding this motion. That motion could in principle be put to the vote until November, if we expect the General Measure of Management. In the meantime, I would like to ask the President to make a request to the Minister for Medical Care to send this committee further information on why care should not be covered by this law, so it should not be designated as a vital service in the general measure of governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u84	I would advise Mr Alkaya to ask for that on Tuesday at the meeting and I note that he is holding his motion for a resolution for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u85	At the request of Mr Alkaya, I propose his motion (34883, No. 10), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u86	This is a specific request to a minister other than this minister. We can ask this minister if he is prepared to ask the Minister of Health. If the Minister agrees to do so, that's fine. If the Minister is not prepared to do so, then next week Mr Alkaya will have to ask the Minister for Health to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u87	The Minister of Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u88	The Minister of Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u89	I am not going to pass on that request, and I really do have a point of principle in that. Mr Alkaya does not address the point that I have already mentioned several times that is really important, apart from the point that concerns do not qualify for vital infrastructure. This is something other than that we consider care, good care, not very important and that we do not consider the safety of patient data to be very important. It is a question of ensuring that care does not have its own security arrangements. If a motion is held, it is not for me to give further judgment. A possible letter from the colleague is not my decision. I explained that at least he didn't qualify it. I just wanted to leave it at that. Mr President, I would like to move on to the third and final motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u90	Mr. Alkaya, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u91	I am sorry for the Minister that he has not been able to convince me, but I will then make a request to the Minister for Medical Care through the scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u93	Well, I would have liked to have had the substantive discussion here on that question. I said, care has that security. If we do not discuss this, I find it particularly regrettable, but it must be done in a different way. Finally, I come to a motion by Mr Verhoeven on the unknown vulnerabilities. Let me say that I can leave that motion to the House if I may explain it in such a way that there is still an exception in those situations where, in the NCSC's view, there is an interest in national security. That is actually what I said in the first term. If we agree on that, I will leave the motion to the House's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u94	I think I agree with the Minister. As far as I'm concerned, I would like the NCSC to let the company that makes the software know. And I think that fits exactly within the system that is common, namely that on the one hand you have the opportunity to restore a vulnerability, and on the other hand, in the case where it is really necessary, that vulnerability also gives to another, but it must also be reported to the software creator.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u95	In the first period, I indicated that there could be exceptional situations in which this could not be done, on the basis of national security. If I can read that in the motion, I can leave her judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u96	Mr Van Dam suddenly has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u97	Mr President, I am aware that I am in a debate with the Minister, but I hope that perhaps three U-turns will lead me to Mr Verhoeven. Let me put it this way: if the Minister gives Chamber judgment, I would appreciate it, given the extremely sensitive element that can play here, if there is a motion on paper in which we do not have to read things, but where things are just in it. I would therefore very much appreciate it if the text of the motion would be amended in order to really remove any doubts in that regard. That would make it a lot easier for me with that "judge chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u98	We are not going to debate with each other through the Minister and the President, but I would nevertheless like to give Mr Verhoeven the opportunity to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u99	Yes. I get the Minister's point. He says: there are situations where national security is at stake which make us want to see unknown vulnerabilities reported by the NCSC to the services. I can see that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u100	And even situations where the services are notified and it is not reported to the creator at that time in exceptional cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u101	That last one doesn't match my motion. I find an amendment to the motion too much to dive into the area that I wanted to clarify. So I would not like to see my motion explained as the Minister explains to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u102	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u103	So then the minister will...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u104	Then I'll have to dissuade her for reasons I've explained. Mr Verhoeven and I have heard enough in this debate to know what it is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u105	Mr Verhoeven, all the way to the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u106	Yes, and I would like to stress that my motion does not include the use of this unknown vulnerability, but at the same time I would like to see a situation in which the company can work with this unknown vulnerability. So I think there are two routes at the same time. But it is never a journey in which the company that created the software is not informed in favour of the services. That's what I want to rule out. That is a different reading from that of the Minister, so we must be clear, as Mr Van Dam has requested. Then the minister is the one who's deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u107	We were already past that station and that is clear. I offered you that lecture. It is not so much my reading as the question: can we understand the motion in this way? Mr President, I would just like to explain why I am against this motion. I dissuade her because there are situations where... No, let me just say this. This motion is so general that the general exception that there may be a situation that one wishes to report to the services is not clearly included in the motion. In addition, the motion, I understand from the explanatory statement, completely excludes the situation that it is decided, for reasons of national security, that the software maker should not, in exceptional cases, report that unknown vulnerability. That means I have to discourage the motion, strongly discourage it. Mr. Chairman. I've come to the end of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u108	I thank the Minister. That is the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-24-tweedekamer-10.u109	I propose that we vote on Tuesday on the law, the amendment and both motions. Thank you very much, thank the participants, thank the viewers. I wish everyone a good and safe journey home.
