ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u1	The next item is the debate on the failure of the negotiations on a new pension agreement. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and give Mr Klaver the floor on behalf of GroenLinks. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u2	Mr President, thank you. Today we are debating the pension agreement that has not been reached. Last week the newspapers were full of it, it was written about it and it was discussed on television. There was only one question: who did it? Whose fault is it? It refers to the trade union movement. It points to left-wing parties. They were obstinate! They didn't want to! They didn't want to jump! Where was the leadership? That's one way to look at it. I think that everyone here thinks that a new pension system should be created, but I am pleased that the system did not become that one. I think it's wise, too. It shows that the trade union movement is self-conscious. GroenLinks has made demands, just like the left-wing colleagues. We don't just do that. The way this Prime Minister was able to make deals was magical. It has to be said: in 2008 Mark Rutte saw well that there was an economic crisis coming. He said, "Follow me, because I know how to get out of here, by cutting back and undressing the welfare state further." Almost all of us here, including my party, have worked on it at some point. But times have changed. It is no longer time to undress the welfare state further, but to build it further. This was now the case: a new pension system, which provides more security for more people. That is why we need a new system. In that sense, it's a missed opportunity. At the moment 1.6 million people in the Netherlands are not building up a pension. We have to make sure they do that later. It is impossible for employers to pay a pension premium for people who are now going through life as a self-employed person but who are actually just employees. When we raised the AOW age, with many parties in this Chamber, we had a promise. Do we remember? People with heavy professions should be able to stop working sooner. That promise didn't come true at all. That too we have to recover. If we want the AOW age to continue to rise in the future, we have to be honest. Because, yes, we're getting older, but the time we live in good health is also getting shorter. The differences between high- and low-skilled are enormous. This calls for major adjustments to the pension agreement. And yes, you can blame the trade union movement. You can blame left-wing parties. Do that, I'd like to say to the Prime Minister. But you can also accept that something has changed in society, that the middle is no longer the middle, that the consensus that was there for years is no longer the consensus. More certainty is needed for more people. I would like to say to the Prime Minister: meet us in the middle. The question is not whether we want to make concessions or make agreements, but whether the Prime Minister is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u3	I wonder if it's gonna be okay. Mr Klaver says to the Prime Minister: give us concessions. But we are talking about an agreement on a pension fund of EUR 1,400 billion that belongs to the social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u4	I think one of the problems is that the contract has been negotiated recently, but this is not the only thing when you talk about a new pension system. I find it impossible, and I hope that Mr Buma will join me, that 1.6 million people in the Netherlands will not be able to build up a pension. Renewing the pension system is a historic thing. You do that once every 20, 30 years. Once every 50 years, I think the Prime Minister said. Then you also have to make sure you answer the question of who the system is for. Then you get to all those payrollers, people who work in the temporary agency business andzzp'ers. They must also be able to build up pensions in this country. If you don't take care of that, you're gonna miss a huge opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u5	Now Mr Klaver has said a lot about the AOW age and so on. Now we are talking about a part of the Netherlands that cannot actually build a pension, but that is, once again, consultation between employers and employees. Does Mr Klaver now say 'leave the polder and we will solve it here' or does he think that this is something of consultation between employers and employees, because they have responsibility for the EUR 1,400 billion for pensions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u6	If you want to create a new pension system, it is also about the pension contract, about the 1,400 billion that are in the pension funds. This is something that the social partners need to talk to each other about, and they need to agree on what that looks like. But a system is more than 1,400 billion. A system is also about the rules of compulsoryation. And guess what? That's what we're dealing with here. So that is the question of who in the Netherlands is building up a pension. That is a question we cannot just put to the social partners. Then we will have to say here in politics: we are prepared to ensure thatzzp'ers in this country can also build up pensions. When it comes to the AOW, it is also part of a new pension system. Then we must give them political answers. That is why this is a shared responsibility. I do not want to take responsibility away from the social partners. It is there and it must remain there, but we must have the courage, as a politician, to move in this direction. And if we do, I think the polder can succeed in reaching an agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u7	If you bring in all these things, the question is why you didn't say so when the pension partners started negotiating, but you are doing so now, at the end. That's one. Two: the fact remains that because there is no pension agreement young people are going to pay too much premium, there is probably a long-term need to be stamped too quickly in the distant future and we have a non-sustainable system, just because different partners cannot get out of it. You can then shout "dead at the center, the flanks are going to determine," but I tell you one thing: the way you choose is calling from the sidelines and not solving from the center.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u8	I think I made a very different plea. Mr Buma as foreman of the CDA talks about what is the middle and about the political consensus that has been there for years in the Netherlands. I say society is changing. People no longer accept the undressing of the welfare state. They want more welfare state. Mr Buma may have to get used to it, but he no longer speaks for what the majority in the Netherlands wants. I'm saying it's time for a new consensus that we need to find each other. I am prepared to do so, but that means that we must have the political courage to ensure that those who cannot now guarantee a pension can. When it comes to the AOW, which is really our responsibility, Mr Buma, we need to take steps in that; that AOW age is going to rise less rapidly and for people with heavy professions we come up with a solution. This is the new political reality, Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u9	I have heard more binding reactions to an interruption. I have also heard that Mr Klaver says everywhere "it is my way or the highway" or: I find Mr Buma with his seats not so interesting anymore, it goes in the GroenLinks way from now on. But doesn't that also give a great deal of responsibility to come up with proposals to work together? I hear Mr Klaver saying that he does not want all kinds of things, but this way we do not have a pension agreement. He actually says: that polder should keep its mouth shut for a while, because politics is the move. That's weird, isn't it? That 1,400 billion isn't yours and not mine, but isn't it polder?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u10	No, it's not polder, it's from all those people who worked very hard in the Netherlands to build up that pension money. I do not know if you have listened carefully, but I have indicated what I would very much like to do, namely that people in this country are going to retire, that we are going to arrange for people in heavy professions to retire earlier, as we promised them, and that the age of AOW is going to increase fairly. Those are three things that I want us to take care of. But I also read in the newspaper the magic words that were spoken towards the trade union movement: jump, jump, do it. And they didn't. I'm proud of that. Do you know why? Because there was a time when the trade union movement did agree to some cabinet proposals. There's no more time. I would like to say: accept this new reality. You can say: you must agree to the plans we have. I say: if you really want a broad consensus, then we need to listen better to the ideas that the trade union movement brings and what the left brings, and we need to listen a little less to what the employers are calling for. That's my point of view, Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u11	I think there's been a lot of talk in the polder for years. The coalition agreement was based on the state of mind in the Economic and Social Council. I sometimes have the impression that you are listening to the SP: I demand this and I demand it. Mr Klaver has indeed declared the political centre dead, but the solutions in this country come from the political centre. I'm still charging GroenLinks for that. Do you even consider yourself to be the political centre?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u12	My whole plea is that we must meet in the middle and come to a new consensus with each other. I'm just indicating the distance that D66 now has. In the old days D66 still had some left-wing traits, but gradually it is very far away. We need to meet in the middle. And I am saying that the step taken by the right-wing parties here is a lot bigger. And the time when the left agreed to right-wing plans is far, far away! Behind us. And then ask me if I'm willing to work together. Always, but that does mean that we are going to do a few things differently here in the Netherlands. We're not gonna tear down the welfare state, we're gonna build it up. That's what we're gonna do, Mr. Van Weyenberg. That is the new political reality. And that is also the new political centre.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u13	I think there were all plans to give people a better chance of retirement. There were also offers about the less rapid rise of the AOW. These are all things that the trade union movement needs attention to. They were very close to an agreement in those areas. And to show happiness here about the failure of the dialogue between the social partners... I can't feel that joy. I have one specific question, because I have not heard Mr Klaver on one thing. I'm happy about that, and I just want to make sure it's true. This is about increasing the rate of calculation. In the current contract, with a collective pot, you have to be careful with that. That is what De Nederlandsche Bank thinks, and I think that was also in the concept of SER advice. Does Mr Klaver still think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u14	Before I go into that, first of all. Mr Van Weyenberg says that I am here to welcome the fact that there is no agreement. I believe that a new pension system is needed. But that, in the end, no agreement was reached on what was now on the table, as far as we know, I say: that is sensible and I think that is good. And I would like to emphasise here in about every sentence I say that a new pension system needs to be created. This is not sustainable at the moment, not for the elderly and not for young people. Then there's the question about the accounting rate. The calculation rate must also be discussed. I think that the cabinet, as well as De Nederlandsche Bank and the ministry, have held on far too hard that nothing should change. We have to be careful, but now we're so careful that we count our poor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u15	Proceed, Mr. Clover. You were sort of finishing up, I think. Oh, first of all, Mr Van Weyenberg!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u16	I now miss the Jesse Klaver from the past, who said: "We must value future liabilities not on the basis of expected returns, but on the basis of market interest rates. Otherwise it would be bad for young people." I miss that Jesse Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u17	This is very interesting. Mr Van Weyenberg has already referred a number of times to the past, for example when it came to the pension contract. He said: "Since 2011, negotiations have been under way. Didn't we write down in the coalition agreement what's about there?" Mr Van Weyenberg refers to positions that I have indeed taken: 'That was your position, wasn't it?' Mr. Van Weyenberg, the world has changed a lot in the meantime. Since 2011, morezzp'ers have joined. And I am not talking about entrepreneurs, but I am talking about people who actually work at a company: they are simply exploited and there is no pension premium paid for that. That also means something for the way you look at pensions. Indeed, at the height of the economic crisis, I felt that we should sit on the most prudent and cautious side of these interest rates. In the meantime, and my party has said this before, we are now so careful that we count our poor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u18	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u19	Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on. I stand for young people, but in this country I also stand for the elderly. And the moment we only record it for one group, something goes wrong in the Netherlands. Ultimately, we do not need an agreement between political parties, but a generation pact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u20	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u21	Mr. Chairman. Finally, because you said I had to go to a roundabout. The fact that we all did not get out and that there is no new pension system means that pension reductions are now threatening. We shouldn't let that happen. After all, pensioners must not be the victims of all our political inability. That is why my colleague Paul Smeulders will be submitting an initiative law extending the recovery period for pension funds by two years. That gives people who now have a pension air because they don't get cut short. And that gives us the expensive responsibility to ensure that, in the time we are given as a reserve time, I would like to say that we are working on a new pension system for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u22	I welcome Mr Klaver's speech that GroenLinks is not only defending the young but also defending the elderly. That's a reinforcement of the front, for everyone, by the way, young and old. But I have a question for Mr Klaver. In defending the draft initiative law, I announced that if my draft initiative law is rejected, I am sure that the cabinet will come up with a proposal. The Prime Minister actually did that last week on that Thursday night. But we have a draft law ready, an initiative draft, to considerably extend the deadline. That will be submitted one of these days. I am also pleased that 50PLUS now supports that initiative of ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u23	Green Left, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u24	I think everyone got the message.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u25	It takes some getting used to for the broad support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u26	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u27	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u28	Mr. Chairman. Be sure of a decent pension and a dignified old age, a lot of Dutch people long for that. And that's why it's a shame it didn't succeed in reaching a pension agreement. That is an extra sin under the current economic circumstances, when there was actually a golden opportunity to settle it properly, for now and for later. What was on the table? What was on the table is that a lot of Dutch people are afraid that they are not going to make it, that they are not going to make it to retirement age. Because they have a hard job, because they started out super young, because they are on top, and a lot of young people are wondering: do we really have to work a year longer for every year that we live longer? Is that fair? Is that okay? Therefore, it is very important to do something about the increase in the AOW age. Then when I see what the cabinet offered, it was an intention and a commission. We know that many Dutch people now have little or no pension: self-employed workers, temporary workers, payrollers. We also know that if you want to settle that, employers will have to pay for it. What does the Cabinet say about that? "Police unfeasible." That means, "we don't want to do that." Then you know that many Dutch people have been longing for years for the indexation of pensions and that a new system should increase the prospect of increasing those pensions. It is also very important for workers, who work part of their pensions every day. What does Cabinet say about that? "A committee should look into that." And four, we know that changing the premium system for about 40 to 60 billion euros will have effects on the present 40s. The cabinet says, "that's something for a commission." Doesn't the Cabinet offer you anything? Yes, they sent Minister Koolmees with a huge knife to a turkey with the message: go make a nice Christmas dinner. After all, all the money that is required must be found in the Social Affairs budget, precisely where poverty, pensions, WW and assistance are regulated. The turkey said no, the deal collapsed and what does the cabinet do next? The cabinet's gonna throw mud. Mud throwing: "It is completely incomprehensible that the union did not want to support this." Not for a second does the Prime Minister have any doubts about it, or he could convince the FNV's supporters. I don't think it's chic, but I don't think it's professional with your negotiating partners if you question their intentions like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u29	Mr Asscher referred to it as working longer. It was not so long ago, a few years ago, that I was in the opposition and was visited by Minister Asscher of Social Affairs together with Secretary of State Klijnsma, with the urgent request to agree to an acceleration of the start of the AOW age at 67. Does he suddenly come back to that? Or how am I supposed to look at the conversation that was held back then?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u30	I came back to that in January 2017 and I came back to that in April of this year, because we should not have done that. We have agreed in crisis time, by advocacy of the VVD, we have carried that out and there is a lot of those years that I will defend to this day and for many years to come. We shouldn't have done this. The price has been too high. That is why we proposed in April how to make AOW more flexible for people with a heavy occupation and how to change that link. That's what we did. We have had a wide-ranging discussion, text and explanation of this. I've talked to people about it myself. I think we should do this differently and that this is the golden moment, when we are happy to be under a much better economic star.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u31	But how am I supposed to deal with things that Minister Asscher said at the time if Mr Asscher, the group leader, says now when I have to keep in mind that it could be something completely different a year later? "I shouldn't have done that." At that time, it was very definite that it was necessary. A little while later, it's something completely different. How can you even conclude long-term agreements like a pension agreement when you flip flop from year to year, depending on how you like it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u32	I don't think that's exactly a fair response to what I said. I apologized for this measure. It's not the first time I've done that here. I did that on television in the direction of people themselves. I have not done so on many issues, but I have done so on this subject, because, looking back, I say that the price we asked for then, in crisis time, was too high for people who did not threaten to reach retirement age. I'll get back to you on that. I'm being honest about that. I don't think I'm someone who's been changing my mind all day. If I do, I'll be honest with you. I would find it fair of you and show respect for the debate we are having if you were to respond to what I am saying. Now, unlike five years ago, we have a chance to deal with things differently. In my view, that is decent towards Dutch people who are not at risk of reaching their retirement age. Then you can still do it in a financially responsible way and then you have to want to do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u33	Finally, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u34	In the longer term, the problems remain the same. They didn't disappear like snow before the sun; that's my point. But I still want to tell you how it might be. That would be my final point, Mr President, because I am already on the three points. The CDA was in opposition and was sometimes critical of the cabinet. But a social agreement has been reached by the previous cabinet, including by you. We had a lot of comments on that. We could have said: well, that stupid Rutte cabinet, give them a tap; we're not gonna do it. But what have we done? We thought that this was not about the cabinet at all, but that it was about the future of the labour market, just as it is about the future of pensions, not the cabinet. And do you know what we've done? We supported it. There has been a great deal of criticism of this, but still there is a difference with you. I support what I did then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u35	That is very easy, because there is no social agreement at all. You didn't do it. Otherwise, I would have liked to give my opinion on it. I found that in times of crisis, at a time of austerity, I concluded a social agreement with the trade union movement and the employers. Why have these unions become so suspicious? Because not you, but the rest of the right and the employers came back the day after the agreement was concluded. The day before the introduction of the law that came out of it, we had a debate here as to why that law had failed. It hadn't been introduced yet. And now, before it was even agreed with the social partners, the law it was about would be evaluated, he will be changed again with your support. D66's gonna do better and different. Don't come to me with a lack of confidence in what's going on there. It is the right in the Netherlands that from the very beginning has dealt with the agreements with the trade union movement and has got rid of them in all ways. The employers haven't shook a day. They didn't want to do the third year of WW. They didn't hire people like they agreed. It was all with long teeth. The trade union movement has seen very well that was the way there was with social... Look, if that's support for an agreement, never mind. At least that's what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u36	I am aware that Mr Asscher has a warm relationship with the FNV. Can he explain how that went? Has Mr Asscher been included in the whole process? Did he know step by step what the unions were doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u37	I had two coffees from Minister Koolmees when he told me what he had in mind. I've heard from the trade union movement orally what sort of happened. I didn't sit there at the table. I have just made a number of observations on what is required. I asked by letter today where the magical amount of the 7 billion came from. Mark Rutte is walking around. I have 7 billion. Where did that come from? You may have seen the letter. It's got 200 million in it. 200 million, and then you're surprised people don't trust you. My message is next. If this coalition says all the time "the rest is crazy, you're all wrong, we know what the national interest is," just like it did with the dividend tax, it's not gonna work. It didn't work on the dividend tax and it doesn't work on the pensions. Be honest with me about what you've offered. EUR 200 million structuralally is not enough to do what is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u38	I'm asking for a very different reason. The moment the negotiations collapsed, the FNV seemed to have a press release ready. My question to Mr Asscher is: did he know in advance that this conversation would collapse?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u39	Absolutely not. In fact, I am truly disappointed that no pension agreement has been reached. I believe that this was and is a golden opportunity to do something about the rise in retirement age and to protect self-employed people more. I think it is a golden opportunity to ensure that people have a higher pension and that we have a system that will work for old and young. I think it is a shame that this cabinet with the wind in its sails, with the biggest surplus since the 1970s, says: "Do you know what we have left for this historic agreement and this reconstruction? 200 million structuralally."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u40	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u41	The cabinet went tossing mud. The cabinet went to point the finger. You can see it here in the coalition. They're all offended that there are no compliments and flowers. What's bid is just not good enough. I think it's a shame. It fits the trend. We see a coalition that prefers 500 test balloons to do whatever it takes. The government agreement provides for the protection of the self-employed. That was postponed until after the election. An energy agreement is a bitter necessity. That was postponed until after the state elections. A pension agreement is a bitter necessity. It's a golden opportunity. But it's been postponed until...? We don't know until when. In the meantime, these test balloons are going up. Prick! Prick! Prick! Prick! Prick! Prick! We see ministers arguing about a European army. A coalition partner says: I want to abolish the student loan, but first I raise the interest rate. A lot of Dutch people, young and old, want a golden opportunity to arrange a decent pension, to make sure that those people with heavy professions can get out sooner. But you're gonna miss that opportunity. My appeal to the cabinet would be: you come into the danger zone with those test balloons and you arrive at your expiration date if you think you're ruling this way. Go rule and go back to the polder. Come up with a decent offer and sign a pension agreement. Then the Labour Party will support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u42	This is your last question, Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u43	Madam President, I am going to ask my question, but you are going to get me off my back. Is this the very last question of my parliamentary career?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u44	Yeah, tonight, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u45	Now you mustn't applaud. That's not nice. Mr President, if you stick strictly to it, I will put my question to another speaker later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u46	That's good. Then that's what we'll do. Thank you, Mr. Asscher. Mr De Jong has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u47	Mr President, thank you very much. Let me say straight away: Minister Koolmees and Prime Minister Rutte have failed in the entire negotiating circus around a new pension system. Precious months have been lost. Months in which Rutte instead of having long back-room conversations could have chosen to work for the Dutch people. If you really care about the millions of pension participants and if you really want to restore trust in our pension system, you don't negotiate about preventing pension discounts. Then you don't negotiate about allowing indexing. Then you do not negotiate a regulation for people who have difficulty reaching retirement age. No, you just take care of it. Then you adjust the calculation rate so that pension funds with EUR 1,400 billion in cash do not have to charge unnecessarily poor, preventing discounts for millions of people. Then you make sure that you really increase people's purchasing power by finally making pension indexing possible in the short term after years of stagnation and decline. Then you don't let people go sick towards their retirement age, but then you freeze at least the AOW-age, or even better than you put it at 65. You don't need a pension agreement for that at all. You need decency for that. But Mark Rutte doesn't have decency anymore. Minister Koolmees also lacks some compassion with all those participants, young and old, workers and pensioners. You know, all those Dutch people we should be talking about today. These people can go to hell for this minister. This cabinet therefore does not intend, on its own initiative, to make room for a fairer retirement age and to look seriously at all the possibilities for improvements within the current system where necessary. Because yes, supposedly too difficult, supposedly too expensive, but meanwhile billions of people go to Africa every year laughing, our borders are wide open to non-Western profiteers who come to destroy our welfare state. For them there is enough money, but Dutch people have already checked. Shameful. Prime Minister Rutte should be ashamed of himself. What an unprecedented disarray these months. Just admit it. Stop pointing at the unions, as if they were the culprits of all this. You are the great culprit here. You're taking away all those millions of Dutch...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u48	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u49	...have been a good retirement for years. The Prime Minister set us up. He's been doing that for years. He's taking away people's pension. The Prime Minister looks away from all those Dutch people who are worried about their retirement, while action is needed. Now make sure that our current system becomes attractive again to all generations. Restore the trust. You don't do that by throwing all kinds of doom scenarios and scare-making into the world and negotiating endlessly without results, as has happened in recent years. That is a waste of time, and that affects confidence in our pension system. Of course, we need to see how we can keep it sustainable for all generations, but the current discussion goes beyond that. It's about breaking down the most beautiful pension system in the world. I'm rounding up. Appreciate our pension system and withdraw those unfortunate pension losses immediately. Avoid discounts, allow indexing and give people the prospect of a fair retirement age and a fair pension benefit, for all those who have worked and paid for it for a lifetime, for now and in the future. If the Prime Minister does not do so, he will prove once again to be a lousy Prime Minister and the electorate, more than he already intended, will deal with him hard and hard at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u50	Thank you. Mr Azarkan has the floor on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u51	Mr. Chairman. What's going on with Prime Minister Rutte? Is this Prime Minister still able to lead the cabinet, with all the challenges ahead? He came in and said, "We want to do business with you. What do you all need to jump?" His magic formula. He had flown in by the powerless Minister of Social Affairs to drag the pension agreement through like a real end boss. He came in as an ultimate relationship therapist, but by his actions alone, the attendees already pronounced the divorce on the spot. What's this Prime Minister missing? The answer is simple: trust. Without trust, employers don't make investments. Without confidence, consumers do not spend. Without confidence, the financial markets will not work. Without confidence, the whole polder does not work and the consultation economy certainly does not work. Because on mutual trust you can build an entire civilization, but this Prime Minister has made sure that the unions no longer trust him. Do you remember Rutte's promises? €1000 for every hardworking Dutchman, there is not a penny going to Greece, there are no memos about abolishing the dividend tax. And the last one: I am not available for high office in Europe. Mark Rutte is not happy either, because his VVD colleagues throw in one test balloon after another. In doing so, they create a greater distrust of politics. It doesn't matter how impossible, no matter how silly or undesirable the test balloon is, as long as they are allowed to be on the front pages of De Telegraaf. But there are limits to what you as a parliamentarians can spread about society, yes, also as an arrogant VVD'er. Now Zijlstra's datha was already dramatically embarrassing, we now know the gene theory of Stef Blok, Klaas postcoderacisme- Dijkhoff, Malik refugees not welcome-Azmani and recently, last night the contribution of Wybren van Haga, the long-held gem of the VVD. I can also see why now, because he wants to boost the gross start-up rate across Africa by reducing fertility. €3 in, €124 out. That's what happens when you put a real estate dealer on the foreign aid file. In his view, Africa is an area with a low loan to value and money can be made by issuing new lots as long as it is not too fertile per square metre. Mr. Chairman. Dijkhoff's last test balloon was completely disgusting when he advocated the abolition of trade unions. They've had their longest time. If they don't want to do what our Prime Minister asks, then there's no basis for support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u52	What does Mr. Azarkan intend to do with our pensions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u53	I will serve you at your beck and call, Mr Van der Linde. If you'll allow me to finish my story, you'll find that I'm also going to answer your question. Mr. Chairman. The trade unions had not forgotten the betrayal of 2011 and 2012. The agreements of the pension agreement with the Rutte I cabinet were thrown into the dirt by the Rutte II cabinet without consultation with the social partners. This did not come with a regulation for heavy-duty professions and increased the AOW age. Rutte's words turned out to be nothing. The trust was completely gone and the crumbs that this cabinet assigns to the unions were completely inadequate. What good does it do the street maker with broken knees if he is entitled to retire from this cabinet at the age of 66 instead of at the age of 67? My party has argued for it many times, but for seven years people with a small pension have not received a penny, Mr Van der Linde, while money goes to large multinationals. That's where they're going to bake money. That's where billions go. In seven years, disposable income has fallen by 8.3%. Thezzp'ers have to do it with a sloppy offer from this cabinet. What the cabinet is offering is completely inadequate. It looked like 7 billion, but in the letter there was an amount of 200 million over fifteen years. The abolition of the average systematiek alone costs the group of 45 to 55 year olds according to the CPB 55 billion. So Rutte failed to provide the social partners with sufficient security. This cabinet does not appear to be prepared to pursue real social policy. That is why I have some final questions for the Prime Minister. How does he look back on his role in the negotiations with all those involved in the pension agreement? What is the plan and the lead time of this cabinet right now to follow up on the elements that have not been agreed upon?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u54	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u55	Mr President, I would like to ask two more questions. What is the Prime Minister going to do to restore confidence and is he capable of doing so at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u56	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u57	Mr. Chairman. The pension agreement failed. Prime Minister Rutte was optimistic last week. Is his gaze starting to lose focus? Blaming each other has started again, but that doesn't help anyone, not the working generation and certainly not the elderly. Still no indexing. The threat of discounts remains above the market. That makes people in the gallery insecure, too. Who can they contact? Not with the government parties, as it turns out. They don't have a convincing alternative. The level of pension is important for the elderly and, of course, for young people. The economy is growing, wages are rising again, albeit moderately. The bonuses are rising faster, but pensions? Zero cents. Explain that to the elderly. At least as important is the certainty: knowing what you're up to. Older people can't adjust. If the Prime Minister is wondering why there is so little support for his coalition, then I say: because the coalition mainly offers people uncertainty. There is no certainty about pensions, but there are rising costs for the climate, ending in huge bills for each household. The low VAT goes up. Is there a problem? Then Mark Rutte's society doesn't get the solution but always gets the bill. That makes millions of people nervous, and that should give us all thinking in The Hague. Our system is still the best in the world. The combination pension and AOW is great. Let us now assume our strength instead of increasing every possible problem. Our pension system could grow in a climate of social and political stability. That atmosphere, that climate, we need to find again. What are for us figures and tables is getting peace of mind in society. We need to realize that better. 50PLUS calls on all parties to consult constructively, aiming at a sensible solution that gives confidence not only to the figures but above all to society. Question to the Prime Minister: Didn't the negotiators load the board too much, so that there always had to be some AOW age and the position of zzp'ers to break? The interest rate remains a stone of offense. It is not the actual yield that counts, but an accounting rule that causes a lot of misery for a long time. We have tabled an own-initiative proposal on the calculation rate. I assume the Prime Minister knows the contents. Are you prepared to take a serious look at this now? What are the key factors in the government's calculation rate? How do you weigh it? 50PLUS is launching a second initiative to extend the five-year period, as announced several times before. In these ways, reductions in pensions can be avoided. 50PLUS has the draft law ready for this. Does the government intend to respond constructively to this? In order to break the current deadlock, 50PLUS proposes to introduce the same valuation measure for pension contributions and pension liabilities. That means the end of a lot of misery. It is consistent, in contrast to the current rules, which state that the calculation rate for the return on premiums is 3% and for pension liabilities a low 1%. Is the government prepared to accept this proposal? Finally, we propose that the European Ultimate Forward Rate should apply to pension funds. Is the government now prepared to accept this widely supported proposal? For some reason, the figures of the government attach enormous importance to that 1% interest rate. The leaked net non-pension agreement refers to 'a soft pension', i.e. a pension that breathes more directly with the state of the economy, for the better and for the worse. By definition, the fund would be less at risk for its coverage and would be able to raise the interest rate, even if Knot and the Minister did not think so. I will come back to that in detail tomorrow. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS wants a good pension for everyone, including our children and grandchildren. We want to see bridges in the polder, not deep gorges. The Netherlands has a tradition of sensible consultation. That didn't make us all any worse. We would like to join those bridges and walk over them together with as many others as possible. Our hand is out, Prime Minister, grab him! I have here a broad-based generational agreement of 2013 from young and old, from employers and trade unions, from the Pension Federation and the Foundation of Labour. A colleague of mine remembers this, I see in the Chamber; very well. I'd like to remind you of that. Finally, Mr President. We are organising a round table in January to discuss the calculation rate in relation to the softer claims.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u58	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haersma Buma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u59	Madam President. It is particularly disappointing that, after seven years of negotiations, no pension agreement has been reached, while the current system is a system with major problems. Our pension system is a savings fund of EUR 1,400 billion, and it belongs to employers and employees, which the government can't afford. That places a great responsibility on the administrators, on the polder. As we all age and the nature of the employment contracts changes, the current system will no longer be sustainable in the future. Young people pay relatively high contributions and for many older people the security of a fixed pension is only available on paper. That is why it was right for unions and employers to initiate discussions on a new system. During the coalition negotiations in 2017, employers and employees were already very far away. They were also at the negotiating table at the time and the differences seemed to be bridgeable. It was only a matter of time. Everyone then realized that it would never happen in a way that would satisfy all wishes for everyone 100%. An agreement in the polder is always a difficult compromise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u60	I found the beginning of Mr Buma's speech remarkable. He said: it belongs to the employers and the workers and we should not get it. Can he explain why the calculation rate is determined by politics, and only by politics, through the Pension Act, the FTK, whereby De Nederlandsche Bank is only advisory? Can he tell us why we do so here and why we couldn't change that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u61	There's something double in your question. It is precisely my contention that this rate of calculation should not be political. You want to get that calculus rate. As far as I am concerned, the rate of calculation is not a political toy, but is determined externally. In the end, I think that is the most important thing for both of us and for the elderly: that we are not going to play politics with something that is literally a calculus rate. Actually, I agree with you and disagree. It is laid down in a law, but not by us as politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u62	Let me ask you more clearly. You say that the pot, the pension fund, belongs to the employers and the employees. That pot needs to be distributed. But then it is weird that politics is going to say: we are going to determine it in such a way that the pension funds do not pay out what they are made of, namely good pensions. We are blocking the payment of pensions. So you just acknowledge that the employers and the employees aren't about it, because we're doing it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u63	I think you are asking a question that you know the answer to with your long experience, because the frameworks are, of course, in a law, fortunately. But that law is there to protect pensions and not to play with something like an interest rate at a time when our politics are better off. If you ask me, I would also love it if we could raise the rate of calculation, because then we can make more payments. But we know one thing. The reality is no different and the big risks that in the longer term the higher interest rates will not come out are on our plate. So my advice to you is to do as you say. Arithmetic interest isn't political. Accountant interest must be determined externally. I would very much like us to do the framework of our discussions in such a way that we do not turn something like an arithmetic rate into a political playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u64	Then let me ask the question again. This rate of calculation means that pensions are not increased or even reduced. Do you think we have the right measure? Do you think it is logical, and can you explain this, that pensions will be cut if nothing changes with the rules now, including for the calculation rate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u65	Now you are doing the same thing again, which is to give a political judgment on the rate of calculation: it is too low and therefore cannot be paid. But the interest rate is a result of very low interest rates. Don't forget one thing. When that interest rate fell so low a few years ago, we all never thought it would stay so low for so long. Probably we would have taken too high an interest rate for a long time. I really think it is playing with the pensions of the future to change calculation rates politically in order to increase pensions in the short term. I'd love to, but I'm also here to do something responsible with the pension. I just don't think that's justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u66	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u67	You're playing with today's pensions. The yields are 5% to 7%, for 30 years and also for the last 10 years. You cannot explain that if the returns on the large funds are 7%, for 10 years, for 30 years, we are now working with an interest rate of 1% for the next 60 years. You can't explain that. That's what you're doing. It's torpedoing confidence in the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u68	I'm going to answer you, but let me go back. The pension agreement was far beyond the calculation rate. That came later. The core is still the pension contract we're talking about. But I'm gonna say it again. You say now: these pension funds have very large returns; they can pay out. But you also know that De Nederlandsche Bank, the external non-political auditor, fortunately, says that the pension coverage rate is too low to pay out. What do you need this pension coverage for? To ensure that pensions are sustainable in the longer term. I really think that you and I... Even if you say you stand up for the elderly, you also say you stand up for the young. I want to stand up for these young people, because there is no longer any pension to be given in the future. There will be many more elderly people, we will all be much older, and there will be fewer young people to work. None of them are gonna do that pension bonus story anymore. They're gonna do something themselves. That pension system is going to fail in the long term, I dare say it even harder. That's why it's so bad what happened and that's why I find it so risky to say: well, the interest rate. Really, it sounds nice, but it's totally wrong in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u69	Then Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u70	You know what's wrong? That is that the CDA simply ignores the possibility of preventing discounts for millions of Dutch people. What is also wrong is that the CDA stops it from doing something after ten years of barely indexing for all those people who worked hard for a decent pension. And why? That is because Mr Buma says: you know, we can actually change it because it is in a law. You can change everything you want as a politician. If today's decision is taken...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u71	And the question is, Mr. De Jong?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u72	... in politics to adjust that interest rate by half a percent, there are certainly no more discounts needed. So my question is whether Mr Buma will stop putting forward his doomsday scenarios and finally see the light of day to ensure that all these discounts are avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u73	The future of our pensions is not certain. Of course it's nicer to talk about today, and today it's higher. But the new pension system, which is not coming now, had the chance that the coverage rate could be lower. This offers more opportunities for benefits that will rise with inflation in the future. If we do not, of course, we will have a quick story, as you are doing now, but we do not have any solutions. Eventually everyone says "we have to come out together" and then stand there and torch off everything that happens in retirement country. One of the things that has to happen is a new contract. If you're gonna play with the calculus rate, you're gonna play with the pensions of the future. So I don't do that, and you can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u74	That's bullshit. It is the CDA's input that pose a risk to the pension system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u75	Just a moment, Mr. De Jong. I know that there are a lot of people in the public gallery who are of course very involved in this debate, but you really are not supposed to comment from the public gallery or express your emotions in all kinds of ways. You can't say anything back. Then Mr. De Jong again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u76	The situation is as follows: We have a pension fund of 1,400 billion euros. There's a threat of discounts right now. Those discounts can be avoided if the CDA, which is in the cabinet, says: we are not going to do that, because we are going to temporarily increase the calculation rate by half a percent. Then those discounts are just gone today. That's one. Two. Indexing has not been taking place for ten years and that is completely inexplicable with such a huge pension fund. And is Mr Buma going to tell us here: you know, it is not the responsibility of politics to stand for those pensions. That is what Mr Buma is literally saying here. Isn't that a blow to the face of all those people who built up pensions? But it is also a blow to the face of all these young people, because they see that parties like the CDA do not index and unnecessary discounts take place, and that precisely affects the confidence in the pension system. Answer that, Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u77	I think that Mr De Jong, when it comes to something as big as pensions, should at least try to properly reflect what other parties say. I think that is necessary, because otherwise we do not have a good debate. That's one. Two, if we go you-baking... I'm gonna do it anyway, I'm gonna be honest with you. The PVV said "never raise the AOW age." And what was the first thing Mr Wilders did when he went to rule? Raise the AOW age. So you can say here 'we do it all better', but I know what your promises to the elderly in the Netherlands are worth: nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u78	Mr Buma comes with something from eight years ago. And if only it were 66 years old... Through the CDA it rises to 67 and beyond. But other than that: we have made proposals to bring that AOW age back to 65 and to at least freeze, but the CDA does not give home. But what this debate is about today is preventing discounts for millions of people on their pensions. The CDA has some nice talk about this that it is supposedly good for the pension, but in the meantime it doesn't have to be reduced. Then he says, you know, politics isn't about it. You are in politics, here in plenary, not to say a little bit that you are not all about it. We have the opportunity. This Prime Minister and this Minister have the opportunity to adjust the interest rate and to avoid discounts. Why don't you just leave that chance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u79	With the new system, which is therefore aimed at the future, these discounts can be avoided and will be avoided in many cases. At the last minute, the cabinet said that I too read this; it is believed that everything is being coordinated, but it has only been at the last minute that, in the run-up to that new system which thus makes reductions less necessary, in the last two years, in that context, it is possible to ensure that there is no reduction, because we know that the system is being renewed. It was solved, under the new system. It can't be that you're just talking about this year. The PVV, together with all of us, also has a great responsibility to ensure that pensions are still available in ten, twenty, thirty years' time. We may be out of the Chamber a long time ago, but then there are young people who have to pay contributions for their pensions. And I do stand for people who may not yet see their own interest at the moment. I think it's my job to point them out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u80	This cabinet has used the prevention of discounts as bargaining material. It has said: if you agree, dear unions, then there is no need to cut down. But you're just gonna take care of that, right? You don't need a pension agreement for that, do you? You're just saying as Prime Minister or Minister of Social Affairs, as a cabinet, "we're gonna avoid discounts anyway, and we're gonna do everything we can to make indexing possible again"? It is precisely this kind of political game that says that you want to avoid discounts, but if everything does not happen as you want it to, it does not do so that is to play with the interests of pensions. That's playing with all those people who've built up retirement. That is a loss of confidence, and that is far more dangerous than what should be needed to retire. You should protect it, but you're just affecting it more and more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u81	The words of Mr De Jong are great, but the solutions are small. I'm telling you the truth. It is not for nothing that unions and employers have been negotiating the future of our pension system for seven years. For you that is not necessary; no new system, play with the calculation rate. I tell you that in recent years interest rates have been much lower than we thought. If we had set that interest rate higher, we probably would have had a problem by now. And again, politics is about the longer term. I think that is essential. If we do not do that anymore, we should actually close the sitting, go straight to the voter and say: support our fine plans. But the best thing is to make plans and implement them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u82	I would like to know what Mr Buma thinks now. This arithmetic rate as part of the overall agreement, what should it look like to the idea of the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u83	I have tried to answer that as precisely as possible. The rate of calculation is not a political fiction. That is what we are making of it now, because, indeed, with higher interest rates, pension funds can spend more, because then we pretend that the interest rate is actually higher than it is. However, this calculation rate is determined on the basis of the expected longer-term developments. If we, the politicians, think that interest rates are going to rise, we're all gonna change that interest rate right now. But we don't know. And I prefer that experts, take De Nederlandsche Bank and others, do that for us. It is also re-established by them. They look independently to see if it's still true, because the question "does it still knock?" We have to say. But we politicians are not the ones who have to give the answer. The question will be put out again. That is what the cabinet does, and I think it is sensible, but the answer must be given by others.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u84	If I sum it up correctly, you say this: "As CDA, we do not yet have an opinion on this either. We have the current system, that framework. That works, and it is up to the Minister to come up with a proposal"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u85	No, the point is that the pension system no longer works at all, that we have post-stamping, and that we want to avoid this together. The only thing is that that cannot be done by cheating on interest rates that we simply have no influence on. It's about making the system robust. That's what we want to do. Those short pickings, quickly home from the calculus rate... I must say that I find it rather worrying how many spokesmen here think that the arithmetic rate is a political toy. It's not that. If that were the case, tomorrow we'd put that interest rate together at 10. But then the years after that, we have a huge problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u86	Now Mr Buma is doing the trick again, which is putting away the interest rate as a toy of a number of spokesmen. But we are seriously concerned because we see that this pot of money has increased from EUR 700 billion to EUR 1,400 billion over the last eight years, even in the crisis period. But in those seven, eight years old people haven't received a penny and their disposable income has fallen. You say that politics does not contribute to this, but we have agreed, in a European context, that we have a buy-back programme. That'll keep that interest low. In practice, the yields over 30 years are 5% to 7%. Now we swim like a Dagobert Duck in that warehouse with 14 billion and say "what are we poor towards the future" because we assume that interest rates are too low. That's true. It doesn't have to be 5% or 7% of me, but it's at least on the low end. Older people have to deal with this now, so not only if the cabinet finally has an agreement, but older people today!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u87	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u88	The question is, doesn't Mr. Buma see this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u89	If I have to choose who is expert in the development of interest rates, the group chairman of DENK or the President of De Nederlandsche Bank, then I have no doubt. That's actually the answer. We are politicians who stand up for good pensions. You do and I do. We all do, but my point is: if we do that honestly, then we do it in a way that ensures that pensions are good in the future. And now you say in between: these funds have gone from 700 to 1,400 billion; that can be paid out. Don't worry, it'll be paid. But the number of people who claim is also increasing enormously. The number of people who invest is decreasing. That is a huge problem. The number of people who don't want to participate is growing. That's what the pension agreement was about. Why is it so hard? Because there are also understandable wishes around the AOW and around the RVU scheme. I understand that, but I am so sorry that the discussion has been more and more about it, while we still have a pension contract that is not sustainable. Your answer is the calculation rate. I find that irresponsible. I'm not gonna do it either. The other option is to participate in the pension contract, in which employers and employees were actually very far in, and encourage them to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u90	I note that Mr Buma leaves people in the cold every day. I am not in favour of spending all that money at all or of dealing with it in an irresponsible way, but I also think it is unfair that something should be done about this, too, because older people with a pension have not been indexed for seven or eight years now, while, under your responsibility too, we are spending money on reducing corporation tax for companies and multinationals, who simply do not need it. I think that's crooked. I find that unfair. I want to do something about that. You say, "I'm just not doing anything for that; I'm leaving people out in the cold."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u91	I share the concern about not indexing pensions. That affects all the elderly in the short term. The way to change that is, I say it again before picking up in the pension contract. This makes it possible for pension funds to hold lower buffers and yet index them. That's two years from now. In the meantime, the Cabinet is prepared to ensure that it is not necessary to stamp. Why it is so difficult, I see, but I really regret it because there are also great questions about the sustainability of the AOW age, the one-to-one link and so on. I will come to that later in my speech, because I have only spoken three sentences. All these questions are very real. They're just so big that you can't put them in the pension contract right now. That's why it went wrong. I think that is very serious, because there is simply no sustainable pension system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u92	Mr Buma just said something very interesting. He said that the system is being eroded because fewer and fewer people are participating. What does Mr Buma intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u93	Well, create a new system that increases the possibility of personal building and makes it much more attractive to participate. As far as I'm concerned,zzp'ers should be allowed to participate. The problem, of course, lies in the obligation to do so, and I hope you will also see that there is no such thing, because a lot of people, young people, do not want to do it, but there was a pension agreement that was very close to a system that is sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u94	The problem is not that people do not want to build a pension, but that it makes them almost impossible. Just giving you the chance to build up a pension? The strength of the Dutch pension system is compulsory. If you say that this does not apply to a part of the Dutch population, you undermine the strength of the Dutch pension system. In the end, we all know how hard it is when it comes tozzp'ers. We also want the real entrepreneurs to be entrepreneurs. What do we say to all the mail delivery guys, who are actually just in the service, but who have to operate as a zzp'er and not build a pension? I believe that these employers should indeed pay pension contributions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u95	And the question to Mr Buma?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u96	That responsibility lies with politics. Will Mr. Buma pick up that glove with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u97	In the end, I am very close to what Mr Klaver wants. I also believe that as manyzzp'ers as possible should at least have the possibility. There's an obligation to talk. This should be possible within the pension system. There is only one problem: you have to do this with different parties: employers, employees and the whole political spectrum. I know, and I hope there isn't the difference between that and that you can never bring everything in, that you have to accept that a deal has pluses and minuses. It's like you just want pluses, starting with more certainty forzzp'ers. By the way, this is about more subjects. Because you mention the distressing situation at the post office, but don't forget that PostNL is hiring the people, so it is possible. There are a lot of roads. The path you are looking for is a dead end in negotiations with employers and employees. Unless we're gonna have to pay as a government, but we already have a big bill. That's what I'm saying at some point: too bad, but it's not gonna be him. Do I have to say for that reason that nobody in the Netherlands is entitled to this new system? That's what you say, but I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u98	Employers do not like the fact that they will have to pay premiums for people for whom they do not now. Of course, they don't agree with this. That is exactly why the government has to intervene, why the government has to say: wait a minute, for thesezzp'ers, who are actually simply employed, for example with a mailman or in construction, pension contributions must be paid. In the same way as we can make it compulsory for employees in the Netherlands to pay their pension contributions, we must also arrange for all those who are supposedly self-employed but not at all. That is not something that lies with the social partners, that is our responsibility. Mr Buma says that we must accept what is possible and what is not possible, but if he agrees with me on this point, we must work together on this so that the social partners have something to work with. Then we make sure that people who arezzp'er or have a payroll construction start to build up their pension and get a new pension contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u99	Yes, Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u100	I would suggest that employers are sometimes very small SMEs that are already difficult to cope with. You call big companies, but they don't. If that's what you want, there won't be a match to the polder that's about the 1,400 billion. You can say that we are going to do everything national as politics, but that is not the case. Of course, if you had reached a deal, that deal would have been different. As a politician, I would have said: very glad that the polder is out. But the polder didn't come out. All you do is make it even harder to get a new system. Because everything you say ultimately means that young people pay more contributions, that we are going to stamp earlier and that the pension is not sustainable. That is the consequence of not being granted your wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u101	Finally, this is very interesting what Mr Buma says. It gives a glimpse of how he looks at that polder and who eventually gets what he wants. Mr Buma says that employers do not agree with this, when it comes to making pensions compulsory for people with disabilities, so that they have to pay contributions. You won't get an agreement on that either, nor on that contract. Apparently it is considered totally acceptable that employers do not want that, but it is very strange that unions say at some point: wait a minute, we do not get what we want, then we do not agree. It shows how the focus is on employers. I am not here to debate for the big employers, I am here to debate for all those people in the Netherlands who are building up pensions or who are not now doing so and should actually do so, and for pensioners. This means, in this case, that the cabinet and coalition parties should perhaps have taken a little more side with the trade unions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u102	If we really can only do it with big words, we will not make any progress. In the new deal there is the possibility to participate, even if you are a vzzp'er. But a lot ofzzp'ers don't want it either. I think that a lot of young people who vote for GroenLinks do not know that their leader wants to have them in a pension fund, because a lot of people want to volunteer. So I'm okay with that, too. I think that's possible, too. That is why your answer is not the answer at all. The only thing Jesse Klaver knows as a solution is his solution. If everyone does it, it's okay. That's another retirement deal. This pension deal has been negotiated for seven years. The unions had long agreed that it was not mandatory. This part has not been at all the section which has been contested by the unions. Mr Klaver may make a point of it, but then he himself does not have his contacts in order. Of course, the unions want more, but this wasn't the breaking point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u103	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u104	Yeah? Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u105	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u106	I always find it so interesting: Mr Buma always talks about...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u107	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Not every time on the form, but on the content. The content is: the unions were agreed eventually difficult but this point was not a breaking point. I can't make it any prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u108	What I find so interesting about Mr Buma is the following. He talks about the language here all the time and how we should treat each other politely. But what a tirade comes out of this. I have always talked about how we should work together as politicians here. It may not have been a breaking point for the unions... You can say "this is Jesse Klaver's point of view, and if that is your point of view, then nothing will ever come of it," but this is not Jesse Klaver's point of view. This is the position of GroenLinks. If I am well informed, it is also the position of the Labour Party, of the Socialist Party and of the trade unions. Not only is that the position of these parties or unions, but that is it of a lot of people in the Netherlands! That's what it's about. It's not about you, Mr. Buma, it's not about me, it's not even about employers or unions, it's about people in the Netherlands who want to build up their pension. My story to young people is: of that group of 800,000 people, of workers who are now not building a pension, half are younger. We're abandoning them now. They'd love to build up a pension. That's my story to all those kids. We want to ensure that they are given the chance that this can be done, that they have the same rights as the generations before them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u109	This is still a difficult debate. This is why the pension system is being reformed. This reform of the pension system therefore offers more opportunities for young people. That's the point. You just said that we need to be indexed over the next few years. But that's just at the expense of later years. So don't say "I'm for the young," because that doesn't make any sense. Second point. Again, you said just now about the obligation of a pension forzzp'ers: that is a reason not to do that agreement, because the unions do not want it. That's right, but in the chord the way it was on paper, it was a long time ago. So it only makes it harder if politics gets out of there again. This was not a question to Mr Klaver. I'll let him interrupt a hundred times, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u110	Well, it's not mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u111	...I am going to say the same thing a hundred times, as I am used to doing in other debates if the question is the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u112	Finally. I'm not talking aboutzzp'ers who are gonna have to pay pension contributions. I am talking about employers who are going to be obliged to pay contributions for people they actually employ. Then you can say "yes, yes," but that is a crucial difference. In the whole debate onzzp'ers, it seems that we want to oblige entrepreneurs to build up pensions, but that is not what this debate is about at all. This is about all those people who are actually working for an employer at the moment, such as those postal messengers, but for whom employers do not pay a premium. That's a situation we need to change. I believe that we should oblige employers to pay pension contributions for all their employees. That's the difference, Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u113	This debate was about "so you yourself began not to make a deal." You accused the cabinet of playing a major role in that. Then you say here: one of the requirements that must be done is compulsory participation ofzzp'ers in the pension. Of that, I say that this was just not what was involved in the pension agreement. That's one. Two. A lot ofzzp'ers will not want that at all, because they prefer their own arrangement. That's my point. Anything about the shape Mr Klaver throws through, I leave it to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u114	I thought Mr. Buma was gonna tell us how he's gonna fix it. It's his cabinet coming here now...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u115	He's just getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u116	...with no social agreement. It is his cabinet that says here: it is politically impossible to include more self-employed people in the system. So politically unfeasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u117	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u118	Yeah, it's in the cabinet letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u119	Yeah, it's mandatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u120	And it is his cabinet that says: yes, you may be right about that AOW age, but that is something for another cabinet. My question to Mr Buma is whether he is prepared, precisely in the context of resolution, to give the cabinet a broader mandate than he has apparently done so far, so that it can reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u121	A not insignificant part of my contribution would be about that AOW age, because that is a very serious point. That's what I just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u122	Let me take a look at Mr Asscher. Do you mind if this point...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u123	I would also like to save Mr Buma a little time. My question was whether, on the road to solutions, he was prepared to give the cabinet a broader mandate on those two points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u124	Then I would like to give Mr Asscher an answer, namely that I would like to make my contribution to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u125	Then you will have the opportunity to do so. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u126	Then Mr Asscher can also ask the questions he wants to ask. I have to tell you that I really need to look again where I was once again in my input. I'd almost start over again because I'm out again. I think I said the last sentence: everyone realized during the coalition negotiations in 2017 that there would never be a deal that would meet 100% of the wishes. The fact that Minister Koolmees has now sent to the Chamber shows that, after last summer, the week of 13 August was called'related matters', as he calls it, on the table. That's how I read it. There was a negotiation about a pension agreement and related matters came on the table. Now I come to Mr Asscher's question. In any case, I know that the cabinet ultimately had a sum of EUR 7 billion at its disposal for adjacent issues. That's more than just being discussed in the coalition. So that's a big deal. But the strange thing is that it seems as if with the willingness to look wider the demands were getting louder and bigger. Can the Minister indicate what new demands from trade unions or employers were added during that period? It was about the pension deal and the demands for the AOW, and the latter grew. Because topics such as the height of the AOW age, the one-to-one combination with the increase in life expectancy and the handling of heavy-duty occupations require great and profound societal choices. You can't make it now in the context of a pension agreement. That's what you need to look at in the longer term. The CDA therefore also feels the task of engaging in this discussion, including with social partners, and also of what it means for other expenditures. Think about the care. Think of our education. Think of our safety. Those are far greater choices than can only be made in here. The CDA would like to enter into the conversations, but it is not possible to conclude a pension agreement now if all these issues need to be resolved. Then we all have to choose not to make a pension deal. And you understand that I find that totally irresponsible. I have the impression that Mr Asscher is still ready to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u127	I have that impression, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u128	Does Mr Buma agree with me that the cabinet has available 200 million a year for the period after 2024?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u129	That's for the cabinet to say. I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u130	We got a letter that says so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u131	Yeah, but as far as...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u132	Maybe we can just assume that that information is correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u133	Well, "available"... I have to tell you that, in my view, these measures are not in line with the agreement that would now be reached on pensions. That amounts to 7 billion towards 2024, because the acceleration you introduced in the increase in the AOW age will be reversed by this cabinet. I'll just say it, because that's the situation. EUR 7 billion is available for this. I say quite honestly that is actually a much larger amount than it seemed necessary when the social partners almost concluded an agreement in 2017. In 2017 it seemed as if it would take a few more weeks. A year later, the bill got much higher. Once again, the consequence is that the new system will not be introduced. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u134	It is not true what Mr Buma is saying here. There's over $4 billion available to get that gear out. I think that's wise, too. Next, 200 million per year is available for the period thereafter. The cabinet then says: if you do that time 15, in fifteen years, it's a larger amount; if you do it times 100, in 100 years, it's also a larger amount. Why am I making this point? Because I think it's a little easy to say that you'll never agree on all those important issues, which the CDA also says are important if you don't give so much money. We live in a time when there's money. So this is the time to settle it, not next cabinet. You first negotiated the cabinet for a year and then a year in the cabinet, but you do not give the minister and the cabinet a mandate to do it. I totally agree with you that you never get your way in everything, but this is the other extreme. Hence my question: are you prepared to give this cabinet a broader mandate than the 200 million it apparently had so far? Because we need to solve this; I think we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u135	I must honestly say that I think this is typically a question that does not help to solve the problem we have, because the agreement has not been concluded. "Bigger money"; when I hear what the wishes are... I must say that they are also justified, because that one-on-one is a very big problem that we carry with us. But if it is now said "Buma, do more than 200 million," then I need to know what taxes we're going to raise. So it doesn't matter, because then the workers simply pay more until they retire, in one case contributions and in the other case taxes. So that doesn't solve anything. Or we're going to cut back on other areas; then we can cut back on care, education or other things. Or we could say, "Well, the debt could be a little bigger." I know the PvdA always thinks it's easier, but when we talk about the future and our pensions, the debt we all have must also be contained. That's not what I'm saying. It's not what I'm saying. However, I say that the problem is so big, so many billions large, that you cannot link it to a pension system that is simply no longer sustainable, apart from the problems that exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u136	Mr Buma is really stuck in old statues and then it is not going to work at all. It was the Labour Party that put the finances in order with others in crisis time. Now the CDA is in power in a time of prosperity and you don't have the money to settle this. You don't give the money to make people stop before they do. You prefer to reduce the burden on large businesses. You're a right-wing party. That is your right; I am not going to blame you, but I find it very strange that you cry crocodile tears because you did not succeed. That is not a matter for employees, and it is not a matter of wanting to get out. That depends on the mandate, which is too small. Then you can wait until St. Juttemis and then it's your fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u137	These comments, too, I think... Politics can do it all, but this is not helping at all with the common problem we have. You are not talking about it, but I keep saying it: if we keep the pension system that way, that means that we continue to stamp off and that young people are going to pay more and more contributions and get out of the system, so that it is unsustainable. There is. What I see is that in recent months and certainly since 2017, more and more wishes have been put aside, especially by trade unions but perhaps also by employers. Those wishes made it more difficult to reach a solution. I'm really sorry about that. If we're gonna say we're gonna add money... Sure, you can. How much money does it take? You want a certain amount. If it has to be said so: left has... I don't have to use that word at all. A number of opposition parties have totally different views on what needs to be done. You yourself, the PvdA, want A, Mrs Marijnissen wants B, Mr Klaver wants C. That doesn't bring any agreement either. Now there was almost an agreement. I can only say that more demands have been made in my image in recent months; that is also in the facts. I find that deeply sad, because today's young people are going to have a worse pension, and that is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u138	I haven't gotten into the situation yet to tell you what I want. I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u139	You've let the media know that, and you're welcome to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u140	Mr Buma's coalition is standing here empty-handed, with all those stories about how bad it all is. That's your responsibility, Mr. Buma. My question was: are you prepared to give a wider mandate to the cabinet to get out? I haven't talked about what we really want. Why couldn't that be much closer to each other than you're pretending to be? And yes, that costs money. If you want to make new agreements for those 1,400 billion, if you want to make new agreements for those generations of the future, and if you say you have 200 million left to cut them out of your own Social Affairs budget, you are an employer's cabinet. Then you're not prepared to look the other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u141	I'm still coming back to the same point. That remains the separate thing from all your interruptions: they are not about the pension agreement itself. I didn't hear about that. This is all about big questions that exist and that also have the CDA, but which cannot be solved today or tomorrow. When it comes to 'back to 66', what the unions are saying now, it is not a cost of 200 million but more than 10 billion in structural terms, EUR 10 billion. That's what we have to do together. For that we will have to make the choices together. Those choices are tough. If we do that, a retirement age of 66, and if we are willing to spend more than 10 billion for that, I think it may be very difficult politically to get out of it; that might be possible. That means we're stuck with an untenable contract until the end of the day. I only regret that. That was my comment when I was talking about the CDA and the social agreement you concluded. You can always say: more needs to be added and more needs to be added. That's what we thought at the time. We did not agree with all of that either, but we simply said: if this is about where social partners and employers are going to countries, that was also where they were going to countries before there were any additional wishes. Then I'll take a step back. That's what we did at the time. My advice is that it is not happening, but I could imagine that we, as politicians, are doing so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u142	Mr Buma blames me for not talking to him about the pension agreement. Newsflash: There is no pension agreement. That's the big difference. You're standing here empty-handed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u143	But so do you. We don't have a pension agreement together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u144	And why is that? Because you didn't get out with employees and employers. You can't blame me for that, can you? I didn't sit there at the table. In times of prosperity, you sent a cabinet there without money. Now you're disappointed and angry, and you're gonna get mad at the opposition. It is your cabinet that stands here empty-handed. That is a huge difference from the social agreement of 2013.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u145	One of the important things is, for example, a regulation for the heavy-duty professions. I ask you to reflect on that. You had the opportunity to arrange it between 2012 and 2017. We were ready to support it, but it didn't come. In short, all your accusations are now hollow because they do not address the problem we have: a system that was not good then either, a system that was already being questioned at the time. Then you just wanted to make a deal. Now you are on the sidelines and I am on the sidelines, because we are all on the sidelines with a cabinet, employers and employees negotiating. What's happening is dramatic. I think we should work together to ensure that the pension agreement can be reached. It does not help at all to add a lot of money for other things that do not concern the pension agreement and then leave the generations behind us with bad pensions. For now, your story sounds great for all the parties who say things here about the arithmetic rate and the like. For now, it sounds nice. I think a lot of people really do. But we all know together that we'll have a big problem in 10, 20 years, right? Even if you say 'just solve it with EUR 10 billion', we will have to answer that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u146	Your last question, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u147	Mr Buma takes everyone here to measure, is angry at everything and everyone, brings in the past and says: I am standing here to solve it together. That's totally ridiculous. Your cabinet is here empty-handed. That is because they have not been able to reach an agreement; we must agree on that. My question was: are you prepared to give this cabinet a broader mandate together with the rest of the House of Representatives? Then you say: that costs 10 billion. Bullshit! That's just bullshit. You're on your way with $200 million and now you're crying crocodile tears. And then again you blame the Labour Party for not taking good care of the money. That's an old cliché story. It is a matter of far too much importance. I find it incredibly unfortunate that the CDA is now using the middle groups, who are the victims of this, so late and this moment and this stage to make politics about the backs of others. I sincerely asked you whether it is not time to give the cabinet a larger mandate. You still haven't answered it. You're in an old rigging and you're taking other people's measure. That's not "together." This has nothing to do with the future of the political centre. That has nothing to do with the polder and respect for it. This is incredibly cheap.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u148	The hard part for both of us is that we both didn't sit at the table at the retirement transfer. So exactly how that went, we can only ask. Then let's ask the cabinet together if the wishes we now have were on the table in August. Let us ask whether the wishes that eventually led to the break-up on the 20th were demands from employers or workers who were there a few months earlier. My analysis is that the demands have only been increased. In fact, the unions said the same thing. The unions have said that we want a number of left-wing parties to participate, and if they do not participate, we will, as it were, take over their demands. It's hard for me to say, but it's done. So don't come up with "the unions weren't out for a long time" and "more money" because in doing so, a little who fits the shoe attracts him: the wishes of a number of parties have been deposited with the unions. I regret that, because we still do not have that new system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u149	Mr Buma does not really answer Mr Asscher's question as to whether he is prepared to send the cabinet with a broader mandate. Let me try it differently and rephrase it. Mr. Buma used to be big. He says: it is totally irresponsible that it has not come to a pension agreement. Those are big words. Does Mr Buma think that the cabinet has put enough on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u150	For me otherwise I would never have said that it was right to ask the cabinet: can a deal be concluded with this? Yeah, this should do it. Then I say, "That's enough." Eventually, I keep saying that the demands have been increased, including after contact with your party, so I read in the media. You can laugh at that, but I read it in the media. Then it will be very difficult for me to negotiate, because the cabinet thinks it is negotiating with a union, but is negotiating with a political party on a detour. That means that you can talk about the unions, more money and so on. I find it very difficult and difficult to negotiate in the polder through two shadow parties, the SP and, for example, the CDA. That was gonna happen. In this context, I think it is pointless for a cabinet to put more money on the table, because the SP has already laid down the requirements, namely 'back to 65'. Or is there any way to talk about "back to 65"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u151	It is quite extraordinary what Mr Buma is doing here. It's true. Indeed, I was able to serve Minister Koolmees a cup of coffee once, because he came to ask me what our wishes were. Let me be honest with you. That's how it happened. It is therefore completely contrary to what Mr Buma says. He's not going to answer my question. My question was: do you think the cabinet has laid down enough? Because at the same time, Mr Buma, you say with the knowledge that there is no agreement and that that is totally irresponsible. Then you will agree to a totally irresponsible situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u152	The hard part about this is that you're really talking about a negotiation. The interesting question is whether the cabinet should have done more. The cabinet has already done more than we actually have. It's gone over that. But what turned out? Some of the negotiators didn't want to go anymore anyway, because the demands weren't just money-bridgeable. A one-to-one coupling, as it is called, had to be arranged. "Back to 66" had to be arranged. As I said to Mr Asscher, you can say in negotiations, of course, that more needs to be done. But this was such a visible, insoluble wish that there was no beginning. The cabinet naturally joined the coalition partners. That's the way it should be, because we've reached a coalition agreement. The cabinet had gone beyond the mandate. I was fine with it. If there had to be something else to make a deal with, you could have. The only thing was that the demands were so far away from what was promising and that they ran away so quickly. Even in retrospect, you knew it collapsed before we knew it. It just went wrong. It didn't make sense anymore. And more mandates and so on: yes, of course they should be there when needed. But it has to lead to something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u153	We've already invented the Internet. We could simply follow that the negotiations had collapsed. I certainly did not know that until Mr Buma, I suspect, but I do not have the information that Mr Buma had. My information was what I was able to hear from the media at that time, namely that it had not been possible to reach a pension agreement. I note today that Mr Buma is really crying crocodile tears here. Because he uses big words in his own story. He's talking about "totally irresponsible." Next, in this debate, he is only dealing with the issue of debt, namely to the trade unions. They have done it, because they always come up with new demands. And Mr Buma says: the cabinet exceeded all its mandate. I wonder what exactly was the cabinet's mandate, as far as you are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u154	The tricky thing about your way of interrupting is that you ask many questions. I'd like to answer the first one, but then the last one will come after me again. 'Cause it's a lot of questions. For me, it is still true that the last seven years have been about a new pension system that is sustainable for the future. I kind of blame the opposition for not seeing it that way. What has been said is that it is the trade unions in particular who have asked for this for their supporters, and that may be that the trade unions only want to agree if there are a number of additional measures. The point is that these measures are becoming more and more important, and that has indeed been spoken to you, because the unions said that they would not agree until the parties agree. And then there were demands that would never lead to an agreement. I would very much like to look with you and with all the parties at the great question of one-on-one. That's my problem, too. It's our common problem. But that was unsolvable in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u155	What exactly are those measures for Mr Buma? Is he talking, for example, about what they call the one-on-one coupling here, so we're going to work a year longer when we get a year older?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u156	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u157	So you don't think that's an important part. So you really still think we should just hold on to that, when in practice we just see that people who do heavy work just don't make it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u158	I think this is a...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u159	So that's what you think is an important measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u160	I think this is a preview of debates that we are going to get even more often in this way, namely that a subject that is perhaps much larger than this pension agreement is seen as the core of the pension agreement. But don't forget, and I'll put that down to you anyway. That one-on-one age-AOW hasn't been on the table at all, until a few months before the end. For years, two parties have been negotiating a new pension system where it was not a one-on-one relationship. And now you can say that it is scandalous that it is not taken away and that it is referred to as a sign, but it has not been mentioned by anyone. When we talked to the unions and employers about the pension agreement in 2017, we were talking about things in that pension system: one or two contracts, the accounting rate, the question is mandatory or not mandatory, but in the contract. Later on, all those things came along. That is why you can say that thanks to you these demands are so high that there is no such system now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u161	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u162	The real question for the CDA is: who is still willing to stick their necks out for joint agreements on the future of our pension system, because that is what it was all about. Who else stands in front of the polder? Seven years have been negotiated, and as it seems now, for nothing, because by now all the other measures have failed. All of the things that could have come, such as later entering the raised retirement age, which was in the package, are not coming now. At the time when a decision had to be taken, the fear of taking that step prevailed. In that light, I have another question for the Minister. How am I supposed to read his final sentence of the letter, in which he indicates that the negotiations have been shut down? Does he see room for a resumption? What is left is a sad balance, because retirement cessation is decline. No new system means no prospect of a good pension for the young generations of today, who may not even see it at the moment; great uncertainty for young and old. I sincerely hope that the negotiators in the polders realise that in their hands the responsibility for a sustainable pension system for future generations lies with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u163	Mr Buma asked the cabinet whether it still saw room for a follow-up. In this light, how does he view the Prime Minister's comments that he was sure that the FNV's supporters had signed? Do you think this will help?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u164	I don't know the FNV well enough to know that. You really need to ask the Prime Minister that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u165	Thank you. Your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u166	Yes, but Mr Buma is not answering the question. If I want to ask the Prime Minister, I will ask the Prime Minister immediately, but I ask Mr Buma what he thinks of that and whether he thinks that will help.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u167	My answer to that is that I cannot give that answer because I do not know the FNV enough to know how it weighs. I'd say the Prime Minister should answer that. I'm afraid to say it a little. I think a union that sees how important this is is is just gonna renegotiate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u168	Thank you. Mrs Marijnissen, you're up, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u169	Thank you, Mr President. The time when we were satisfied with trying to stop the deterioration in social security is behind us. It is time to fight fundamental progress. After years of crisis, things are now going very well, and everyone would notice that, this cabinet's promise was when it took office, but a lot of people still don't notice it. The care premiums are going up again, just like the energy bill and the rents. And for the time being, pensions have also been left behind, we know since last week. Even with the help of the Prime Minister, Minister Koolmees has not been able to reach a pension agreement. On Saturday we were able to read in the newspaper how easy it is for Mr Polman of Unilever to get something done with this Prime Minister, but when it comes to people's pensions, it seems to be a lot more difficult. Because what do people want? 70% of people say they don't want to work until 66. And what does this cabinet come up with? The cabinet allows the AOW age to go even further and prefers to move the really fundamental changes forward to the future. I also wonder who actually advised the cabinet during these negotiations on the pension agreement. Has the Prime Minister, for example, listened to Bettina van Steenis, a general practitioner from Enschede? She sent a letter to the newspaper calling the rise in retirement age "collective elderly abuse." Bettina sees people every day in her general practitioner practice who have done hard physical work their whole life. For these people it is not a question of not wanting anymore, but simply a question of not being able anymore. Does the Minister feel responsible for this? I also have a question for the Prime Minister. Did he call the street maker he spoke to in Venlo in 2009, during the election? He, the Prime Minister, had an advice for him, the street maker, there too: you just have to vote for me, because I'm gonna make sure that you can just retire with that heavy occupation at 65 years. That's what our Prime Minister said. Did he call that street maker, I'll ask him. 'Cause it's easy to talk from behind a desk. And it's easy to talk here from our benches in parliament. But what's it like for the people who build our houses? What's it like for the people who take care of our elders? What's it like for the people who guard our safety? At the moment it is: if you have enough money, then you can stop working sooner; but if you don't, then you are unlucky. It is not right that the AOW age should continue to increase and that workers with heavy occupations should continue to work until they fall. In fact, people who want to quit work earlier are punished with a heavy fine. One of my questions to this cabinet is: why does the cabinet not simply abolish this fine? Mr. Chairman. It is perfectly logical and reasonable that the trade unions did not agree to the lean and uncertain proposal. We don't want a little pluses and minuses for the short term. We want an honest pension for everyone. And that Prime Minister Rutte's political antenna is disturbing, we've seen it a few times. But also the negotiator Rutte seems to have lost it now. Maybe it's time for retirement!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u170	Mrs Marijnissen had a ready-made film on the social media within ten minutes after the chord was knocked out. How did she know the negotiations were gonna clap?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u171	I fear in the same way as you all here: I heard it on Twitter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u172	Do you really want to say that within ten minutes after that, you put together a ready-made video? Are you really saying that you didn't know anything and that from the moment of blows to the moment of publishing, so ten minutes, you put together a whole movie? Yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u173	There has been a long thought about this question, I see. But the answer isn't that complicated. What the cabinet came up with wasn't that much news. We may have seen that coming a little bit, so we were well prepared. As you know us as SP, we're on top of the news. That was why we could come up with a video soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u174	Your last question, Mr. Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u175	So you didn't know it was gonna clap?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u176	I knew it had collapsed the moment it came out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u177	That wasn't an answer. Did you know it was gonna clap?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u178	That was quite an answer. No, I didn't. I knew it the minute it came out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u179	Mr. Chairman. Interesting for the historiography. I'm curious if Mrs Marijnissen doesn't call the FNV as little as she does now. But that wasn't my question. The SP has a very clear position on pensions, another than that of my party. 65, the rate of calculation... Now I have a question. It's very much about working together today. The cabinet has made proposals that contain some substantial concessions to my election programme, but that is necessary if you want to get out. Can Mrs Marijnissen call me three concessions that the SP is willing to make to get out together?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u180	I believe that we are always prepared to talk about this, but you also know that it is not wise for me to give it to you tonight in this debate, without knowing what is going on. I don't think my party would take that away from me. I don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u181	I wish I knew. I don't know at all, because the practice is that the SP always says, as Louis Asscher said about the SP when he was a minister himself: my way or I'm out. My question to the SP is then: mention one point on which you are prepared to move. 'Cause I'm telling you honestly, I've never seen the SP thing before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u182	I believe that Mr Van Weyenberg is trying to imitate a political trick that is not entirely working out the way he means it. I'd very much like to talk to you about it. In fact, your minister came by to take stock of this, and I poured him a cup of coffee. Do you think he'd do that if there wasn't talk to us? Do you think your minister is making a totally wrong political assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u183	Your last question, Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u184	It's always a trick to say it's a game. I asked one very simple question. Are you prepared to make concessions to your program? Think of that 65, the RVU, and maybe not raising the accounting rate. Are you willing to do that? I'd find that valuable, because then we can work together. But I'm telling you honestly, I haven't seen much of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u185	For the third time, Mr Van Weyenberg, we are always prepared to cooperate. I think you know us the same way. The Minister has come to us to take stock of what is necessary for this. But unfortunately there is a bitter pill to swallow for the people sitting in the public gallery, for the people at home and for those who hope that their pension will finally be indexed. It's thanks to your cabinet that the retirement negotiations have failed. I can't hear you about that! You can ask me about movies or concessions. I think it is all fine, but I think tonight's debate is about the fact that the cabinet-blocked pension agreement still means that there is no just pension for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u186	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I hear a few people slaps in the public gallery. It's really the last time I'm gonna warn you. You must not express your feelings in any way in this debate, however annoying it may be. Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There was a great opportunity, after seven years of talking, to finally have a breakthrough in the area of pension systems. You almost forgot, but that's what it was all about: better integration of our supplementary pension system with pension funds into today's labour market, so that when you become self-employed at 40, you don't lose a whole bunch of your pension building, so that the perspective of indexation increases and that we restore support for the system and people get more customization and more personal pension. Mr. Chairman. That didn't work. My group is extremely disappointed about this. As far as I am concerned, the cabinet has done its utmost. Firstly, the pension contract that was agreed and submitted in the government agreement was based on what the social partners wanted in the Economic and Social Council at the time. When that turned out not to work according to themselves, the cabinet was willing to think about other pension contracts, which were also further away from the government agreement and in which there was even a negative buffer. Even when the newspaper said that VNO and FNV had made some sort of secret arrangement in a side letter to deceive the minister, the ESC and the crown members, the cabinet remained in conversation. I think that's wise. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, despite that offer, it didn't work. This is bad news for young people, bad news for workers and bad news for pensioners. The new pension system would have meant a step forward for all of them. That system, I think, was in everyone's best interest. Nevertheless, I understood that the trade union movement in particular also wanted to make agreements on the AOW. This is not about the pension system, but it is important. There too you saw a lot of concessions that are far from my party's election programme, but it was not enough. As far as I am concerned, what was at the end of the day was indeed interrelated, not only with coalition programmes but also with those of at least two opposition parties. The programme of the SP looked very different; that is what I said earlier. I'm sorry about that, but I respect that, of course. Mr. Chairman. On one question, I would like to continue, namely how far the pension contract was going. The Prime Minister's moved in. I read that this was because it went into the final phase. However, in some reports, I read, the worlds still seem to be incredibly apart. I would like to know more about that. The specific question of one-to-one coupling is justified. That is, by the way, a link which I do not think was included in any electoral programme. Yeah, some parties wanted to keep 65 65, but all the parties that wanted to link it to life expectancy had made the link that one year longer life also means you get AOW one year later. Isn't the cabinet prepared to move on with this? Mr. Chairman. As far as I'm concerned, this is about working together. It is, however important, more than just pensions: are we still prepared to do business in the polder? I'd like to talk to a trade union movement like that that once came to a solution about the VRS. I don't have much with a trade union movement that this weekend, screaming "war, war, war," allowed the Prime Minister to blare. I don't think that's the way to move on in this country. I also hope that in this Chamber opposition and coalition dare to work together. That would be my call, too. It's shut down now, but I hope it's not an end. As far as my group is concerned, it is clear that doing nothing is really not a solution. Let's keep doing the best we can together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u188	Mr. Asscher, you're not the only one who's through all the interruptions, so you don't have any more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u189	I do have questions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u190	Yeah, I know, but we made agreements, so if I'm gonna let this happen, I'm gonna have to give everyone a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u191	I'd like that, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u192	I'll allow one question for everyone. Mr Buma is already ready with a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u193	That is a question I must allow, but just for the record: I would have liked to know earlier, because I would have asked more questions. You've been pretty strict, and I've listened to that very carefully. Either you're the chairman, or we'll do it ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u194	All right, I give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u195	No, Mr. Chairman, I mean...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u196	No, no. Now there's a negotiation. I'm sorry; proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u197	I see Mr Asscher in total disarray. We shouldn't have that, so I'd like to give him that chance, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u198	No, because that means I have to renegotiate with everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u199	I just heard Mr Buma say that he wanted to allow me to ask that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u200	No, no, no, no. I also know Mr Buma well; I know all of you. I give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u201	Mr President, I object to that. I really have the impression that the majority will allow me to ask this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u202	Then I'll let everyone have one question, not just for you, and if you want to take advantage of it, I'll allow it. So one question, Mr. Asscher, but that also applies to the others: everyone gets one extra question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u203	Thank you, Mr President. I hear a constructive speech from D66: we must move forward. In fact, Mr Van Weyenberg says: we have to get out together and the cabinet has to come out with the polder. My appeal is whether he is prepared to give the cabinet a broader mandate for this. I understand very well that not everyone will get their way in everything, but we have to note that it has not been done now and that this is actually not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u204	Thank you for this question. Because it is the poodle's core: what are we going to do now? It could be a question of 'we do not like that part of the package coverage' or 'we do not trust politics when it comes to the committee on one-to-one relations'. That's what I've heard say. Then we always have to talk about it. I was also allowed to negotiate with you: you know that the door is not closed with me. But I do need the feeling that the intention is to come out together. Last week, after the blows, I saw reactions from the polder that did bother me and gave the impression that there was a huge gap, when I thought there was a hole. So if I have the confidence that we're gonna get out of this, I'd love to talk. That we then disagree, I understand, but I do want to feel that the intention of all parties is to get out. This restoration of confidence will precede it before I reach a specific negotiating point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u205	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u206	Mr. President, I was ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u207	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union... Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Van Rooijen was a bit slow, but still has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u208	Mr President, my day is not complete without the interruption of the esteemed colleague Van Rooijen, so I welcome this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u209	Yeah, you're inviting everyone a little bit. Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u210	I invite you to get on the race bike with me in the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u211	I know. You're bursting with energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u212	Mr Van Weyenberg says: we have to get out together. Is he willing to talk to us about the calculus rate as well? Or is that a taboo, cast in concrete, like: The Dutch Bank has recorded this for eternity and we can't talk about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u213	I'm not into taboos. I would think it would be very unwise. By the way, the cabinet is talking on the basis of an opinion from the Economic and Social Council. In my opinion, it said that risk-free interest rates remain the starting point, but I also like to ask the cabinet that question. Moreover, as far as my group is concerned, there is a very good way of getting rid of this interest rate, and that is really going to go to personal jars. Then there's nothing left in a collective pot and everything is someone's and then you're off the billing rate, but I know that this has so far been a step too far for Mr Van Rooijen. But who knows?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u214	You may also ask one additional question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u215	Yeah, plus one extra,
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u216	No, this is the one extra. I'll keep track. Not just me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u217	Then I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u218	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. Mr Bruins has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u219	Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union wants a fair and sustainable pension system for all, for the current generation of older people but also for future generations, because everyone is entitled to a good pension, including the young people of today. Trust in the Dutch pension system has declined in recent years. For a long time people were told that they were saving through the employer for their own pension, but that turned out to be slightly different. In Dutch occupational pension funds, an average contribution is still used in which all members of the pension scheme have the same contribution and the same structure, despite the fact that young people's contributions can last much longer. This means that young people receive a relatively low level of education so that they can contribute to the retirement of the elderly. When the young people, in turn, have reached the second stage of their career, the new young people will return to their pensions. And that goes well as long as the population composition doesn't change, but with more and more older people living longer and healthier and with more and morezzp'ers not contributing to the joint pension fund, that system is not sustainable. It is therefore high time to adapt that pension system so that it is in line with the circumstances. The current generation of workers already has more pension costs than previous generations but will receive a lower pension than the current elderly. This situation is becoming even more acute, and this is at stake in solidarity between generations. There is only one sensible way: to move to a system where you save more than now for your own pension without losing the benefits of scale and risk sharing. It is written down in the coalition agreement and there is no alternative. It is therefore extremely disappointing that the pension consultation between employers and employees has failed after eight years of talking and that the polder is not a solution. That's extremely bad news. Bad news for the elderly, bad news for young people and bad news for our country, that the polder, that employers and employees have not found each other. My question to the Prime Minister is this: has this carried the polder to the grave and, if not, what role can the cabinet have to get the unions and employers back to the table? Is it true that there has already been a high degree of agreement on the necessary new system in the area of pensions and is it indeed stuck in the adjacent areas, on the additional requirements, on the additional guarantees? The employers also have their responsibilities to take on, because I think they are quite invisible as a whole. What's their role? What didn't they want to make the cabinet offer higher? Mr. Chairman. We are now in a period of high economic growth, as Mr Asscher said, and this is the time for a pension reform. Or even more precisely put: the best time is already behind us. This was under the period of Mr Koolmees' predecessor, when interest rates were even higher. But apparently you don't get out with the polder until it's almost too late, until almost those pensions are cut. I call on the unions and employers not to do management by crisis but to respond on time and to table again. But I do not rule out the fact that the unions have overplayed their hands because future majorities or future Cabinets, even if they might have a more left-wing signature, cannot simply make a better offer without playing with fire when it comes to the sustainability of Dutch public finances. Because with the uncertainty surrounding the Brexit and the Italian budget, the thinning financial markets and the end of the ECB's quantitative enlargement policy, it is not unthinkable that next year or the following year the financial situation will be less favourable and that pensioners and future generations will have to pay the price because afterward the offer of this cabinet was better than they could have ever dreamed of. An offer too good to be true. I have one question for the Prime Minister: the further from here, what will the cabinet do now that the polder does not deliver? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u220	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Linde on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u221	Mr. Chairman. There are days when I don't think about my own retirement. Your pension is for later. You pay your taxes and your premiums, and you don't want to think about it too much. But when you've worked hard for a lifetime, you want to make sure your old age is good for each other. You want to make sure you can stay in your house, go on vacation and do nice things with your grandchildren. As your retirement gets closer, you're questioning that carefree old age more and more. Is my pension still rising with all taxes and taxes? Or am I just gonna get cut short? But also: do my children still have a pension? And why has my 45-year-old son barely built anything, now that he wants to move on as a self-employed person? Mr. Chairman. We should be proud of our pension system. There's plenty of money in our joint savings fund. Surveillance's been neatly arranged. The system has even been named the best in the world. We want to keep it that way. Too many people are worried right now. Older people should have a view of indexing. Young people just want an honest story. They want to see what's built up for them inside that big pot. And everyone wants solid pension funds. All that was within reach. We were almost there. Employers and employees have talked, consulted and negotiated. The pension agreement itself was just ready. It wasn't overly liberal. It wasn't a socialist blueprint either. It was what wise people worked out together in the interests of all the Dutch. And that's why failure hurts extra. In substance, the parties were out, and pending legislation, we could have agreed to avoid threatening discounts. But and margin, the parties wanted to settle all kinds of other matters. The wish lists were pushed up into the unreasonable, with a predictable result.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u222	The VVD now has a tear-making story. He pretends to want to protect the pension system, to maintain it and to do the best for the pension system. In the meantime, however, the VVD does not stop taking the decision today to reduce pensions. Because if he really does, he says, "Whether or not there is a pension agreement, I will prevent it. I'm gonna take care of it with my friends in the Cabinet. We will arrange it by increasing the calculation rate by half a percent at least for the coming period." Why doesn't the VVD do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u223	Because that's when you fool people. Then you transfer the bill one-on-one to the next generations. You count your empire by beating up numbers, and the generation after us gets the bill for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u224	That's some bullshit. The last ten years have not been indexed. The pension fund has doubled in the last ten years. It can no longer be explained that you then have another system that says: we have to cut short. While the only thing the VVD has to do with its friends is even more, they deliver the Prime Minister to say: we are really going to stand for all those people who have built up pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u225	And now the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u226	And the question is, Mr President, why does the VVD leave it to prevent pensions from being cut, even for the coming period?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u227	Let's talk about the calculus rate. In America, they're doing exactly what the PVV is proposing here. In America, pension funds are allowed to set their own interest rates, which means that there are pension funds that use an interest rate of 5%, 6%, 7% and sometimes 8%. The money's being acclaimed there. Mr. De Jong, I don't want to see that in the Netherlands. I want us to be careful. But let me think carefully with you about what we can do. If I understood the Minister's letter correctly, and I had already understood him behind the scenes, we could certainly do something. We can reduce the buffers and index faster, but we also need to cut faster. And with that, we do have a view.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u228	Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u229	I'm not talking about America, I'm talking about the Netherlands. I am not talking about increasing the interest rate by 8%. I am talking about 1.5% now. I would like to increase that slightly, because yields are achieved at 7%. That's a huge hole. And you come up with a story about America. I have nothing to do with America. I'm dealing with the people in the Netherlands. And thanks to the VVD, unnecessary pensions will soon be cut. Because you're failing to be there for those people. Stop playing games! Set it up with the Prime Minister! Stop cutting pensions!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u230	Mr. Chairman. This is about cheating on your constituents, and I'm not gonna be a part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u231	Last question for Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u232	Can Mr Van der Linde explain something to me? If the level of coverage of large pension funds is currently around 100%, 102%, but below 104%, how can it say with a new system: then there is no longer any reduction and indexing? The cabinet doesn't want that interest rate to change. Because of this low interest rate, in another system, in that new system, this level of coverage will simply remain 100% in the coming years. That's because the arithmetic rate is so low. It is a fairy tale to say: a new agreement will no longer be shortened and indexed. That is bullshit, because the level of coverage at that low interest rate is, and remains, 100%.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u233	With the current financial supervisory framework, we assume full indexing from 130%. This means that a buffer of 30% is maintained. The people here in the public gallery have paid for this, and it is moving on to the next generation. I'm talking about that money you could bet. And yes, the funds are not at 130%. But you can use anything above 100% in a new system for example indexing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u234	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u235	We have given the social partners a great influence on the future of our pensions. Power and influence is a responsibility. I have to say that the unions have not taken that responsibility. That's what they're doing. They're failing their own supporters. It is pretended that everyone from 60 years of age wants to retire as soon as possible and is "tougen" everywhere. I come across very different people: doers, people who are happy to work, who are willing to contribute to our pension system, but want clarity, for themselves and for the next generation. I don't want to lose sight of those people. I therefore hope that everyone in the polder still puts their own right aside and just goes round the table again, to do together what is good for all Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u236	I think Mr Van der Linde is the only one here in this Chamber who has already made an advance on what is to come. He has already said in the newspaper: if they are not out in March, we will do it without unions. Now there has been a poll today from EenVandaag which shows that the trade unions are indeed right, namely that their supporters do not support what was there. Is Mr Van der Linde prepared to apologize for that remark or at least take it back?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u237	I don't know what to apologize for. But I would like to say to Mrs Marijnissen that I have learned a lot. I have seen that the trade unions, and indeed the other social partners, have not gone any faster. So I certainly won't set another deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u238	Last question, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u239	I'm listening very carefully. Mr Van der Linde has learned a lot and he is not going to set another deadline. But he has set a deadline on behalf of the largest party in our country, the VVD. He says if they don't get out in March, we'll do it without the unions. Then I wonder: what exactly are you prepared to meet without the social partners?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u240	In my own party, I have hardly been told that we have pension negotiations for almost all Dutch people carried out by trade unions representing only a few percent of the Dutch population. But all of us in the coalition agreement have chosen to put these unions in a position. That power and that influence is a responsibility. I regret that it is not being implemented. I only hope that the unions and the other social partners will still shoulder their responsibilities and just get back together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u241	No, Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u242	But this can't be happening. As Mr Van der Linde puts away the entire trade union movement...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u243	It's his opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u244	As Mr Van der Linde puts away the entire trade union movement, a trade union movement that has more members than we all have here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u245	No, Mrs. Marijnissen, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u246	Van der Linde, you must...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u247	No, Mrs. Marijnissen, no. Then I'm going to see Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u248	One thing did trigger me. Mr. Van der Linde said: it's like all people are 60 years old and when they are, they'd like to retire. But he knows other people who like to contribute. I also know people who are over 60 and still like to work. But doesn't Mr. Van der Linde know those street makers, those masons, those people in education who are 63, 64 and who crave their retirement? You know him, don't you? We really have to work for that, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u249	Mr Stoffer mentions here one of the biggest problems and one of the biggest puzzles that every SZW minister gets on his plate: this minister, the previous minister and the ministers for that. Those heavy-duty professions are a problem. That is a huge administrative challenge. We don't have a solution for that. But here's what's happening right now. We have asked the ESC to give an opinion on the second pillar pension. That advice is all there is to it. Now we are trying to push a margin of that agreement, which is completely ready, for a little while the zzp'er is obliged to put in a pension and to settle the heavy professions. What's with the gentleman or the 68-year-old lady with a small pension on it? It's just another year before he hears from us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u250	We agree that there really is a bit of a problem there, but I just wanted to be clear whether Mr Van der Linde knows those people who do. I'm talking about people in their 60s who think every day: I can't last a day. That was my question and I think he answered it in the affirmative, but I would like to know whether that is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u251	I won't take anything away from that. There are 60-year-olds out, worn out, but that's not on a 65 or 66. It's already in people around 50. You have to start thinking a lot sooner about how to use these people differently in the labour market, because we do need everyone in this booming economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u252	I heard Mr Van der Linde of the VVD speak about the trade unions. He went in a direction that surprised me a bit, namely: are they still parties that have sufficient support in society? My question to Mr Van der Linde is therefore whether he sees these parties as a fully-fledged negotiating partner. The second question is the following. You also suggested that they didn't take responsibility. Will you stick with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u253	What I have said is that I have the greatest difficulty in explaining to my party that unions, with such a small constituency, have so much power. But we chose that in the coalition agreement. We've put the unions in position. I have said that this is a responsibility, a responsibility or a responsibility. I hope they live up to it. They haven't, but I hope they will. I have faith in that. You cannot explain to me that the trade unions are ultimately going to do something that is not in the interests of the Netherlands. I therefore trust that the trade unions will take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u254	Now it is true that these unions have six times more members than political parties. So you could say that at least they have a little more mandate and support. I believe they have about 1.7 million members in total. I also find it rather shocking to hear that you are starting to mess with that. That might also tell us something about how seriously these parties are taken. I think that's pretty sad, actually. One party says: I do not accept the deal as it is, because I want more flexibility in the construction, in the increase or in the reduction, because I want another compensation or because I want construction for thezzp'ers. You then say: yes, for the time being they have not taken their responsibility. That's also some kind of blackmail policy. How do you view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u255	I don't see the blackmail. If you get such a huge role in getting a pension agreement for the whole of the Netherlands, what's there to blackmail?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u256	The blackmail is very simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u257	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u258	Yeah, finally. The blackmail is very simple. You say that you see that they have not taken their responsibility, while they have their responsibility... That may be the lack of perspective that I often see in the VVD. They have a different point of view than you do. Their perspective is that they have to organize something for the grassroots that they can explain. That's the same as when you don't get out in a coalition agreement. Then you cannot say that one has not taken responsibility. That's way too easy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u259	I still think that a pension agreement that is written together in the ESC is the short blow. If we have to do it ourselves, Mrs Marijnissen asked a question about this too, we will soon be another year. There's something there now. That would be an excellent base, wouldn't it? People, take your responsibilities. Just sit around that table again. I'm not just saying that to the unions. That's what I'm saying to the employers. That's what I'm saying to the crown members. We have to be able to get out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u260	You were ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u261	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u262	Thank you. Finally, Mr Stoffer, on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u263	Mr. Chairman. You'd say, "How is it possible that you can't reach a pension agreement?" Trade unions are making progress in terms of retirement age and early retirement tax. Pension funds need to keep fewer buffers. And pensioners don't have to be cut short. Then everybody's happy, right? Unfortunately, that is not the case. It's like game theory. One of them thinks, "I can bring in more." And the other thinks: this is going to cost me a lot; they're not going to let go of such a good offer, especially now that discounts are threatening. But at the end of the day, we're not achieving anything at all. There are years of preparation for a system review. Everything would be ready to take great steps during this cabinet period. The coalition agreement was clear, but we still seem far from implementation. I really hope that the Minister will be able to give us a slightly brighter picture in a moment than what I am now presenting here. We can put the question of who is guilty here today, but I am much more curious about the answer to the question: how can we find a solution for our older people, for our young people and for those in between? With the absence of the pension agreement, I also asked myself the question: why is the pension agreement so important now? Because we are losing that with headlines, the VVD has just brought it to mind as well as 'the Netherlands has the best pension system in the world'. The SGP is indeed convinced that we have a brilliant pension system. Many other countries are jealous of it. But we are also convinced that it can do even better. In what areas should this system and can it be improved? I would like to mention four points. First of all... The labour market has changed considerably in recent decades. GroenLinks already mentioned that. A major concern of the SGP is that there are a lot of self-employed people who do not set aside enough for their retirement and who are going to think: I am empty-handed. It should also be more attractive for them to build up pensions. Second. At the time of the increase in the AOW age, it was promised not to abandon those with a heavy occupation. We were just discussing it in an interrupting debate with the VVD. Unfortunately, that promise has not been fulfilled. It is therefore essential to offer them, where necessary, an affordable option to stop early. Third. There is little confidence that your investment today will lead to a reasonable benefit in the future. We crave to gain more insight into the individual structure, so that everyone can see for themselves what they are building. Fourth. There are many elderly people who have been thinking for years: things are getting better economically, but why can't I see any of that now? Pension assets are increasing, but may not be paid out. Our question to the Minister is whether he can promise that he will continue to fight on these issues. I know that he has done so in the past period and will take steps. Finally, I would like to ask a few questions about the process itself. The first is: have the negotiating parties ever agreed on the broad lines and is it just about the details? The second, much more important for looking forward: is another glue attempt made? The SGP hopes that we will soon come to an agreement, for our older people, for our young people and for everyone in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u264	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I suggest we suspend until 8:10.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u265	We will continue the debate on the failure of the negotiations on a new pension agreement. I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u266	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, I have to leave myself at 10:00, as I have told you, because of a trip to Colombia and Argentina, but of course I'd like to be there until 10:00. It's a good thing I get to start answering. Let me start by saying that several Members have also said how important the subject is. We're talking about something that hits a lot of people. It affects all those who have worked hard and want to enjoy a good pension. It affects people who are still working hard and want to be sure of a good pension in the future and who also want it to be clear what they can count on and that we are honest about it. This in fact affects virtually all people in the Netherlands who work, especially all those who work as an employed person, and that is the vast majority of the workers in the Netherlands. What we often forget is that older people often have children and grandchildren themselves. They therefore not only attach themselves to having a good pension, but in my experience they are also very well aware that it is also about a good pension for their children and grandchildren. This whole pension system is a very fragile asset. It's been built over many years. According to all kinds of research, it is indeed one of the best in the world. I remember a coalition meeting in which we talked about the outcome of the elections of a new Brazilian president. As chairman of that consultation, I said: and now we are going to talk about improving the best pension system in the world. This also indicates that each country has its own problems. Nevertheless, having the best pension system in the world, we face a few very big issues. We must not let that fragile property, that pension system, fall out of our hands. We must ensure that it is maintained for future generations as well, and that the people who are enjoying it now, if it is possible at all, do not get a reduction in the pension and also get a glimpse of the growth of the pension with the developments in wages and taxes in the rest of society. Against this background, employers and employees have spoken for a very long time. I think you can say that they were very close to each other in the Economic and Social Council. They were practically out. There were still a few points, but that was in my absolute conviction. But we always knew that this discussion would also go hand in hand with the question: what does the pension provision mean in technical terms: the second pillar of the first pillar of the agreement? The cabinet, of course, considered what had been discussed between the social partners. I refer to the so-called Telegraph Agreement of the end of May this year. That leaked out to De Telegraaf. In particular, of course Wouter Koolmees has had a lot of conversations with social partners. I can also mention Mariëtte Hamer, the chairman of the Economic and Social Council, and her team. They have been tirelessly working to see if it was possible to build bridges in the tripartite consultations of employers, employees and cabinet. In the last few weeks, therefore, there has been a very wide-ranging view of an agreement on that pension itself and, above all, there has been a discussion on what was needed to get out of the first pillar. By the way, just one comment about that pension itself. We have often talked about it: what is done when it is finished, when we are completely out with the SER advice and the cabinet response? It is not what the cabinet intended in the coalition agreement. We have taken steps in consultation with the social partners whom I and Wouter Koolmees, the Minister for Social Affairs, and also the coalition, in the interest of coming out together. But what was there did differ on important elements from what was in the coalition agreement, but that, of course, should not be engraved in stone either. A number of important objectives, namely the prevention of reductions and a better understanding of the development of prosperity or, in any case, the development of wages in the rest of society, were at the forefront of us, in addition to the robustness and solidarity between generations. We were willing to take steps. We were very far out of it. The question was what was done. Actually, you could say: macro we're pretty sure what's here works; micro we think it works. We've made a lot of calculations of how this micro would unpack, even in the light of the average systematic. But we also said to each other in those last days of the negotiations: it can still get stuck. It may still be that, in the further development in April, May next year, it turns out that this is not the case in technology. Then we said to each other: to the impossible we are not held. We think it's working, both macro and micro. Macro we actually know for sure, micro pretty sure, but that will also have to turn out immediately in that whole design of the transition system. And again, if it didn't work then we don't think that will happen, otherwise we wouldn't be doing it with all of us then no one is kept to the impossible. Then we'll find a solution together. There was a lot of confidence that it could work, so in those last two weeks the discussion focused very strongly on the first pillar, on the AOW-piece. You have seen the steps the cabinet has wanted to take. We have, of course, done so in the light of what we knew from the leaked documents from the negotiations between employers and employees, as well as from our own discussions. What cases were there? It focused on the AOW age. You know that we have proposed a compromise, namely 2024. That is between our offer of 23 and the wish of 25. With that we go further than the 2012 Kunduz agreement. Three other things were still playing at the time. That had to do with, as you know, thezzp pension. How do you promote that it will be easier for the people who want to build it? The one-to-one agreement and the texts on it, in part put forward by the trade union movement, on the basis of which we reached a very close agreement on that during the night of Thursday on Friday, the one-to-last round of negotiations. And the issue of the RVU tax, that's the early retirement. Drop the fine. We knew there was still a need for one year of zero. That was a clear wish. We then decided, Wouter Koolmees and I, on the last day of the negotiations in the afternoon, not to inform the coalition partners, but to take that step. If we were to get out, we would confront the friends and the coalition and say: this was necessary to get out completely. But then we had to figure it out. It didn't work. Is that what killed the polder? No, absolutely not. I still have the greatest respect for all the people at the table, both employers and employees, both organisations and their presidents. I also disagree with those who believe that the trade union movement in the Netherlands would no longer be representative. It is true that the trade union movement has fewer members, but so do most political parties. I always tell the chairman of the FNV that he has more VVDs as a member than the VVD itself. About 10% of the FNV votes VVD, we know from research. That's about 100,000 people and the VVD itself has 25,000 members. So he has more VVDs as a member than the VVD itself. If you ask people: do you recognize yourself in a collective agreement, then 70% of all employees still claim to recognize themselves in a collective agreement concluded by that so-called non-representative trade union movement. So I do think the trade union movement is representative, although I would wish they had more members. I think they're responsible, too. It just didn't work out. It didn't work out, and the cabinet is now considering it further. We are not going to say too much about that tonight, because that conversation is really still going on in the coalition. What are the sensible next steps? We'll take our time. Mr. Chairman. That is, I think, the answer for my part, but I'm sure there will be a lot of questions. In the dialogue with the Chamber, of course, I am prepared to answer further questions. The Minister for Social Affairs will, of course, go much further into the second pillar. What the hell was going on? But also the offer regarding the AOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u267	I was wondering...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u268	I'm done with my lines, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u269	Okay. Then I'll go to Mrs. Marijnissen's.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here we see something that we see more and more often with VVDs: that they disagree with each other. We are currently seeing the leader of the VVD regularly leave test balloons, which the Prime Minister says: I do not agree with. We were able to take note of that again tonight. The spokesperson for the VVD says we've put the unions in position. He also cannot explain to his own party that they have so much power with such a small constituency. And then the Prime Minister says: I disagree. What does the Prime Minister think of this, for example in the case of social partners, which he is supposed to be engaged in serious negotiations with?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u271	I'm standing here as Prime Minister of the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u272	Exactly. That's why I'm asking him the question. He's here as Prime Minister of the coalition. He has, as far as we know, joined the negotiations three times...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u273	Four times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u274	Four times?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u275	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u276	Four times even to bring it hopefully to a good result. That didn't work. Can he imagine that this kind of talk from his own party might not really help?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u277	No, I don't believe that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u278	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u279	My answer is no. I do not believe that this is a problem, especially since the VVD spokesperson said: I recognise the important role of the trade union movement in this process. So I don't see that there's a problem there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u280	This evening I see a spokesperson for the VVD, but also a coalition that is working hard on black people and trying to get the black man to join the trade union movement, while I think they have come up with very reasonable demands. Nor do I think it is appropriate for the Prime Minister to get rid of it so easily. We are dealing with a pension agreement that has failed, yet another point in the cabinet that has failed. We are still waiting for real climate action. We're still waiting for people to notice that we're making progress, that wages are going up. None of that has worked yet. Tonight we are also talking about something that has failed again, namely saving our pensions, organising a fair pension for everyone. I really think that the Prime Minister is getting away with it too easily the moment he says he doesn't think it's had any influence. After all, these negotiations failed, didn't they? You have not been able to achieve a good result. Then your party does show an attitude, with real contempt talking about the trade union movement. How do you know?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u281	I don't think my party speaks with contempt about the trade union movement. I thought my party, through the spokesperson, said that the role of the trade union movement in this process was fully respected. That makes perfect sense to me. Furthermore, it is true that this has not been achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u282	Then I shall go to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u283	The first question I have is whether it is true that after 2024 the Prime Minister had a structural offer of 200 million for the trade union movement and the workers' side and that he said that he found it completely incomprehensible that they did not conclude this agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u284	There was a total package of 7 billion, both occasional and structural. Of these, this package included a structural figure of 200 million on top of the fact that, up to 2030, 400 million had already been provided for in the government agreement, with which, I believe, the cabinet actually did what the trade union movement asked for on each of the points. With regard to the one-to-one link, we did exactly what was agreed between the employers and employees in the agreement that leaked in De Telegraaf in May. It was actually literally that text. It was also put on paper by the FNV that night on Thursday night. With regard to the levy, it was clear that they wanted zero, one year a zero. That is what we did at the last moment of the negotiations. With regard to thezzp pension, we have also done what we knew was being created between employers and employees, namely an agreement on the promotion of a pension for those who so wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u285	It is difficult to count the questions that there will be no answer, because I asked: is it true that there was 200 million on offer and that you then called it completely incomprehensible that they did not agree? Instead, the Prime Minister says it was 7 billion and in May we got the impression that it was possible. We cannot judge here that there have been times before in the negotiations that there has been supply and demand. We note that there is a failed pension agreement, which, after three questions, shows that there is not 7 billion but 200 million in structural terms and that, after the failure, perhaps the Prime Minister blamed the trade union movement entirely in the emotion. Does he recognize, does he trust that the trade union movement has the intention of getting out? Is he therefore prepared to engage in this discussion with a broader mandate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u286	I acknowledge that I find... That's not quite good Dutch. I do believe that the trade union movement wants to get out. There's no doubt about that. With regard to what was going on, I believe that we did what employers and employees had agreed with each other in May and also what we knew from the discussions what was important in both the one-to-one and thezzp pension. With regard to the fine on early retirement, we knew from that night that there had to be a zero at least once and we offered it at the last moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u287	The Prime Minister's got a bit of a ring to it. I still have a certain understanding of that, because of course he cannot negotiate publicly, but on the other hand I do not think it is so fancy. In fact, the suggestion is always raised: the trade union movement got everything it wanted and yet they didn't. We can't control that. I have asked several times for draft texts, for amounts. In the end, the offer is less generous than it was initially said. I don't think it's as neat as you keep saying here: the trade union movement actually got everything, but they didn't do it. It is a two-way thing: either the trade union movement has not asked to let go of that link at all, to make it concrete and therefore to pay for it, so that people can stop working earlier with a less rapid increase in the age of AOW, or they have asked for it and you did not want to give it. I certainly have the impression that it is the second. My request to you, Prime Minister, is to stop, in the interests of the pension of all Dutch people, always undermining that confidence in your own partner, because that is a source of concern to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u288	With regard to the one-to-one link, Mr Asscher can look into it himself. This is in the agreement concluded by employers and employees at the end of May, which then leaked through the De Telegraaf. It states that it will not be sustainable in the long term and that clear agreements will have to be made with a subsequent cabinet on the basis of a review and advice. That's what we offered. With regard to thezzp pension, the same agreement between employers and employees states that it should become accessible and more attractive, and voluntary. We took care of that, too. And then there was one point left and that was the discount. That's what we were told about that night: we really want to see a zero once. We offered a half cut, to 26%. We, Koolmeen and I, then decided that last afternoon before the final round of negotiations to offer that zero. I therefore believe that we fully met the wishes of the trade union movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u289	Mr President, I would ask you to remind the Prime Minister that if I, as a Member of Parliament, ask a question on behalf of my party, which I think is important for the future of these negotiations in the polder, it is not enough to refer to a leaked article in De Telegraaf, whatever a quality standard it may be. We must base ourselves on what the cabinet sends us about what is and is not in an agreement. No, I don't like those references to what was in De Telegraaf in May. I'm asking why it's collapsed now. Now, last week. That's what the Prime Minister keeps talking about, because he says, "I've given them everything they wanted."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u290	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u291	So you're actually saying that your negotiating partner is out of his mind. It turns out again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u292	No, I'm not saying that. I respect every choice they make, but I point out two things. First there was a draft agreement between employers and employees in May. We do exactly what they want, except on that RVU and we did so at the last moment. Then, of course, there have been conversations about those three different difficult points in four sessions we had. To begin with, about that one-to-one link in that night by the FNV itself a text was made that we agreed on at dawn. We all understood that an agreement on 6 billion cannot be made during an ongoing cabinet period. That is about the cost of the entire assistance in the Netherlands, the cost of the whole police force in the Netherlands, two thirds of our armed forces. That's what you do in a formation. There was a great deal of concern at the trade union movement about the confidence they could have in politics. That has led Koolmees and I to discuss this in the coalition meeting on Monday and that there has been a signal from the coalition to the trade union movement that all four coalition parties feel that this one-to-one is no longer possible, that it is a perfectly justified wish to take this seriously, that they are all in favour of texts that point to 'we are looking into that so that it is ready for the next formation and this is something 2025 needs to be arranged'. That was in line with the lyrics I thought we were out at night. With regard to thezzp pension, it was always clear that in those talks, including between employers and employees, not only from that agreement in May, but also from the discussions afterwards, the trade union movement and employers came to a form of voluntary promotion of the conclusion of azzp pension. There was one hard point that night and that is that the trade union movement said: we must have a zero on that RVU. That's what we offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u293	I shall now turn to Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u294	Mr President, thank you very much. This Prime Minister has failed hard and hard. He lost valuable months, in which he could also have chosen to do something for the Dutch people and then, of course, it is about preventing pension reductions and allowing indexation. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore when will he start doing so? When will he start making sure that these people regain confidence in the pension system? We must now ensure that we at least get those reductions on pensions that are threatening us off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u295	Yeah, that's what this whole process was for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u296	I understand the Prime Minister has to catch his plane. He's already done it to some other spokesmen...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u297	No, I have an hour and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u298	He took about more time at the introduction to tell him he had to catch the plane than to talk about the pension agreement. But my question is this. There are people who are worried about their pension, who see that they have been able to whistle to indexation for ten years. So the promise that supposedly everyone in the wallet would feel better has turned out to be a gross lie, even when it comes to pensions. Now the Prime Minister has the chance to make up for all this today by saying that we are adjusting the interest rate by half a percent or a percent, so that we can at least make sure that the discounts are off the table for the coming time; so I am not going to negotiate that, I am going to do so. What is the reason why the Prime Minister chooses not to do so simply for the Dutch people, for all those people who have built up pensions, who work hard and hard to get a normal pension at the end of their working life?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u299	What we all want is to avoid, if possible, the risks of reducing pensions, as much as possible, and wherever it can provide a perspective for the growth of pensions with, whatever happens, the people under 65, 66, 67. That's what we all want. The route for this is a new appointment about the pension contract. Actually, it was there. This would have led to much more visibility on indexation and significantly mitigate the risks of discounts. The Netherlands Bank had already said that we will also take into account this pension contract in the event of imminent reductions in the coming years. That's the best route to do this. The route proposed by Mr De Jong is another. He says, "You know, let's go politically messing with that button of the calculus rate." That's voodoo economics, because what you do then is taking a big risk with future generations. We don't want that. That has to be established by technicians. There is also a process for this through the Commission's Parameters. It determines what's best to deal with that Ultimate Forward Rate. If we mess with that as politics, turn that button, we will have some pretty good elections in the short term, because many older people will vote for our party if we do so. But the risk you're running is that our young people will eventually be at great risk with regard to the benefit of their pensions. I told you, that pension system is a fragile asset. It's a little vase that we hold as a society, and if we don't be careful, it's gonna blow out of our hands on the floor. That hasn't happened yet. We're still holding the vase together. The retirement negotiations didn't work out. Well, let's see what else we can do in the future. The vase isn't broken yet. But if you did that, you'd break the vase.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u300	It is a political choice, even more so, a political choice made by this Prime Minister a few years ago, to adjust that interest rate, downwards. That was a choice made possible by this Prime Minister. So don't tell me we shouldn't be messing around with calculus rates. What I am asking here is to make sure that the discounts for millions of Dutch people go away. The Prime Minister chooses a route of long backroom conversations, while he could also make the choice today as Prime Minister. And then he can put it away if it's irresponsible or talking about future generations, but that's bullshit. There is a huge difference between the returns made by pension funds and how they currently have to calculate their risks. Bring that a little more balance. That's something you could do today. If you still want to talk to the unions about everything about the pension system, then you are free to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u301	Mr. De Jong, what's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u302	But at least now make sure those pension discounts go away. If you don't, you're a more worthless Prime Minister than you've been in the past few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u303	No, Mr. De Jong, we have to stay civil!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u304	There's nothing civilized about letting pension discounts go on and whistling up and looking around as Prime Minister while you have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u305	What Mr De Jong is doing is really very dangerous. He is really playing with fire when it comes to this fragile balance that exists in our society with regard to 1,400 billion invested pension assets, which we have built together over many years, an asset of employers and employees, not ours by letting politics mess with the calculus interest rate. It's dangerous. Don't. You're removing the entire support from the system. It's the wrong route. You leave that to the experts. If we all want to have a view of non-shortness and indexing, we must ensure that we have a pension contract that makes this possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u306	If the Prime Minister uses that kind of big words, as a spokesperson, you know you have a point. Because then the Prime Minister won't remember any other way out. It's about the following: if you're a younger person, you look at the current pension system and you see that people have worked their whole lives but can then whistle to indexation for ten years, while you also see that there are enough buffers and that there's enough money to index and avoid discounts at least for the coming years, then you lose confidence in the pension system. What is so dangerous for the current pension system is when people unnecessarily lose faith in the best pension system in the world. This Prime Minister is looking away from that. That's a hell of a scandal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u307	What Mr De Jong is doing is nothing but charging you with an uncertain return by means of a higher interest rate in advance, which may be achieved in the future, but perhaps not. That's very unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u308	It is Mr Van Rooijen's turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u309	The Prime Minister has been telling me in debates over the last three years that he is not about pensions, that is a matter for the social partners and pension fund management. I can see him nodding. Then I don't understand how he says that Thursday night, when he doesn't go about it, yet I'll go about it, when I get my way, I'll take the threatening discounts off the table. That's weird, 'cause it's not about it. I'd like to know what's going on. But now there is no agreement and now he says: then the threat of discounts is back on the table, because my offer is gone. That's what makes the elderly play ball of whether you get what you want or not. That's not fair, is it? Can you explain that? You say you don't care. Yet you make an offer to get what you want, you do not get what you want and then the elderly are punished, they go into the penalty class of uncertainty of threatening discounts in the coming years. And you will continue to try to get your way over the next few weeks, with the threat of the discounts again on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u310	It's the other way around. As we saw that employers and employees agreed in the Economic and Social Council on a new pension system, this would also have resulted in an ESC opinion, presented to the cabinet, with a cabinet response. It also required a series of agreements on the AOW. That is a political fact, because there was a link. Mostly about this, the discussions took place in those last four meetings. If we had agreed on this, it would be the case that the supervisors would already take account of that new system and choose not to cut it against that background, provided that funds are above a certain level of coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u311	That answer, I don't understand it at all. The supervisor's not about that at all. We have legal rules that say: if you stay under 104% for five years, we are now in the fourth year, we need to cut down. It is not that, if you had gotten what you wanted that night, Knot would have said to you: I'm fine with it, those discounts are off. It's not even about that. The law states that if four or five years are not achieved, the ABP stands at 102% today, so it probably does not have to be cut anymore. That's not what Klaas Knot is about with a phone call. Isn't that just bullshit you're telling me now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u312	Oh, boy! Yeah, hello, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u313	Yeah, what do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u314	But I'll leave those words with you. The point is: we were very much in agreement on a new pension system. If that had materialised, you would have a pension system that would be more likely to index, so letting pensions grow with what people under 66/67 get and there would be less risk of discounts. Knowing that this will happen, you can anticipate the new pension system, in addition to the amendment of the law, part of the agreement. But now that we cannot do that because that agreement has not been made, I would again be guilty of the accusation I made to Mr De Jong, namely that I am taking a great risk with the development of interest rates over the longer term, in the context of the current pension arrangements. That's unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u315	I don't understand that answer. What you are actually saying is: I have not got my way now, the threat of discounts continues to exist, I am going to explain to the voters in the coming months, and you will understand that I have not got my way and that the discounts remain on the table. On my own initiative proposal, I asked a question that you do not want to answer. Perhaps the Minister would like to do so later, because whether or not you are prepared to support our own initiative proposal, which must be done through the group, which means that the next few years will not be reduced if we are temporarily below the coverage rate due to the ECB effect, which the CDA and also DNB say is absolutely 1%. Are you prepared to support our initiative through the political groups, because that is what the groups are about? 'Cause those discounts need to be off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u316	They can leave the table, in a lot of cases, if there's a new deal about the contract. But what Mr Van Rooijen wants is to take those discounts off the table by intervening in the accounting rate. GroenLinks does it differently. They take more time to recover...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u317	So do we. So do we.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u318	Don't talk through it, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u319	...by going from five to seven years. I think that's a dangerous route. That is dangerous because you run the risk of relying on an uncertain return in advance, which may be achieved in the future, but perhaps not. That's why you shouldn't. That is why we have made strict agreements on the five-year period, on who is watching it and how we are doing it. So I think we all agree that Chamberwide is the second pillar of the current system, not the AOW, but the current pension that you and I are building with our employers, has had its longest time. In fact, the social partners agree on this. If you make such an appointment, you also have a better view of not shortening and indexing. That's the right route. But you don't, and then you're going to adjust the duration of that calculation rate by looking at how long a pension fund is below 104.2 or you're going to pay the calculation rate yourself, as Mr. De Jong suggests... or a combination of those two liabilities... that's a risky strategy, because then you're consciously taking the risk that future generations can't count on the pension they thought they were saving for that. So one can't do without the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u320	Maybe the Prime Minister can answer my next question. We use the expected return for the premium calculation. That's up to 3%. For the obligations we use 1%, so the coverage rate gets a huge dent and the discounts are so close. That's very inconsistent, and that's what everyone thinks, by the way. Do you agree with me that it is impossible to explain that you can use an expected return for the premium calculation, which means that premiums are 10 billion too low? The State benefits from this by paying less premium to the ABP. Do you think it is reasonable that the premiums should be calculated with an expected return, but not for the liabilities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u321	I think it is right for Mr Koolmees to go into that further. But let me say what we wanted to see about this with the social partners. The basis of the forward rate structure is risk-free interest. That is an objective and generation-neutral valuation measure. But for interest rates in the very long term, there is actually no good market price; Mr Van Rooijen, of course, knows that. So this Ultimate Forward Rate, that UFR, applies. That is also necessary, because that type of business in the market for maturity is simply limited for more than 20 years. So that could lead to instability. You can't make a stable statement there about how that case is developing. That is why we have determined how we regularly re-determine the best route on the basis of the UFR Commission. That committee shall be composed of independent experts. Every five years, it delivers an opinion on the UFR method. It is again part of the long-term interest rate structure and therefore pension funds have to measure their pension liabilities. That's the best route, because you'll put it in independent hands. And if we are going to adjust elements of how this is calculated, because that is convenient for us, then perhaps in the short term that will be good news for the people who are now enjoying their pension, but bad news for their children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u322	I did not ask about the European UFR for pension funds; I will return to the Minister tomorrow. I asked a question about the expected return. The expected return of 3% may be used in the calculation of pension contributions. That's not allowed in terms of obligations. It is, of course, very strange that you say that there are actually two interest rates: a high interest rate for pension contributions, which means that the workers pay too little contribution, which benefits the state, and a very low interest rate for the liabilities. That's not consistent, is it? That's about 10 billion a year, already for five years. For five years, 10 billion premiums have been paid too little. That's 50 billion. This reduces pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u323	That too was part of the agreements we were making. We also wanted to make arrangements for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u324	Mr. Van Rooijen, this is your last question. I should like to warn you if you would like to ask Mr Koolmees any further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u325	The Prime Minister won't be here anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u326	But then you made it all up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u327	I'll be here till 10:00. I've got plenty of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u328	My final question to the Prime Minister is as follows. With the average premium, there is a problem of 65 billion, perhaps 100 billion. Can the Prime Minister now say that he is fully compensating for the 65 billion, even for the people in the gallery? Can he now promise that this will not be at the expense of the workers and certainly not of the pensioners, because they have nothing to do with it? The average problem is a matter between the employees themselves. We believe that pensioners should never suffer from the blank cheque of 65 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u329	That is why it was also agreed to work very intensively together in a club of government, unions and employers. I said at the beginning of my speech that we actually agreed that this macro is going to work. Micro is very likely to work too, based on a lot of calculations that have been made. As a government, we have also set aside 200 million a year for this average systematiek until 2030. As a government employer, we have also set aside 200 million every year until 2030. So that's what we had planned. With that club that would work to shape it all further we would make sure that it would run. There was concern, for example, at the VCP about some pension funds with people in the sector of better-earning professions. We have said that in unique cases a committee can also see whether we can adjust the transitional period so that we can ultimately ensure that this transition to the average system does not have any consequences. That way, we were going to fix that. I am also, in fact, convinced that this would work, with the agreement that we would not have been held to the impossible if it proved impossible in May next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u330	You're done, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u331	I just want to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u332	No, no. I'm going to see Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u333	It is always tempting to continue with the long-term interest rate structure and the UFR, but we will also have the Social Affairs budget tomorrow. Today we are also talking about the question of how we are going to proceed and what has happened now? The Prime Minister actually says: we have offered everything the trade union movement wanted. But at the end of the day, I have to say that there is no agreement. If I hear everyone in this room a little bit, that is not acceptable to anyone. The big question is, how do we proceed? I'd like to ask the Prime Minister the following. Is he prepared to increase the playing field again, to take a step back and, for example, to ensure that we include the 1.6 million people who are not currently in a pension system and are not building up a pension, and to oblige the employers they work for to pay pension contributions? Is that negotiable for the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u334	In this respect, we have joined in our proposals what employers and employees themselves were negotiating among themselves in the framework of the forthcoming ESC opinion. We have made a concession in this respect, including 100 million in structural terms, to promote pension savings in the second and third pillars forzzp'ers. I believe that this will make it possible and easier for those who want to do so. But the fact is that employers and employees agreed together that it had to be voluntary. You can also see this in that part of May, the leaked pension agreement that was ultimately the basis for the forthcoming ESC opinion. That's how this coalition looks at it. So that was a match.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u335	When it comes to thezzp'ers, the real entrepreneurs, and the way they participate in pensions or not, I understand that there is a voluntary approach. But I'm talking about something else. I would ask the Prime Minister not only to refer to the agreement that has not been reached, but also to look at the relations in the Chamber. After all, we are also talking about legislation for which majorities need to be sought. I would point out that it is important for my party, and for several parties here, that we should give it to all those people who are not now insured with a pension, and not through the idea that they should start paying contributions themselves, but by obliging the employers for whom they work to pay contributions. I am talking, for example, about the mail delivery staff and the parcel delivery staff, who are working overtime at these times for all the presents that need to be delivered. I ask the Prime Minister whether he can at least discuss this, because I think that the answer to that question is important for the follow-up and the way in which we are going to come up with a new pension system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u336	I don't think that's the right order. We are really responding here to an opinion from the Economic and Social Council which is in the process of being adopted, which is not included in it. It's skinned except for one hair. Mr Klaver is actually asking me whether I would like to call on the partners in the Economic and Social Council to include this request in the forthcoming ESC opinion, which is not included in this request. I think that's a weird order. There is, of course, another discussion about the wholezzp system. That is also what the government agreement says. Mr Koolmees has also sent a letter on this subject. I thought that was this week. I hear it was last night. This shows that a number of things that we want to do are still faced with legal objections, including European law. We're just trying to figure it out. Of course, this is also seen to an important extent in the group referred to by Mr Klaver, i.e. people with a low hourly allowance who are now working as a zzp'er. That is what the coalition agreement sees as well. It hasn't worked out yet. We're working on that. Along that route, this debate is taking place here, but it would be strange if Mr Klaver asked me to ask employers and employees to amend their own ESC opinion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u337	I hope the Prime Minister will take a look at his hands. I think they're empty. You can refer to opinions that are there, but there is no agreement. So the question is, what's next? How do we proceed? How do we ensure that a new pension system, a new pension system, is created? I would point out that it is important that the people who are not currently insured, such as thezzp'ers or payrollers, are also assured of a good pension. What the Social Affairs Minister's letter shows is that the route chosen by the cabinet is subject to European law. That route doesn't really work. So we need something else. The route you can choose through pensions is then a very good one. I do not need to discuss the substance of this matter entirely, because that is not my point. The question I am asking the Prime Minister is a political one: is it possible for the Prime Minister to discuss whether we are going to ensure that employers are obliged to pay pension contributions for all their employees? Is that negotiable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u338	If Mr Klaver wants this to work out in the end, as I do, I know that he wants it to. I do not think it will work to start negotiations here on a split basis, with the result that we are also entering into very precarious discussions that have taken place between employers and employees and are probably still taking place. Nevertheless, I do not feel that we are so far apart now. I think that you can come a long way along the route of the desirability also laid down in the government agreement to ensure that people with a low hourly rate are preferably employed and not working as a zzp'er. Once again, the letter from the Minister for Social Affairs points out that it is not so easy to achieve this, but I think that we share that political goal; that is also in line with the coalition agreement that is now under way. But I don't think it would be wise to lead that past the pension discussion in the ESC, because then I'll make it very complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u339	My question to the Prime Minister is whether he sees this as an intermediate step in finally reaching a deal with all partners. I wonder how he looks back on his own role and what the sequel is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u340	These negotiations have not been successful. I can tell everyone's dying to get us out. I also know that employers and employees are very close to an agreement on the pension that we all save in our companies, that is to say, the second pillar. It ended up stuck on a number of adjacent topics around the AOW. I still have the impression that everyone is dying to get us out of this. We are going to talk intensively over the next few weeks about what the cabinet needs to do with it. That is what I said just now at the beginning of my introduction. As soon as we've laid an egg on that, we'll notify the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u341	I would like to go back to the discussions with the social partners, because for me it is not quite clear what has actually gone wrong. I hear the Prime Minister say a few things. To begin with, he says: with that one-on-one coupling in the AOW, we actually did exactly what was in that earlier leaked piece. I wasn't there, but I'm assuming that's what was in the Economic and Social Committee opinion. With regard tozzp'ers too, he says: we are doing the SER advice. With regard to the calculation rate, I assume that we will continue to think risk-free and still do the same thing as we did in the advice leaked earlier in May. The Prime Minister has said that we are going to cut the fine on early retirement schemes and put it to zero in the last year. The only point where I see a gap is that the FNV says "no, not until 2025 to 67" and that the cabinet, if I understand the documents correctly, offered 2024. Is that what it all came down to? In addition, Mrs Klijnsma's cabinet has already more than reversed the 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u342	Yes, and another year further than the cabinet intended. I find this complicated to estimate. I can only say that on the basis of what was going on in May and the discussions we had, we thought we were out on these three very difficult issues. With regard to the one-to-one link, I think that almost Chamberwide, from SP to PVV and everything in between, it is said that it can no longer be maintained. I have also said this to the unions, but of course they were distrustful, because they said that in the past you have also concluded social agreements as a political one and you have not always kept to the agreements in all areas. They're right about that, too. I said at the time: but here I think you can derive certainty from the fact that this is carried in Chambers. If something did not go well with an appointment in the past, it was often because a limited majority of the House supported it. This is really Parliament-wide support, but do not ask a sitting cabinet to find another 6 billion. I just can't. That's too much money. That's not real either. It's almost undemocratic. You're gonna have to put that in an election campaign. That needs to be arranged in a formation and it doesn't need to be done until 2025. But I think the political statement is that everyone wants it to be repeated here this evening. I thought we'd be there to record it like that. At the same time, the unions said on the last night that they wanted more anyway. They didn't just want to put on paper what we agreed on that night, I think, they also wanted butter with the fish. So they've moved over. That can also be due to internal grassroots council. I respect that. In any case, they wanted to have that 6 billion hard covered in the end. It just can't be. I don't know where I'm supposed to get it from all of us. You don't have to. The political support is there. The second point was thezzp pension. We didn't really talk about that or hardly anymore that last night. This, of course, was also the subject of discussion between employers and employees. There were ESC texts in the making to do it voluntarily, but to stimulate it. Finally, the RVU. In that night, it was perfectly clear that they absolutely wanted to. "At least once zero" was said to me. We've been in touch all weekend, making calculations. The offer there was had a present value of 900 million. Of the 900 million you can offer for the heavy sectors port workers, people in construction, street creators, tailor-made work. No, they said. They didn't agree and it didn't add up et cetera. Then the half ring came to 26 and that cost 750 million and then there was 150 million for customization. That's why we said to each other, without wristing the coalition: okay, then we're gonna offer that zero, because we want to get out. That's what we asked. We said if you do that, we'll go back to the coalition and we'll be out. I have made that reservation, but I have the impression that the group chairmen would have said yes to it. That's why I dared to do it, but we didn't polish it in advance. In our opinion, this was the last big point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u343	It's tricky. I wasn't there, and that goes for all my colleagues here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u344	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u345	Some of the negotiators are sitting in the public gallery watching. Without wanting to blackmail it, I would like to say that I find it disappointing and frustrating that we were, in fact, pretty much out of pension contracts. I do understand very well the questions concerning the impact of company pension funds in particular. And on the adjacent plot, especially the one-to-one coupling, was exactly what I read in De Telegraaf in the leaked piece. Now I understand the point of trust in politics. I'm quite sensitive to that, too. I think that at least the coalition parties will come back to that in the second term. We may be able to help in that. The summary of the Prime Minister makes it rather complicated for my group to assess where the problem ultimately was, other than in a lack of confidence or such a committee would actually be there in the end. I have heard many questions about the negotiating mandate. It is difficult to look for a mandate if you do not really know where the substance of the remaining problem lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u346	I can only value. My assessment is that after that last Thursday, we decided to have butter with the fish as far as that one-on-one link is concerned. That's 5 to 6 billion. I don't think it's reasonable to ask a sitting cabinet. It was also 2025. That was also the reason why we spoke in the coalition on Monday, and on behalf of the four coalition parties, the signal was sent to the trade union movement that the entire coalition is behind it. And they were already able to count on the PVV, SP, GroenLinks, Party of Labour, 50PLUS, Party of Animals... Am I forgetting another one? I think it's all over the room. I understand the point of trust. The zero on the RVU we offered. What they asked for was there. I'm not blaming anyone. You've always been a supporter. It can always be that things go differently there. I think that's all understandable. The fact is that it didn't work out now. I still hope we can work it out at some point. In the coming weeks, we are going to consider the way forward, on the form and on the basis of which documents that should be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u347	I believe that everyone in the Chamber has a pension agreement in the interests of young people, workers and pensioners of great value. I have one specific question. The calculation rate is often mentioned, also in reconstructions. I therefore understand that the risk-free interest rate, because it remained a collective pot, was no longer under discussion and had already been concluded between the social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u348	No, I think that was also the case in the texts that were in the Economic and Social Committee. They had united around that committee. It was also discussed how we would deal with it. We would form the club of the three parties, namely employers, employees and cabinet, in order to develop everything further. If then next May it turned out that it was going to get stuck, we would solve it. We probably would have to do it just the same, but we thought it would be okay, because macro was all calculated and micro-calculations have been made so much that it works. You can always slide with the transition period. That was a point that was very strong at the VCP. In certain funds where it is extremely complicated with people with a slightly higher income with a small population, problems may arise. I think we were able to solve them with that. And there was generic 200 million available for the transitional issue up to 2030 and 200 million to assist as a government employer in this transition issue, so that was all there. I think we figured it out. I suspect, but I have to value that too, that when that zero was offered, it was ultimately on that one-on-one coupling and now it's hard work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u349	It was also about the interest rate and the reductions that are now threatening. My group, my colleague Paul Smeulders, has announced that it will come up with a legislative proposal to extend the recovery periods. We're not gonna touch the interest rates, because you really need to look at that in conjunction with each other. You shouldn't take that out, because then you're really gonna gamble, but I'm fighting that you couldn't touch the calculus rate, because there's room within European regulation, so there's bandwidth. If we were to extend these deadlines by two years, we would buy time when pensioners will not suffer from our political inability to reach a pension deal. Is the Prime Minister prepared to look at that bill with an open eye?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u350	We look at every initiative draft with an open mind. We'll advise as soon as it's here. I've just said quite frankly that I do have doubts. It is a different form than turning the button of interest. In your proposal, the five-to-seven-year deadline is set. I continue to think that this is vulnerable, because in the end you are going to take a greater risk as that period moves forward with the interests of the people in that fragile balance between young and old in the pension system. Anyway, we'll look at that with an open eye, of course. Can I also honestly say that I immediately have some initial concerns there, may I call it that, Wouter? - Oh, yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u351	This is important to me. I'm glad the Prime Minister says he's willing to look at it with an open eye. Those who support this proposal and say, "Okay, we're going to buy time to make sure we don't have to cut down on those pensions later," take on the obligation to make a deal. It is indeed risky. If you're gonna move that term now and then nothing comes up, it doesn't necessarily have to work out. That gives you the responsibility to finally get out with each other. That is what I find interesting about the proposal that is before us. As far as I'm concerned, that's linked to it. I'm just saying that we need to take a step back now to see the wider playing field again, in order to finally achieve a broadly-supported pension deal and a new pension system. I believe that this law is also a sign of confidence, both towards unions and towards pensioners, that we are prepared to take steps to ensure that these discounts do not continue. That's really the balance I see in this bill. Those who wish to support this also say that they have a responsibility to get out within two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u352	Yeah, okay, we're gonna take a serious look at it, but I hope you've also heard that I have some real concerns about the proposal. Let me be honest with you about that. I'm not going to repeat that concern. I really appreciate the constructivity. I know that Mr Klaver genuinely means to offer a solution. But there's a real concern there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u353	The Prime Minister has taken back the previous words that it was completely incomprehensible from the union, and I appreciate that. I think that will provide a basis for getting back to normal, if your negotiating partners respect that. Then the Prime Minister says he can't find six billion, but he offered 200 million. My question is whether he would also be willing to see what is possible between them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u354	With all due respect for what I have for Mr Asscher, I find it a bit easy. We're offering 7 billion, and in 15 years we're gonna spread a lot of stuff. Eventually, that's a present value of 7 billion. This package contains 200 million structuralally, as well as 400 million until 2030 in the coalition agreement. These are very large amounts of money. The most important thing is that we respond to all the points that we believe in all sincerity that the trade union movement, which may have wanted some more, was making agreements with the employers, such as thezzp pension, or which we knew we really should have: once zero on the RVU and at the point of the one-to-one link. So to say, how much money are you more... It is also good to report that social security coverage was not at the expense of welfare benefits for people who are weak, but would end up with employers or employers' interests within the Social Affairs budget, and they were not happy about that. So I have the impression that they were not happy with that at all, but that eventually got pushed down the throat. And then they would have had room to do a little bit of their own design, but it would still be within the employers' part of the Social Affairs budget. I don't think we would have had a fight about that in the end. But bathing, may I, in all friendship, call it that, chairman? I think it's a little too easy to say about the 200 million and then not mention all the other things, so not the whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u355	Your last question, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u356	If there's a bigger story, I can't wait to hear it. I asked for it three times and received a letter today, which says: 4 billion occasionally until 2024 and then 200 million structurally. That's real money, but it's the numbers you give yourself, so that's right. Then you say here as an argument: I can no longer cover. Now my question, but I don't need that whole scrawny argument about what happened. If you want to get out and this wasn't enough, which was your own analysis, then stop blaming you for the honesty of how the unions negotiated, and then there will have to be more. So my question is: are you prepared to offer more than the 200 million structurally?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u357	If you think you're doing what the trade union movement asked for in a decent way, not overreacting, it's very complicated. Of course, we did not override, but I believe that we really met the concerns with a package with a present value of 7.5 billion, and also with the 400 million to 2030 structural that was already in the coalition agreement. Then I find it very complicated to say here: we are going to do that again. That is a bit like Thomas Manns Buddenbrooks, a quote I have often used: in 1848, the people shouted "We want a republic!'; And when Johann Buddenbrook says, "You already have a republic," it sounds like, "We want another!'. I get that feeling a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u358	Mr. Asscher, I'm going to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u359	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u360	No, I don't mean cynical. I don't want to be funny. Mr Asscher also wants to get out, I know that. However, I can honestly say something about the bathing tone he takes on the 200 million, forgetting all the other amounts: the 400 million to 2030 structural, and the 4.4 billion. And the fact that I think, and I ask his response to it, is that we have been honest and honest smokers by meeting the wishes of the trade union movement. And then he asks here, "What else do you want to offer?" Well, for what? Then you end up in this one-on-one capturing. Well, that's 6 billion, and we don't have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u361	It's again: the rest is all crazy. In fact, Mr Rutte is the only one who has understood. But it doesn't convince. People don't trust that, and they're right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u362	I'm going to see the Minister of... Oh, Mrs Marijnissen has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u363	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I asked the Prime Minister another question. It was about whether he had had any contact with that street maker from Venlo, who he really called to vote on the VVD because then that street maker could stop working at 65.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u364	No, I haven't spoken to him in person. In the meantime, we have been ten years and unfortunately we have been in a position to do so, and I have often said that times have changed. We are in a situation where keeping the pension at 65 is not feasible both financially and socially; we simply need to be real about it with each other. Thought has shifted, in a lot of parties, even in my party. In addition, of course, we have a few questions to ask ourselves. How can we make people stop if that's really important? What's possible for that? Well, there was a pot for that, to at least do it without a fine. The law already provides that you can return to two and a half days' work without penalty. So you can start working part-time. In addition, it is, of course, very important that employers and workers work together to ensure that people reach their retirement age in a healthy way, and not to put it too quickly on the collective, although I realise that this is not always possible. So, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u365	I think that for precisely this reason many people are losing faith in politics. Mr Rutte says that times have changed, and it is all different now. But not for a street maker like that. Times have changed, but the human body can still work up to a certain limit. That hasn't changed at all, Mr. Rutte. I find it sad that Mr Rutte here says: they can stop working sooner. But that only applies to people who can do it themselves. A lot of people can't do that at all, Mr. Rutte. And with this pension agreement, you have missed a chance to settle something for that. Because in the end there is nothing at all, not even for that street maker from Venlo, who called you to vote for the VVD because then he could stop working at 65.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u366	I'm really denying that. There is indeed a whole package, in which we delay the construction to 67 and address the one-to-one link to life expectancy. We have just discussed this in detail and in fact we find, all parties Chamberwide, from SP to PVV and everything in between, although you could also argue that PVV and SP are politically side by side, that it has had its longest time. In addition, we have made it possible to move forward without penalty. It's about the whole combination. I still think it is the responsibility of employers and employees to take care of it themselves. It can't always be. In some professions, in some situations, you're just at a certain age, but in many cases you can, I think, call on employers and employees to ensure that people can reach that age.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u367	The Prime Minister speaks as if he has reached a pension agreement, but according to my information it has still failed. So the Prime Minister can sum up what he has put on the table and what he thought was a human outcome, but the sad conclusion is that there is nothing. So there's nothing for the street maker from Venlo at the moment. People still have to work longer. It's easy to think from behind your desk or here from the benches that people have to work longer, but for a lot of people that's not an option. I really want to hear from the Prime Minister what he is going to do for those people in this reality and in this situation of a failed pension agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u368	For that, we need a new pension agreement. As a cabinet, we cannot intervene in the second pillar. That is what we do when it is possible with the social partners. Over the next few weeks, we are going to consider how we are going to proceed, with whom, in what form and on what proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u369	I now turn to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u370	Thank you, Madam President. I am and feel responsible for concluding a good pension agreement for everyone in the Netherlands. With this mission, I have been working in front of and behind the scenes for the past few months. In recent months, there has also been a lot of hard work, by workers' representatives, by employers' representatives, by the ESC, Mrs Hamer has just been mentioned by the Prime Minister, and also by SZW officials, sometimes all night long. After the failure of the agreement last week, there was disappointment. There was also great disappointment with me. But this disappointment must only be short-lived, because I believe that it is essential that we work together towards a new future-proof pension system. I would like to comment on the questions put, but first I would like to make a brief statement on the problem. Then I come back in detail to a number of specific questions raised in the first term of the Chamber. We have a special problem in the Netherlands. We have the best pension system in the world, at least according to Mercer's research, but we are actually hearing very little satisfaction about the system. There are also real reasons to change the system, to make it future-proof. Expectations are not sufficiently fulfilled and tensions between generations exist. This has to do with the lack of indexation in recent years, the lack of clarity in the system and the threat of reductions, which has been discussed in detail this evening. As a result, both young and old live the feeling that people are being neglected. In addition, the system is not sufficiently in line with the changing labour market, the system is intransparent and impersonal, also because the contributions paid do not fit in with the pension structure, and there are few options. Moreover, it is not at all attractive forzzp'ers to enter the current system. That is what Mr Stoffer quite rightly said in his speech. All in all, therefore, we have major challenges to renew the pension system. That is not a challenge today or yesterday, because as early as 2010, the Frijns Committee and the Goldswaard Committee have already concluded this analysis. The Economic and Social Council also concluded this in 2015 in the opinion Future Pension Scheme. Mrs Klijnsma's Pension Dialogue in the previous cabinet also showed broad support for the renewal of the pension system. Many political parties have also expressed this in their election programme. During the negotiations on the coalition agreement, the urgency was clear to all. This urgency has been recognised, recognised and converted into a concrete and ambitious pension section in the government agreement. In doing so, the negotiating parties I remember well, because I was associated with what was on the table at the time with the ESC. Together with the social partners, we would like to take the step towards a renewed pension system, in which the abolition of the average system and the adaptation of the pension contract to the new reality are important elements. For pension is above all a condition of employment and arrangements are agreed between employers and employees; Mr Buma rightly said this in his first term. Mr Elzinga, Vice-President of the FNV, I saw him just now in the public gallery; no longer has he said: the polder is about the second pillar pension. That's right. The Cabinet recognizes that, too. That is precisely why, in the coalition agreement, we explicitly went to the social partners in the Economic and Social Council in order to arrive at a future-proof system together. Also in terms of the content of the paragraphs in the government agreement on pensions, after consultation with employers and trade unions, is close to the literal texts that were on the table at the time in the Economic and Social Council and were almost agreed on. I am talking about October 2017. We have written in the government agreement that we were based on an opinion delivered by the Economic and Social Council, in which, in addition to employers and trade unions, the crown members would also play an important role. In the course of April/May I understood from FNV and VNO that they were talking about an alternative form of pensions, which deviated from what was described in the government agreement as "the pension contract." In May, the representatives of FNV and VNO briefed me on the proposals under development between employers and employees. This agreement was leaked on 30 May 2018 in De Telegraaf, with a confidential side letter. I asked the representatives of employers and employees for an explanation. They indicated that they were informally in conversation, but that at that time there was no discussion at the ESC and therefore no agreement. So it really was a partial agreement between employers and employees. On 12 June, I sent a letter to your Chamber stating that I was still awaiting a broad-based ESC opinion. Since the summer, I have been a minister in the discussions in the ESC on the pension contract. In these talks, a direction that could count on broad support was explicitly sought. I have given the room, in conjunction with the cabinet, for a different interpretation from that contained in the coalition agreement, within the objectives we have set out in the coalition agreement. The cabinet was therefore prepared to do so. Mr Buma, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Bruins and Mr Stoffer asked whether there was general agreement on the pension contract on the table, or how far the negotiators had advanced with the pension contract. My answer is: pretty far. There was a broad-based proposal. There was a limited number of points open, which we had to finish in the final phase. Those were not very basic issues; there were a few remaining points of discussion. My aftertaste was that in the field of AOW and longer work there were still wishes, but that we were pretty much out about the pension contract itself. That doesn't mean everything worked out. It's complex matter. There was still a lot of work to be done, for example on the compensation of the average system: how exactly are you going to shape it? The entry into force of old rights and the valuation framework also needed to be developed, as well as the installation of Parameters by the Commission before the beginning of 2019. I had already announced this to Mr Van Rooijen in the examination of his own-initiative proposal, so that too would be started. The Prime Minister has just stated and explained that in the coming months we would work out very precisely, together with the social partners, i.e. the employers and employees, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the CPB and pension administrators, with calculations. All in all, my view is that we were very far and that there was broad agreement between employers, employees and the cabinet on the pension contract. As the Prime Minister has just said, there was also an agreement on the interest rate. A number of questions have been asked about this. The agreement was that, according to the Telegraph article on the previously leaked agreement between employers and employees, the risk-free interest rate would be calculated from the idea of "underpromise, overdeliver," so that you have more windfalls than disappointments if you calculate prudently. I thought that was a sensible line, which I also took over in the months after. The Parameters Committee would be asked for an opinion. Mr Buma is right about that. This is a good practice in the Netherlands: once every five years we put a Commission on Parameters to work to advise on the technical aspects of the pension system. This happened in 2009, which happened in 2014 and should also be done in 2019. In general, therefore, we agreed on the pension contract. In addition, discussions with the social partners widened the playing field, in particular to the old-age provision system and extended working time. The Prime Minister has just said a lot about it. The trade union movement has also publicly expressed these wishes in some newspaper articles. We believe that, as a cabinet, we have come up with a significant offer to meet the trade union movement in all these areas. Yesterday, in response to Parliament's questions, I replied in writing to what was offered. In the negotiations, we have made every effort and made every effort to make far-reaching agreements on sustainable employability, to achieve a healthy finish line, the AOW age and all that kind of aspect. Indeed, they were agreements with a substantial budgetary attachment. Mr Asscher specifically asked what it was about. In total, we had an amount of EUR 7.2 billion on an occasional basis, some of which is occasional and, of course, this has to do with the less steep rise in the AOW age, i.e. not in 2021 to 67 but in 2024, which costs around EUR 4.5 billion. That is indeed an occasional amount and not a structural amount. In addition, we have offered the adaptation of the RVU scheme, i.e. the heavy-duty occupational scheme, as well as additional money for sustainable employability, in the sense of ensuring that we use preventively so that people can reach the AOW age healthy, but also improve the opportunities for self-employed people to build pensions, including in the second pillar, for which we had reserved 100 million. Those last three, i.e. 100 million RVU, sustainable employability and 100 million for the self-employed, have a structural character. But that is not the whole story, because in the coalition agreement we had already reserved money for the compensation of the average systematiek. If you abolish the average systematic, you have to compensate a generation, roughly between 40 and 60, for the fact that there is no more subsidy in the new system. Before that, we had set aside EUR 1 billion in premium space until 2030. That is a period of twelve years that we need to be able to abolish that average systematic. This costs EUR 240 million net per year, because it is mainly about employers' contributions that can be deducted from the income tax. For this reason, we had reserved the premium of EUR 1 billion per year until 2030. In addition, we had also set aside a further 200 million a year for the public sector employers, in particular the ABP and PFZW because, of course, the compensation of the average system needs to be financed on the government side. So for the same period, 2019-2030, 200 million was reserved for that balanced transition to compensation of the average systematic. So, all in all, there was a big budgetary picture. The Minister of Finance has been kind enough to give me plenty of time to finance this amount. Indeed, if you occasionally have a large expenditure for the AOW age, i.e. the 4.5 billion to 2024, then it is very complicated to absorb it within the budget. Since it was such an important subject, which is also important for the longer term for the Netherlands, we decided within the cabinet to take fifteen years to pay this bill. In other words, the account became clear and manageable and could thus be spread over that longer period. All in all, therefore, more than EUR 7 billion for the package that was on the table at the top of the 450 million structuralally already included in the coalition agreement. That means a substantial budget batter. This also indicates that we consider this to be very important as a cabinet, that we have taken this very seriously and that we have also made a very serious offer to the trade union movement. Mr Buma asked what requirements were placed on the table, even after the summer, and how we reacted to them. The freezing of the AOW age at 66 and only in 2025 to 67 was a requirement. I would also like to mention the halving of the one-to-one link between AOW and life expectancy, which is therefore about 6 billion structuralally, research into the tax treatment of part-time pensions, the abolition of the RVU tax and compulsory participation ofzzp'ers. For some of these aspects, agreements had already been made between employers and employees, as the Prime Minister pointed out. They were also included in the leaked agreement between employers and employees. I refer, for example, to the compulsory participation ofzzp'ers, who had actually already been cut off between employers and employees. It had already been decided that it would be voluntary. As a cabinet, we have said that we are going to do so with regard to the examination of the tax treatment of part-time pensions. That's what we did on offer. As far as this one-to-one link is concerned, I think the Prime Minister has explained it nicely. The leaked agreement in De Telegraaf stated that there would be an investigation and that it would have to be decided by the next cabinet. We have offered in the negotiations over the last few weeks that we would do so, including the confidence that a broad majority in the Chamber might see this as an important point for the longer term. Because if we are indeed getting older, but not getting older in health, it is, of course, unsustainable in the longer term that this AOW age continues to rise, while people who are not able to reach the AOW age are unable to achieve health.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u371	Is it true that there were a number of additional wishes, so to speak, after the summer? What really stood as an unfulfilled demand when it broke?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u372	If it's all right with you, I'll walk them by point by point. That's the most schematic, I think. At the AOW age we offered as a cabinet: in 2024 to 67 years. The demand of the trade union movement was 2025. Earlier in the trial, I had offered 2023. So 2024 seemed like a good compromise to achieve this. Then you get the link to life expectancy in 2025. So that's well after this cabinet period. The night we spent all night negotiating on this issue, we also negotiated a draft text. We had no agreement, so everything was subject to reservation or was concept. However, we had negotiated a text which indeed addresses this point and acknowledges that this is a problem in the longer term. A committee would also be set up to map this out, to make a proposal on how to deal with this healthy life expectancy and the AOW age, and to make proposals on how to finance it. Again, it is about EUR 4.5 or EUR 6 billion a year. You can't just find that, so you really need to think about it. That can only be settled at a formation. Well, we have already agreed to examine the tax treatment of part-time pensions. That's what we were gonna do. Then there's the RVU charge. The Prime Minister has just said something about this. We first made a package consisting of halving the RVU from 52% to 26% in the three years for the AOW age, plus a package of 150 million in those fifteen years for sustainable employability. In fact, we have said: that money is better spent in the next few years, let's just say: until 2024 we are going to use it for customization in sectors that need it, such as construction and a number of sectors that have already been mentioned. Next came the question of the trade union movement: "We actually want more here. We want to see a zero here." Well, that was the reason why we said together that Tuesday, that last day of the negotiations, that we should offer that zero. And then we changed the package. With the compulsory participation ofzzp'ers, my picture has always been that before the summer there was just a deal between employers and employees. But we would do our best, because I see Mr Klaver's point: how do you make it more attractive forzzp'ers to participate in pensions? And then, of course, it helps if you can eliminate the average system, because then the premium input becomes more transparent and personal. We have also written down that we want to start APFs or PPIs. Sorry about the technique, but that concerns pension funds that are really aimed atzzp'ers, just as it also aims to create an attractive proposition for thosezzp'ers, so that they could participate in the second pillar pension scheme. So we had also reserved 100 million for that. But Mr Buma's question was: what exactly did it get stuck on? Let me put it this way. When we made that last offer on that Tuesday evening, the offer of the RVU one year for AOW at zero, which also makes it possible to customize on a sectoral level and which also allows you to make agreements between employer and employee, my expectation was: now we are here. I really had that expectation, also given the text of the leaked agreement before the summer in De Telegraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u373	Thank you. I've linked another question to this. During the period between August and the failure of the consultation, did additional demands from employers also arise in relation to the previous period? Or did they just stay the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u374	I'm gonna think real hard. According to employers, there were no additional requirements with regard to the pension contract. As the Prime Minister just said, employers did have problems with coverage, because a large part of the package on the SZW budget would be covered by employers' subsidies in particular. That is why we have made an offer to employers. We've said you're gonna cover it, but you're gonna have the freedom to think along the way. I am thinking out loud, but I think that was the only point that was still open on the employers' side. The Prime Minister is now whispering to me that employers also had the opportunity to put down an alternative, but on the condition that it would be financed in those 15 years, also in view of sustainable public finances and sound coverage. Mr Van Weyenberg had a specific question on the one-to-one link. I think the Prime Minister has just gone into this in detail. So I'm gonna skip that question. Mrs Marijnissen has asked: are you prepared to abolish the RVU levy in its entirety? The RVU does not fit in with the government's policy to promote participation in the labour market. We also do not want new VAR schemes, we do not want generic schemes that allow people to leave early. We are prepared to make tailor-made work possible, either at sectoral level or between individual employer and employee, by indeed setting that fine to zero in the last year and halving it in the two years before the AOW age. Just for the lovers in this room at the late hour: if you keep working more than 50%, then there is also no RVU tax. So there are also opportunities for part-time pensions and for generation pact schemes. Then you can think of a package between employer and employee to gradually facilitate the step towards part-time retirement and exit for people who have worked for a long time, who have a hard job or are no longer able to do so. But we didn't want generic regulations or VAR schemes. This would also have a major impact on labour supply. At least 50,000 people. But it would also have significant budgetary effects, namely more than EUR 1 billion per year in structural terms, which in turn has to be financed elsewhere. What I also think is important is that both employers and employees should have a financial incentive to ensure that people continue to work and that we should also focus on sustainable employability. I understand very well that if people work in a particular sector for a very long time, and indeed, as Mrs Marijnissen just said, they are physically exhausted, it is also a responsibility of employers to provide solutions and to consider how to ensure that people are healthy enough to reach the age of AOW. If you introduced a new FAT scheme, you would remove that responsibility from the employers. I do not think that this is a sensible policy and I do not think that it is a sensible one. Mr Van Rooijen has asked a few questions about the interest rate. I don't see him right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u375	There's Mr Van Rooijen already.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u376	Tomorrow we will be discussing it in detail in the Social Affairs budget, so I shall be very brief. A specific point: EIOPA's accounting rate. Then we are talking about the UFR of the European regulator. We've talked about that a lot. The UFR of EIOPA is actually about insurers. It's actually about Solvency II, which includes very different buffer requirements. I do not think that this is a fair comparison, but Mr Van Rooijen knows that. I think it is wise that we should discuss the technical aspects in detail in the SZW budget tomorrow. It is important for tonight to say that within the ESC, but also as a cabinet, we thought it wise to assume that risk-free interest rate together with the UFR. It is determined by the Commission Parameters, by scientists and independents, on the basis of the need to deal prudently with the calculation rate, thereby increasing the chance of windfalls and reducing the risk of setbacks. A specific question from Mr Van Rooijen concerned the link between the premium side and the valuation side of the liabilities. Mr Van Rooijen has a point to make. I have also said in a debate with Mr Van Rooijen earlier that it is not sustainable in the long term if you have too low a premium. Actually, we have a 75% premium coverage rate. In other words, for every euro premium that is deposited, you will receive more pension rights. This is not sustainable in the longer term. That was also part of the discussions on the alternative pension agreement: that it would simply go to a cost-covering level. I therefore very much agree with Mr Van Rooijen on this. That is why it is an extra pity that it did not succeed, because this problem could have been solved right away. Mr Van Rooijen also asked for the discounts. I believe that Mr Buma has already dealt with this in his term. The idea was, of course, that, in anticipation of a renewed pension system, we would no longer assume the limit of 104.2% of the MVEV, the minimum capital requirement, but that we would go towards 100% coverage as a steering level. This would mean that all funds with coverage between 100% and 104.2% in the transition to the new system would not have to be cut. Mr Van Rooijen is right that this requires legislation, but cuts would not be necessary, provided that the new system is introduced. I hope that I have answered Mr Van Rooijen's specific question. Then the sequel. Last Tuesday evening, to my great disappointment, the workers' organisations withdrew from the negotiations. Unfortunately, this has not succeeded in reaching joint agreements on this more robust, newer, more personal pension system. There is therefore no new pension contract that is better suited to the changing labour market, the ageing population and the current low interest rates, even though we were very close. I'm still very sorry about that. I have worked hard over the past few months to reach such an agreement, such a deal, and I really had the hope and expectation that we would reach an agreement. Now that a pension agreement appears to be a job, the problems remain for the time being, as the Prime Minister has already indicated, but the urgency to renew the pension system remains high. That is why we, as a cabinet, will be considering the follow-up process in the coming weeks. I intend to inform you about this follow-up process at the beginning of next year. Mr Buma and Mr Stoffer asked me if the cabinet is prepared to talk to the polder again when they call. Of course, when the phone rings, we answer it. However, I note that this issue has been discussed for eight years. Of course, that is not for nothing; it is complex matter. That is also part of my dilemma, to leave it very open: it has been discussed for eight years and it has still not been possible to reach a deal. I think it is important that there is broad support for such a renewal. I also believe that there was a very reasonable package on the table to achieve this reform. I have two more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u377	I'd treat that one first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u378	There is another specific question from Mr Klaver about a bit of a dirty term: the white spots. It's about people who don't build a pension. I sent a letter to your Chamber last week about new CBS figures, showing that the proportion of people who do not build up a pension is much greater than we previously thought. The new CBS methodology shows that. I agree with Mr Klaver. It is a focus for all of us: how do we reduce the number of white spots, the people who do not build up a pension? For example, Mr Klaver mentioned mail delivery workers. With Mrs Keijzer, the Secretary of State for EZK, I have agreed that 80% of all postal service providers will get a contract and be hired, which will also enable them to build up their pensions. As regards thezzp'ers, the Prime Minister has already indicated that we are in the process of legislation to better protect the bottom and that we are also trying to regulate security and pension building there. For the payrollers, the people who work in a payroll construct, there is also a paragraph in the WAB, the Labour Market Act in balance, on what is an adequate pension for that group, precisely from the thought that Mr Klaver asked attention to, namely: what people cannot build a pension? Finally, you see a double picture of temporary workers. On the one hand, there is a long waiting period, on the other hand, there are temporary workers who do indeed build up a pension, even though they work less than 26 weeks. For the initiative legislative proposals of both GroenLinks and 50PLUS, I agree with the Prime Minister's words. Of course, we are going to look at the content of the proposals. I don't want to get ahead of myself, but... Let me just put it to that, with the words the Prime Minister has chosen. Otherwise it'll be a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u379	This minister has completely failed when it comes to the pension agreement. Because it's not there right now. The Minister could, of course, restore this by taking away at least one of the greatest pain points when it comes to the pension participant himself. This is also about restoring young people's confidence in the pension system. He can do that by removing the discounts that are now threatening, so by ensuring that those discounts do not go ahead. Why doesn't the Minister of Social Affairs choose to give that to the Chamber today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u380	Mr De Jong and I have talked about this more often in recent months. If we had a total system reform where we would have a view of a future-proof sustainable pension system and it would also be rationally fair, so that there would be a balance between generations, then we would also have had the opportunity to remove that discount. Now, apart from a new system, apart from the reform that is in sight, if you turn buttons, you're going to explicitly redistribute between generations. And I don't think that's fair. That position is well known to Mr De Jong. We've talked about that before. I do think we have a responsibility to come up with a good proposal, to come up with a good pension system before those reductions threaten. As you know, for most funds, the measurement time will be 31 December 2019. This means that there is some urgency to come together to establish a future-proof system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u381	Finally, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u382	The minister says don't turn buttons. But the reason why we are now in trouble, for example with regard to calculation rates, is that politics itself has turned these buttons in the past, making it unnecessarily difficult for pension funds to avoid discounts and to index pensions. That is a responsibility which, to a large extent, lies simply with politics. My concern is this. Mr Van Rooijen has previously put forward an initiative proposal to at least adjust half a percent or one percent of the interest rate so that these reductions are no longer necessary in the short term. That you then, as a minister, choose to talk to the unions about everything and everything within the pension system, you are free to do so, whether I agree or not. It is now a matter of calling on this Minister to ensure that these discounts are cancelled. If the Minister says "no, we don't; we shouldn't turn buttons," he doesn't see the urgency it should have, and that's unworthy of a minister. So my question to this Minister is once again: step over your own shadow and make sure that those discounts are not necessary for the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u383	The first point is the historical look-back. In the past, pension funds were indeed allowed to charge an interest rate of 4%. That was at a time when actual interest rates and yields were well above that 4%. At that time, that 4% was a prudent accounting rate. At the request of the pension funds, the first ftk, the financial review framework from 2003 to 2006, is linked to market valuation. That was at the request of the pension funds themselves, because before that time the returns were much higher. So basically we counted our arm, was the theorem then. At that time, the pension funds were asked: do us the other interest rate with that market-based valuation and match the risk-free interest rate. That happened then, and then the interest rate dropped. Unfortunately, that has been happening since the 1980s. That is not the responsibility of politics. We have always invested this, as the Prime Minister said, with independent experts and with the Commission Parameters in 2009 and 2014. That was from the total design of the system. This is, therefore, a historical correction to Mr De Jong's speech. I have just said that I think it is very important that we try to avoid these discounts. This can only be done if we revise the system in a broad sense and if there is a general fair balance if we reform the system. Now, if you turn a button unilaterally, you're gonna shift big bills between generations. I do not think this is wise for confidence in the pension system, even in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u384	Fortunately, I have just heard the Minister say in reply to questions from Mr Buma and I say: if I get a call, I am obviously prepared to sit down at the table again. So I took another look at the bleachers to see if anyone picked up the phone. They're in control, but I don't know if they're calling you. But what if this doesn't happen? What do you do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u385	I see the Prime Minister is looking on my phone right now to see if the president of the CNV or the president of the VCP is already on the phone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u386	He shakes "no." I told you, what if this doesn't happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u387	I have just said that we are going to consider the follow-up steps in the next few weeks in the cabinet. I'll leave it at that. I don't want to speculate too much right now. The question was, "If there's a call, will you answer the phone?" Certainly, but in my letter last week I also indicated that it is my expectation that this will not happen in the short term, because a lot has happened in recent weeks. But my phone's almost always on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u388	Then it has to come from one side, because I understand the Minister isn't the first to pick up the phone. He'll come back to us early next year with what the sequel is if he doesn't get a call. But the minister himself is not going to do anything, except think about what should happen if he doesn't get a call.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u389	If Mr Stoffer is okay with it, I'll hold for myself for a while who I'm calling.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u390	We don't always want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u391	No, Mr. Chairman. I don't want to know that at all. I got the answer I wanted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u392	Mr. Chairman. The ESC is still the ultimate move. Employers, employees and all the crown members have ceased their work, I understood, but the cabinet has made a serious offer. May I assume that the cabinet's offer still stands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u393	That offer was not put on the table for nothing, but I note that it was not accepted last Tuesday evening. That is the situation, but the offer we have made is of course still there. The Prime Minister agrees, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u394	You're all in agreement. The Prime Minister can get on the plane now. Thank you. We will continue with the second term from the side of the Chamber. Mr Klaver has the floor on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u395	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. We thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for Social Affairs for their reply. We wish the Prime Minister a pleasant journey. I hope it has become clear to the cabinet that I do not think anyone here tonight is satisfied with the fact that there is no agreement and that we do not have a new pension system. I also hope that it has become clear that this must be a moment of reflection. In 2011 there was almost an agreement that it was not. In 2018 there was almost an agreement that it was not. If you think you're gonna have a deal with something that didn't work out twice the next time, I think you're gonna come true. It is really time to look a little more broadly and take a step back and then come together to create a new pension system. As far as we are concerned, this has to meet a number of conditions. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the pension negotiations have not been successful so far;]] [[believes that a pension agreement can only be future-proof if it leads to a reversal of the trend of fewer and fewer people building up pensions;]] [[considers that a pension agreement is only future-proof if early retirement is actually made possible for people with hard work;]] [[considers that the one-to-one link between life expectancy and the AOW age is unsustainable and should be abandoned;]] [[calls on the Government to take the above points as a starting point for a new pension system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-431]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u396	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to make a comment. I am pleased that the Prime Minister has indicated his willingness to look favourably at our legislative proposal to ensure that there are no discounts because we have not managed to reach an agreement here with each other. I repeat: if we get this bill through the House of Representatives, then we also have a great responsibility to ensure that we eventually come to a new system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u397	Thank you. Mr Asscher has the floor on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u398	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for this debate. I would like to express my respect for Mr Buma for the fact that he has been here as chairman of the coalition party. We disagreed greatly in the first term, but I am pleased that he has made that choice in this type of subject. Mr. Chairman. We're in a hurry. People want to be able to stop working sooner. Pensions are on the verge of being cut. Many self-employed people are, in fact, rather unprotected from incapacity for work and for their old age. We have heard an argument from the cabinet that actually came down to: we don't understand it either, we don't understand that they didn't accept our great offer. I'm saying here, you're gonna have to come up with a better offer to make a pension agreement. I very much hope that this will happen, even more so, I think it must be done. The Labour Party will support a good pension agreement, but it must contain those elements and there is a hurry. Stop with the self-righteous. Stop referring to De Telegraaf and what happened earlier in the negotiations. Accept that your negotiating partner sees a right-wing cabinet leaning towards the employers and therefore needs more than fine words. Come up with a decent offer and then there will be support and then we can solve this now. To support that, I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that you should be able to be sure of a carefree old age in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that an increasing number of people are not at risk of receiving their pensions and that a decent pension for young and old has become more uncertain;]] [[Whereas there is an opportunity to reach a broad-based pension agreement that provides greater security for young and old;]] [[calls on the government to send a letter to the Chamber before Christmas on how it intends to break the pension pass;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-432]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u399	Mr President, thank you very much. Yes, an unprecedented disappointment, of course, because this minister had had the opportunity today to say: we are going to take off all these threatening discounts by taking our responsibility and giving the pension funds a little more air. In the past, politics has done the same. In the past, they have also taken measures to adjust the calculation rate. And that has not proved to be beneficial. That is why the PVV has been saying for years: make sure that the calculation rate is realistic and real and more consistent with the returns and results of the pension funds. Then you can easily avoid discounts. Then you can even index pensions without making it untenable for the future. Mr President, this is the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to remove the planned pension reforms and to present a real calculation rate for pension funds, thus avoiding pension reductions and allowing short-term indexation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Jong and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-433]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u400	Mr President, I have tabled a number of motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Calls on the Government to provide the Parameters Committee with an additional mandate to consider how to adjust the calculation rate in the case of softer pension claims and to report thereon by mid-June 2019 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the abolition of the average premium system leads to a socially explosive redistribution operation of between EUR 60 and 100 billion;]] [[points out that, in abolishing the average contribution system, current pensioners are in no way affected by the redistribution operation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the consultation on the pension agreement has failed;]] [[Whereas there was a willingness to avoid the reductions in pensions;]] [[instructs the Cabinet to ensure that part in the interest of current and future pensioners,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Members Van Rooijen and Van Brenk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-434]] [[This motion was proposed by Members Van Rooijen and Van Brenk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-435]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-436]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u401	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a first hand hand is needed in order to reach a final pension agreement;]] [[instructs the government to freeze at the age of AOW at 66,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-437]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u402	Finally, Mr President. I understand that the Prime Minister is prepared to look at an initiative proposal from us to extend the five-year period to avoid reductions in 2019 and 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u403	Thank you. Mr Van Haersma Buma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u404	Madam President. I would like to thank the Minister and the Prime Minister for their first reply. The disappointment about the failure of the agreement remains, even after this debate. I also realize that it is not so easy to make something of what has failed now. I do realize that it is the polder that should take the steps here, and I hope there is a sense that with that near-deal on the second pillar pension part there was a lot within reach, which is important for everyone, young and old. I am also aware that the first pillar, the AOW and things like the one-to-one combination are big questions that we all have to solve socially. If politics has to take over, the differences are very large. One wants to adjust the calculation rate, the other wants a compulsoryzzp pension and another wants the AOW at 65. In short, completely different wishes, which may make it more difficult than easier when the polder itself takes back the initiative. The big issue, in my view, is for all of us this one-to-one combination, the question of how we deal with ever-increasing life expectancy, the fact that you cannot continue to retire indefinitely but at the same time, and at the same time, we know, the great task of financing. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that from 2022 onwards, the increase in the AOW age is one-on-one linked to the increase in the remaining life expectancy;]] [[Whereas life expectancy is increasing further and raises questions about the sustainability of that one-on-one-one age group;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[examine how life expectancy will develop and what is a reasonable relationship between the duration of the working life and the duration of the pension in the long term from the point of view of health and affordability;]] [[develop variants for the link between life expectancy development and the age of AOW and retirement;]] [[develop alternatives for the integration of those variants into sustainable public finances,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Haersma Buma, Van Weyenberg, Bruins, Van der Linde, Stoffer, Asscher and Klaver.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-438]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u405	I was also very pleased that Mr Asscher, as group chairman of an opposition party, was holding this debate. And the others, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u406	Thank you. Fortunately, the debate ends a little nicely. Thank you. Then I'll go to Mrs. Marijnissen's. No? Then I will go to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u407	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment for their reply. It has not reduced the puzzle, because I believe that everyone in this house is looking to break a deadlock that has been going on for years and is bad for pensioners, for workers and for young people, because everyone wants a good pension. If you look at what was on the table, you can also hear a lot of things that were actually already in concept-SER advice, which we could read in leaked pieces. That makes it pretty elusive for us where something like that goes wrong. Much heard is the "trust" point. This remains, if it is not the self-employed, the calculation rate or a strong movement on the AOW-age in 2024. That is why I have also signed with great pleasure and enthusiasm the motion that Mr Van Haersma Buma has just tabled. I think that this is a signal and that it is experienced as well: if we are all getting older and not all these years are healthy, then you have to do something. I also hope that the social partners will feel a heavy responsibility to make a breakthrough themselves, and hopefully together with politics. Because pointing at each other hasn't solved a problem yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u408	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u409	Mr. Chairman. We've heard the story of the Prime Minister and the Minister. I would like to thank both of them for the hard work they have done in recent weeks and, of course, also the polder, the social partners, for all the hours they have spent trying to reach agreement. It's a great disappointment that that didn't work out. I notice that for all the parties down here, but also on top of the gallery, the same is true. As Mr Van Weyenberg said, in the end there seems to be confidence; confidence that employees and employers have in politics. I hope that today's debate has helped to restore some of that confidence. The motion tabled by Mr Van Haersma Buma, which has been widely signed, from left to right, shows that we still want to look at the one-to-one link, although it will be a major intervention, also financially, also for the future. Several Cabinets will have to deal with this later. I hope that this broad-based motion will help restore confidence so that further talks can take place. I hope that the display on Minister Koolmees' call will be able to start scamping again very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u410	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Van der Linde on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u411	Mr. Chairman. We have had this debate this evening in some depth, but let me try to mention what we do agree on. We share the importance of a good pension system for those who work and for those who have worked. I always say it must be robust, honest and understandable. But I realize very well that "fair" for one party is something different than for the other. We also know that it is a huge task to get from macro to micro, as the Prime Minister said. If we now take a courageous political decision, it means that we are still working on legislation for years and then for many years on implementation. So you know that during this implementation, where all these problems for all these pension funds come up, we will call on our minister about weekly to present him with problems. We need broad support for this, even here in the Chamber. We're not getting there with 76 seats. Fortunately, tonight I have heard all the coalition parties, but also the SGP, GroenLinks, the PvdA and the SP say that they want us to talk again. So let us get to the table quickly, put aside our differences and try to come to something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u412	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linde. Then I'll suspend for three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u413	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u414	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you also to the members of the Chamber for their second term. I would like to pass the motions, because I do not think there have been any separate questions asked. The first motion, the motion in part No. 431, by Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher and Mrs Marijnissen. In general, this has also been the commitment of the cabinet. But there is one specific word in it, namely that the coupling should be released, in the motion in part no. Mr Buma and Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher have just been asked to examine this point and to provide cover. In my first term, I have already said something about how we are going to tackle white spots, that people are not building up a pension. I very much agree with that. How to make customisation possible was already part of the package we put on the table. However, given the wording, I cannot but reject this motion, but in view of the motion which Mr Klaver has also signed, the motion in part No. 438 by Mr Buma. Because we must first get an opinion on how this should be designed and also on how it should be financed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u415	That is why the motion is so strongly formulated that we believe it should be abandoned. We also see that we need to look at how you do that, what options there are and what that means. As far as we are concerned, it should not be another year or until the next elections. That is not what Mr Buma's motion is about either, and that was the commitment of the cabinet. That is why I am in any case standing and I see Mr Asscher nodding under Mr Buma's motion. We believe that this should be abolished, that this should be the starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u416	Well, then it's a good thing we're going to take a closer look. The Prime Minister has just indicated in his first term that it is about such large sums that it is matters that need to be decided in a cabinet formation. It is EUR 6 billion a year. They must be covered there. That is also my reaction to Mr Buma's motion. That was also the discussion last week during the negotiations with the social partners. You don't just do this kind of money during the ride. So step one is now mapping out what is a sensible link, how you're going to anchor it in legislation for the longer term and how it's going to provide coverage for sustainable public finances. That is Mr Buma's motion. That has to be settled. It also only covers the period from 2025 and beyond, or 2022 and further in the current legislation. I think you should do that carefully and you can't just say "you do that" right now if you haven't even agreed on how to finance it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u417	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u418	Finally, two things. One. Mr Koolmees is now quite naturally in trade union K, but there was a time when he was here in the Lower House and then he was involved in about every agreement that was concluded here. The spring chord, what was it? 12 billion. The fall agreement that was concluded, I believe, was in five billion. That shows that there really is a lot of money to be spent in the years. So the whole idea that that can only be done at the beginning of a cabinet period is not entirely true and a little bit of an opportunity argument. Second. Mr Koolmees has indicated that we really need to get out of this together and that this requires broad political support. Here three parties explain what they consider important for a new pension system. I would like to suggest to Mr Koolmees that he should be very careful in his final verdict on this motion. In my opinion, it is not even very far apart, but we are saying that this must disappear: we see what possibilities there are, but that one-on-one is a tough demand. We still don't agree on how to pay it, which is still unclear. But it has to go away, it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u419	I find the latter a bit easy, I say honestly. I think Mr Buma's motion is quite right. That is also the line we set last week towards the negotiating parties. This is not sustainable in the longer term. Then you need to start thinking about an alternative link. So you have to develop variants for how you're going to link this up and you also have to agree on funding with each other. It is about sustainability effects of EUR 6 billion in the longer term. That's a hell of a lot. Now say "we're gonna disconnect it anyway and we'll see how we're gonna finance it" I think it's too fast. We should also thank Mr Klaver, also in his contribution to the second term, for working together to ensure that he is covered. So: chart first, see the cover first, and then come to an agreement with each other, that's what I think is the right order. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 431.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u420	I think it's bullshit to pretend there's a limit in the law somewhere for what amount of money you can or can't make agreements about. You make arrangements for the future. That's what you do as a government with the Chamber. There are, indeed, three or four examples of Mr Koolmees' involvement in agreements on large sums, without formation. I heard something else in the second instance and I would like to grab hold of that and meet with each other. In fact, Mr Koolmees says 'at the moment you can agree on a cover, I am not the worst; then we can have another link 'I don't even say which one to meet with the unions'. I think that's exactly where it went. This means that perhaps the display of one of the other participants could be lit up and that the cabinet could get started with a better offer. I hope that is very much so, because it is in the interests of a lot of Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u421	I understand what Mr Asscher said. I don't think it's that easy, I say in all honesty. Indeed, in April, Mr Asscher himself put forward a proposal for the AOW and, in the long term, a link, with coverage from, I believe, the VPB tariff or tax rates. I don't think it's very easy to find cover for that. That is probably what Mr Asscher agrees with me. Moreover, it is about a situation that will become relevant only later, that link. I also think that it is a good point for the election campaigns and for the election programmes how you cover this. The only condition is that you now know what Mr Buma's motion is, which is a sensible link. Is that six months, eight months, ten months? What's that based on? What is the formula for this? What are the possibilities to cover this long term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u422	No, Mr. Asscher. This is really a second time on the motions, otherwise we are going to have the debate again. It has now been discussed extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u423	May I offer an outstretched hand on motion No. 432?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u424	Look! Yeah, you tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u425	Mr Asscher has asked me to send a letter to the Chamber before Christmas on how we intend to break the pension pass. If he gives me until January, I'd like the motion to judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u426	On that point, I agree that we need to finance it. I didn't say it was easy. We have indeed proposed less reduction in the tax on profits. That is a politically understandable choice. But we were never asked to think about how you could cover this, because the cabinet said: that's up to a next cabinet. Try it, because it's necessary to reach a pension agreement now. That is what, as far as I am concerned, is the interpretation of the motion in part No. 431. Then you may, for the motion in part No. 432 as far as I am concerned also use the Christmas holiday, but then there has to be a better offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u427	Then Mr. Klaver. A brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u428	Yes, Mr President, a brief comment. I'm still trying to figure out how to get closer. Mr Koolmees mentioned that the "AOW age is unsustainable and should be released." And it needs to be funded. Because, of course, that's a condition. I understand that Mr Koolmees says, "I don't want to make a promise that we'll let him go." If you say "we're gonna let him go," then there's funding to be provided. Let's write that down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u429	I'm sticking to my judgment. Why? Because I think it's wise. Mr Buma's motion calls for a first assessment of the possibilities and the budgetary implications and financing options. My expectation is that this is such a big point about the longer term that, so to speak, an election programme should be set up in order to invest this. Also from the thought that it will only become relevant far after this cabinet period. I think it's a very important signal. Those were the words Mr Van Weyenberg used. It is a sign of confidence, a signal of recognition that so wide in Parliament the motion in part no. 438 is signed not only by the coalition parties but also by the opposition parties. This also indicates that this problem is recognised. But I think it's too fast now to let go and see how it's covered. I don't think that's very careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u430	No, Mrs. Marijnissen. This motion has now been really debated. Then it is up to the Chamber to vote on it. Normally only the first signatory responds, so I'm already very generous. A brief question from Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u431	The Minister says this is until further notice. That's what I insisted on, because that's not right. It is now relevant to work with the social partners. We have just spent a whole evening debating the lack of confidence here, but it could help to boost confidence if Mr Koolmees supports this, when I think we are very close together. Then we really send a signal to social partners. Because the problem was that it's being pushed forward. That's exactly what you're doing now. So it's relevant now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u432	In our first term, the Prime Minister and I have indicated that we have discussed this frequently in recent months. I also referred to the leaked Telegraph agreement, in which social partners, i.e. employees and employers themselves, say that this is for the next cabinet, on the basis of an opinion. I myself spoke on Thursday night until 6 a.m. about texts that were based on an opinion and a committee. The point of trust I see and acknowledge. That is why I think it is such a good signal that there is such a wide-ranging motion signed, the motion in part No. 438 by Mr Buma and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) That's not something you just do. You must have broad political agreement on this, and also on coverage. So I'm sticking to my judgment on the motion in part No. 431.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u433	It'll be a repeat, so I suggest you proceed to the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u434	The motion in part No. 432. Thank you for the coulance of Mr Asscher for giving me the time until January. I'll give the motion judgment room. I shall now proceed to the motion for a resolution on part No. 433 by Mr De Jong and Mr Wilders on real interest rates for pension funds. Mr De Jong and I have had this debate before. I'm dissuading the motion. In the motion in part No. 434 by Mr Van Rooijen and Ms Van Brenk, the government is invited to provide the parameter committee with an additional mandate to examine how the calculation rate can be adjusted in the event of softer pension claims and to report on them by mid-June 2019. I would also advise against this motion. As I mentioned earlier in the debate with Mr Van Rooijen, there is no relationship between pension contract and calculation interest. I refer to Mr Knot's letter which I sent to the Chamber. The difference in nominal collateral is in the size of the buffers that are provided for it. I do not think that this motion is correct in its content, so that I betray her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u435	Mr Van Rooijen, I give you the floor, but really only on the motion. You cannot go back to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u436	I don't need that signal, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u437	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u438	No, Mr. Chairman. Am I right that this motion is in line with what was offered in the last negotiations on Thursday night, namely that the cabinet was prepared to give the parameter committee an additional mandate to look at the relationship between the calculation rate and a softer claim? I got that from all the media. Otherwise, I'll come back to that tomorrow. But that's why I filed this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u439	We agreed that the parameter committee will deliver an opinion on the parameters of the pension system when examining your own initiative proposal in 2019. The assignment was in line with that of five years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u440	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u441	The motion asks if you are prepared to give an additional commission to the parameter committee, unlike the one in the past. I understand that this has been discussed in the discussions. That could be off the table again, but then I'd like it back on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u442	My job is the same as last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u443	Please continue. The motion in part No. 435.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u444	That motion, tabled by Mr Van Rooijen and Mrs Van Brenk, states that, when the average system of premiums is abolished, the redistribution operation does not in any way affect current pensioners. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. Of course, compensation and a rationally balanced distribution of the account must be taken into account. But "not in any way affected"? I think that is philosophically impossible, because of course it is always about a pot of money that is jointly owned by all participants, even if there are buffers, for example. Suppose you have a coverage rate of 110% and pay part of the compensation from a buffer, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u445	This answer scares me, and I will come back to that tomorrow. But it is not possible for you to say here now that pensioners have to pay with tens of billions, probably, because it is a large share of the elderly for something that they have nothing to do with. They paid the right bounty for 40 years, so did I. Then I would still have to pay for a problem between the employees. That is unacceptable to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u446	I do not think that it is realistic and feasible in any way. But it is true that it must be rationally fair if you are to form compensation. But I'm deceiving the motion. The motion in part No. 436 by Mr Van Rooijen is about pension rebates. I have just said in my first term that I do not think it is wise to turn on small parts. The current system is based on certainty. Those strict rules are part of that. To take away that certainty by turning on one button, I do not think that is rationally fair. In the light of the future system, I think it would be very sensible, hence the urgency to come up with this pension reform. The motion in part No. Mr Van Rooijen ordered the government to freeze the AOW age at 66 years. I also advise against that motion. The requested is financially and socially really untenable. In fact, in 2019, the AOW age will increase to 66 years and 4 months. It's already in the path. There's no cover for that either, so for that reason, too, I advise against the motion. The motion in part No. I believe that Mr Buma's 438 is a sensible step. I also welcome the fact that there are so many signatories, which indicates that this direction is widely recognised and recognised in this Chamber. That's why I'm giving her judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u447	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u448	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-27-tweedekamer-33.u449	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister, I thank the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery, the people who have followed this debate in a different way and the staff.
