ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u1	We begin, as usual on Tuesday afternoon, with oral Question Time. The first question is from Mrs Kröger, on behalf of GroenLinks, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Water State, whom I would also like to welcome. The question concerns the message that the Minister must put an end to the tolerated situation at Schiphol. I call Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The minister had one priority when she started six months ago: restoring confidence. Residents around airports throughout the Netherlands, from Schiphol, Rotterdam and Maastricht to Lelystad Airport, are the victims of unclear agreements, tolerant constructions and a sector that just wants to expand. The size is full! The broadcast of EenVandaag last Saturday showed that residents are empty-handed when they ask to maintain the Inspection Environment and Transport. In the case of Schiphol there is anticipating maintenance. This means, in practice, that there is no maintenance. At Rotterdam, the agreements on the number of night flights are not laid down by law. The ILT indicates that it cannot therefore maintain. This legal vacuum is detrimental to trust in the government. I have the following questions. What is the Minister going to do in concrete terms to restore the trust of residents around airports? Does the Minister confirm this morning's statements by the ILT in the Volkskrant that there can be no enforcement at the moment? Or can it be maintained, but has the ILT simply not been commissioned by the Minister, which directly covers it? The starting point was always the equivalent level of protection of the old and new systems. How has the equivalence been assessed if there has not been and is not yet a new environmental impact assessment? Can the Minister put an end to the legal vacuum of Schiphol, until the new Schiphol standards and enforcement system is legally established, by enforcing the old laws and regulations, and what is needed for this? What concrete steps will the Minister take in the very short term to ensure that the agreements on night flights at Rotterdam are maintained? I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the latter: the supervision at Rotterdam The Hague Airport. It was specifically about the number of night flights. I think I can give a very clear answer to that. The airport's operating area is maintained by the ILT. No exceedances of the defined operating area were observed in 2017. Among other things, a number of 849 night flights were used for large commercial trade. In 2009, administrative arrangements were made to take this number as the target figure. That was with Minister Eurlings at the time. Over 849 night flights have taken place at Rotterdam The Hague Airport in recent years. Mrs Kröger is right about that. But this increase is entirely due to the nocturnal use of the trauma helicopter that has been allowed to fly at Rotterdam The Hague Airport since 2011. We agree very quickly, I think, that trauma traffic has a great social function and that there should always be room for that. This is in general the answer to the story of the night flights at Rotterdam The Hague Airport. Then the surveillance around Schiphol. The aim of the new Schiphol standards and enforcement system is precisely to reduce the noise pollution caused by aircraft by residents than by the old system. That is also why, in most cases, the Chamber has agreed to the law that laid down the new standard and enforcement system for Schiphol. So this has been laid down in the law and it was then chosen to continue flying under the new system after the experimental period that we have also had with the new Schiphol standards and enforcement system, while the regulatory process is thus still going through the ministerial regime. As you know, I am legally anchoring this system in the Airport Traffic Decision Schiphol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u5	I thank the Minister for the answers. I note, however, that she does not answer a large number of questions. She should realize that what she's saying now is really not enough to restore the trust of residents. So my question to the Minister remains whether she acknowledges that there is currently a legal vacuum for residents of Schiphol, but also for residents of Rotterdam, where they are much more inconvenienced because there is a systematic deviation from the routes. Does she recognize that there's a legal vacuum? And how does she explain that the ILT lets residents know that nothing can be done with their complaints?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u6	It's very difficult to answer a lot of questions in two minutes. It's easier to ask a lot of questions than to give answers. I'll make an effort to get a little further up here. With regard to Rotterdam The Hague Airport, everything is done within the provided operating space. Again, the increase in night flights involves trauma helicopters. There is little more to be said about this. Then one more time back to the ILT. They are, of course, currently using the existing noise limit values as agreed. You also know that we still need to go through a number of steps to integrate the new system into the ministerial regime. For example, we need the E.R. of Schiphol. We're just sitting here waiting for that to happen. I hope that the parties working on it will conclude this as soon as possible. After that, of course, it will also depend on you in the Chamber to go through the rest of the procedure as soon as possible. I am committed to capturing it as soon as possible. As a result of the VAO, I recently promised to explain in a letter once again exactly what the enforcement and monitoring protocol looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u7	I do not know how the Minister looks at statements made by the ILT in de Volkskrant this morning, in which they state that what the One-Today item describes on Saturday is true: it cannot be maintained at the moment; it can only be monitored. This is also confirmed by residents who submit an enforcement request and who are told that there can be no enforcement. The Minister states that this legal vacuum will continue until the new system of standards and enforcement is legally established and thus until the EIA is there, but that may take some time. I would therefore very much like to hear from the Minister how the legal vacuum will be dealt with in the coming period and what the Minister is going to do in concrete terms to ensure that the rights of residents can be enforced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u8	Again, the anticipation of maintaining provides that all the movements that are made are looked at, with the associated sound. It will then be examined whether or not this is permitted under the system and whether or not you are also in breach of the new system. If the new system is not in place, i.e. the correct use is made of less nuisance jobs, then it is permissible. It is therefore intended to reduce nuisance. And that is why in the past this law with this system, which has also been experimented with, has been widely adopted in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u9	The Minister now explains how it is meant to be. In my view, we are not talking about how the new system of standards and enforcement is intended, but about a situation in which the old law applies and where an exception can be made to the law if it is in line with the new system of standards and enforcement. But the ILT, the party that has to maintain, says: we can't, we can only monitor. We want to hear very clearly from the Minister, as the final manager of the ILT, how we can now maintain around Schiphol. Or does the Minister actually say: it is true, there can be no maintenance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u10	I thought I made it clear. Anticipating enforcement is maintained. That means you're putting the two systems next to each other. The new system of standards and enforcement provides for less nuisance. So if it complies with those rules, there will be no interference. If you went back to the old system, you would throw away the whole law and the system of standards and enforcement. You'd have to go through a very separate procedure for that. In general, it means that the nuisance will increase. Because then there will be more use of other jobs, from which there will be more nuisance. The preferred use of jobs is something that has been chosen very deliberately Chamberwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u11	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u12	I would very much like to receive a letter from the Minister explaining the current enforcement policy and specifically addressing the ILT's ruling that offences are currently monitored only and specifically on how the fourth law is currently enforced. How is it taking place right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u13	I had actually promised that letter to the Chamber, but I would like to add this specific point on the basis of the last article and the ILT. You can expect that letter in April, before the Mayaces.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u14	Thank you to the Minister for all the answers, but it is a situation with a great deal of uncertainty. There is, on the one hand, a maximum of night flights that are exceeded by a trauma helicopter and, on the other hand, there is no new regulation in which it is no longer exceeded. On the one hand, there is the new system of standards and enforcement. On the other hand, this has long been out of the experimental phase, but not yet enshrined in the law, so the ILT does not maintain it. On the one hand, there is a standard at Schiphol Airport for the number of deviations from the routes, but again not at another airport where they see much more overruns or deviations from routes, which makes people hear aircraft over their heads. Does the Minister agree with us that there is a great deal of uncertainty, that no one can benefit from it, that airlines are not, that there are residents, and that it is now even leading to a trial? Does the Minister agree with us that if the ILT wants to maintain and says that it cannot do so because it has not been given the instruments, then we must deliver them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u15	I very much agree with Mr Paternotte. We must, of course, provide these instruments. That's the ministerial arrangement. So we need an E.R. of Schiphol and then the procedure, including here in the Chamber. I think we'll all be there to make that happen very quickly. For example, Mr Paternotte talks about night flights at Rotterdam The Hague Airport. There's no ambiguity there. That's where they're gonna keep it. It falls within the current laws and regulations and within the sound room. There are additional flights of trauma helicopters. Yes, of course they also make noise, but I cannot imagine that the Chamber would want no more trauma flights.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u16	I hear the Minister talking mainly about the old system, new standards and ministerial arrangements. The ILT simply indicates that they cannot maintain. Is the minister here saying that the ILT is bullshit and they can maintain it? They say so themselves. I find it quite amazing that the Minister is saying this now, because the ILT itself indicates it. My question is about the preferred use of jobs, about the Kaagbaan and the Polderbaan. They would be most commonly used, because they cause the least nuisance. Now, in practice, it turns out that they cannot cope with growth and a lot of it goes over the Aalsmeer job. This is accompanied by a lot of nuisance in Aalsmeer and Uithoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u17	And what's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u18	What's the Minister gonna do about it? How are we going to reduce it? That is my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u19	We've agreed to this preferred use of jobs. Of course, you can't always make it 100%. At the moment, asphalt is being replaced from one of the runways. Then you can't use it. Then you have a different situation and you have to use other jobs elsewhere. That's inevitable. Furthermore, it is always up to LVNL to see how the security situation is at a certain point in time. We are also dealing with special wind conditions that can all have an impact. We've agreed on good rules on this. I will come back to the beginning of your question: how can the ILT say that they cannot maintain? Formally, they cannot maintain them until NNHS, the new system of standards and enforcement, is established in that ministerial regime. The law that's underneath it has been widely passed in the Chamber, so everyone wants this. That's what we're doing. That is what we need the environmental impact assessment for and the treatment, hopefully, in your Chamber. Then, according to that system, really can be maintained instead of anticipating, what they are doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u20	I have two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u21	In 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u22	I have a question about 'formally unable to maintain'. What exactly does that mean? My second question is whether the Minister agrees with us that it is precisely the fact that everything is happening in Rotterdam under the law, but there is a great deal of nuisance, which is felt as well, that he is in the definition of trade, which General Aviation does not fall into and that you get the situation that you have a lot of nuisance from the aircraft and from the trauma helicopters? So the final question that comes with it is indeed that if trauma helicopters have to fly and they have to fly, it must be at the expense of the night flights.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u23	Yes, but now Mr Van Raan is actually proposing a whole new system. We have a deal with each other on how we deal with this. I know that you have a desire to deal with a definition of trade and general aviation, the rest of the air traffic. I'm dealing with the situation as it is. That doesn't include trauma helicopters. And again, the increase in the number of night flights is simply due to the fact that since 2011 trauma helicopters have been allowed to fly there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u24	A second supplementary question, Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u25	Well, I'd like another explanation of the bizarre that you apparently have something like formally maintaining and that you can't. That's actually twice an insult, because you have formal enforcement and you can't. I do not know if the Minister realizes how strange that sounds and is, and that she is really the only one who is apparently thinking of regaining the confidence of residents. Again, I don't want a new system discussion, far from it, but it's still weird that when you see an airplane moving in the air, you can obviously ask yourself: oh, is it general aviation or is it trade?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u26	Mr Van Raan is proposing it all in his own way, as if we could all choose freely. But just at the point where you were also talking about at the beginning, the difference between maintaining and maintaining anticipating. You then use the term "formal enforcement." If there is an established law with effect underneath, then of course you can formally enforce it. We agreed with each other in the Chamber on the basis of the law that there would be anticipating maintenance because this would reduce noise pollution for people. So that's why it was chosen: ILT, look at the new system, with improvements that go with it. If it does fit in there, then you don't have to maintain it, because if you did, then we shouldn't have the whole system of standards and enforcement again, and we should have just left everything at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u27	I think we're all trying to regain the trust of the residents. We make agreements on the number of flights, and we should be able to maintain them formally in the end. I think we're all now concluding that we can't do that right now. So I think it is important that the Minister also points out, in her letter of last week and also in the EenVandaag broadcast, in a written response that there will be an environmental impact assessment Schiphol. This is important if new agreements are to be reached again and to be able to maintain them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u28	So much for the summary, now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u29	I'd be happy to. My question is as follows. There seems to be some kind of curse on this environmental impact assessment, because this report is being postponed again. What exactly is the reason for this delay in reporting?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u30	We are not the initiators of this. That's Schiphol. What we understood from Schiphol is that the agencies working for them also had to carry out other activities, including the Lelystad Airport Environmental Impact Assessment, and that they were delayed. But I do hope that they will come up with this environmental impact assessment as soon as possible, because you are absolutely right: once we have it, we can also speed up the process of officially maintaining the system as we want it with each other, which we have already established, which leads to less nuisance, rather than anticipating it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u31	In the answer I hear that everyone wants it quickly. What I also sense when I put my ear to my ears is that there is support for fast recording so that you can indeed give that clarity to everyone. But what can the House of Representatives do to speed up this process?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u32	At the moment, therefore, we are just as dependent on the fact that this environmental impact assessment is coming from Schiphol, but of course you would be doing us all a great favor if we were to be able to deal with this whole matter in the Chamber with the greatest possible speed. We will certainly do our best from the Ministry to do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u33	It is clear that, in reply to my colleague, Mr Laçin, the Minister now admits that there is no formal enforcement and that we are therefore in a legal vacuum. My question is, in fact, what the Minister says to residents around the Aalsmeerbaan, who have structural problems because the fourth runway rule is not being implemented and is not being enforced. What does the Minister say to these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u34	We have agreed in this house that the new system of standards and enforcement is better for people, because it leads to less nuisance. We're all working on getting it in as soon as possible. I think it is good for all those people that in the meantime the ILT takes this into account with anticipation and does not fall back on an old system over which everyone was dissatisfied and which led to more nuisance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-tweedekamer-2.u35	Thank you.
