ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the debate on the Work in Health Action Programme. There are no less than three directors among us: Minister De Jonge of VWS, Minister Bruins for Medical Care and Secretary of State Blokhuis of VWS. We have agreed a speaking time of eight minutes per group. In view of the clock, I would ask colleagues to look a little bit at the need for interruptions in the first period. I give as the first speaker on the side of the Chamber... Oh, dear. I would like to give Mrs Agema an opportunity to make a comment now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. We have all night for this debate. Three directors have been invited and we have eight minutes to speak. This is really the biggest debate on this year's concern, alongside the budget. So I don't know why we should be reluctant in advance with the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u3	It was a call from the chairman. I give every opportunity to debate with each other and with the rulers. I am the first speaker from the Chamber to give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Care's about to explode. We are faced with an immense task. By the end of 2022, 190,000 additional employees must have been recruited and already in so many places the water is up to the lips. Care is human work. 1.2 million pairs of hands move a lot of work every day; professional, integrity and love. But a shortage this big beats holes. Every day we read alarming reports about the deficits that are already there. These shortages don't come as thunder in the clear sky. They were predicted years ago. Despite this, the previous cabinet took violent measures, which resulted in an additional 77.000 people being dismissed. But don't worry, this cabinet has the solution. Happy Shoes come to solve this huge problem, or rather: Magic Shoes. According to Minister De Jonge, with his action plan Working in Health, which we are discussing today, the deficit should be completely gone by 2022. The Minister and the Secretary of State come up with eight points of action which the Central Planning Bureau considers to be unaccountable. But Magic Shoes have some nerve, though. If only former Secretary of State Van Rijn had a pair of magic shoes. If only he had beaten the judgment of the Central Planning Bureau. Our country would have been spared a lot of suffering. However, the risk of magic shoes is that you will be left empty-handed if your plans prove to be unfeasible or far too rosy. You can't do that. If the deficits are not quickly overcome, care will implode. Because what do these deficits lead to? That someone who is almost blind and still lives at home is not getting any groceries at the summer stop. That family members have to take care of a dying one in the last few days at home. That sad situations in nursing homes, like no time to help with food or chat or shower, become commonplace. Recently, residents of a Helmond nursing home had to be transferred to another location because of a shortage. Deficiencies mean that the safety of employees in the ggz is already at stake, that the clinic for psychiatry in Geldrop had to close and that Pro Persona had to close the acute admission. Thanks to overloaded general practitioners, the closure of general practitioners is already at risk. Already, wards and operating rooms of hospitals have to close down. Patients should already consider non-continuing surgeries. LUMC employees have even started an action with job placement beds, to show how severe the shortage is. The ambulance staff is also taking action and the childcare sector is suffering from shortages. So what is needed is plans that work, that are feasible, that are hard and no nice talk for the stage. It is nice that the Central Planning Bureau writes that eight action points are still numerically correct, but for the rest they could not do anything with it. None of the action points could be calculated and the analysis of the CPB therefore has seven pages, of which three annexes. The first action line may seem to be still in progress: increasing the number of side-intromers and re-enterers by 20%, which should generate no less than 30,000 jobs. But with career interviews (25,000) you're not here. You may have the intention of getting people close to the labour market in sight, but how many times has that been tried? This estimate is far too high. The second point of action: increasing the average return on training by 10%, which should create 15,000 jobs, is also very sympathetic, but with an influx rising by a few percent, you are not yet there. Why do I hear that girls with a VMBO degree in their pockets aren't admitted to MBO care training? Can the Minister investigate whether this can be made possible, all the more so because even status holders are being picked off the streets to work in the care sector? The third action line: extending the contract size by one hour seems to be good for 20,000 jobs. This plan caused a lot of laughter in the planning department of a nursing home where we were recently visiting. Research also shows that one in ten employees already do this and half reluctantly. They do it because they care about the residents. Here is an everlasting conflict between employer and employee: peak hours, while increasing the quality and time for residents in the nursing homes must be found precisely at that intermediate time. The number of 20,000 seems completely unfeasible. According to FNV, the counter is stuck at 10,000. Action line 4 should be more targeted through task redeployment and job-carving staff. This, too, must create 20,000 jobs. A lot of employees aren't happy about this. Higher-educated people too often only deal with reserved actions. That's physically too heavy, and they're missing human contact. Grass mowing with residents who love gardening could be a great variety. If the number is right, you shouldn't want this. Action 5 is perhaps the most beautiful: reducing the administrative burden by one hour per week. That should also create 20,000 jobs. But with the Action Plan (Ont) Rule of Care, only the low-hanging fruit is picked. With 1x1 instead of two forms, you're not here. There is no beginning to abolish the large bulk rules, such as the indication circus. We understand the desire of Action Line 6: reducing absenteeism to the average of the entire economy. This should create 6,000 jobs, but here too the question arises: how? Because of the physical burden, care will always remain a heavier sector than average. This number also seems to be far too high. Action point 7 is about increasing labour productivity by 1% per year through labour-saving technology and is listed for as many as 25,000 jobs. Everyone sees benefits in the use of tablets and the like for a better organisation of care, but we also know many examples of failed labor-saving technology. In particular, it should be borne in mind that the work in care is largely general daily life operations, such as washing, showering, dressing, combing hair, wound care, the application of infusions for medicines or the equally good laying down of the patient. And technology can never or never take over that. Here too, the number has been overestimated. Finally, Action Point 8, reducing the sector's outflow by 10%. That should create 17,500 jobs. This number is not achieved with support in career choices. This number too is exaggerated. Because the Central Planning Office didn't see anything in it, as a Chamber we only had a note drawn up. I can tell you that our staff couldn't make a difference either. Also we don't see a beginning of the solution for the zzp-hype in healthcare. More and more graduates start for themselves, at a rate of €40 per hour. In a high-level labour market, they can ask this, and say wrong! The reverse is that this hype swallows up an increasingly large part of the budget, which means that there will be no money left to pay the promised extra staff their salary. How's the Minister gonna do this? Anyway, we have to keep going. I'd say do me a couple of those witch shoes, size 37. I know what to do with it. I am glad that the Minister, as one of his lines of action, also calls it working differently, as I already described in my book Silvering from 2015. Billions and billions in care are wasted or stuck in overhead. The unnamed pink elephant in the room is the sad fact that an HBO in the care department gets 45 gross €700 per month less than a teacher in primary education. Beat the billions out of care and spend it on more staff and more salary. I am talking, for example, about our overhead plan, which we presented in 2006, which allows almost 28,000 managers to move back to the workplace on a voluntary basis, while retaining their salary. But also pull the billions out of caring for more staff and more salary with that different working, as the pioneers have already proven. Take on big bourgeois rules, waste, fraud, scaling up, purchasing costs and e.g. constructions. Finally, on Action Line 8. In 2017, more than 80,000 people left care. All plans are pointless when so many people are pouring out every year. You're not here to offer career interviews or a free workshop. It is good that in many regions the reasons for the outflow are analysed. When can we receive a national image? I thank the Chamber for allowing me to explain over the last eight minutes why the action plan of ministers and the Secretary of State is far too bright, and that you cannot do that in a sector that simply fails if promises are not fulfilled and if deficits are not reduced to zero by 2020. Of course, the growing economy will help them, but if you accept such a presentation, you, the Chamber, will be responsible for the disaster that is taking place. Then it's your fault that thousands of people living at home with the visually impaired are out of groceries in the summer, people can't die at home, operating rooms are closed, GPs are closed and ambulances stopped pulling out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u5	Thank you, Mrs Agema. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Bergkamp of D66. Mrs Bergkamp, you too have eight minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u6	Very well, thank you. Mr. Chairman. Of all the action programmes, pacts and change agendas that these ministers have launched, the Health Care Work Programme is the most important, because good care, whether nursing care, disability care, ggz or hospital care, can only be achieved by well-trained, professional and valued healthcare professionals. Without them, all other programmes, pacts and agreements are useless. I would therefore like to begin by expressing my appreciation for everyone who contributes every day to the personalised and excellent care we have in the Netherlands. So we are discussing this today, and I think that Mrs Agema also meant that the greatest challenge of this cabinet. Witnessing the presence in trade-K of three directors, the cabinet seems to agree. There is a wide programme, but we still have some questions and comments on this and some concerns. Mr. Chairman. "The focus of the approach lies in the region," the action programme states. In each region there is now a Regional Action Plan Approach Deficiencies: RAAT. But almost no RAAT has a professional at the table. "Nothing about us without us." The Minister for Health also indicated today that when it comes to the elderly and the Council of Elders, it is precisely his ambition to talk to people rather than people. That is why I find it strange that there are no professionals at the table. This is very important because these action plans are also constantly evolving. Is the Minister prepared to ensure that in each region the professional himself is at the table for the RAAT? I mean explicitly in the advisory and decision-making role and not in the role of elaboration. I'd like a commitment from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In 2008, my colleague Pia Dijkstra was chairman of the DeeltijdPlus Task Force. I happened to be there once when she was president; so you can see how lines get back together in this Chamber. She was already working on that part-time factor. For the laymen among us: when an average contract is for 36 hours and the standard according to the collective agreement is 36 hours, the part-time factor is 1 in the sector. When this task force started work, the part-time factor in the health and well-being sector was on average 0.73. Ten years later, the latest figures show us that this average has not risen: it is still 0.73. Of course, I understand the people who want to work part-time in healthcare. They often combine their work with, for example, care for the children. That's totally fine, of course. But there's a group that wants to work more hours, but doesn't get extra hours. I agree with Mrs Agema: of course, it is not about forcing people to work more. The point is that there's a group of people who consciously say they want to work more hours, but they don't get hours. What concrete action will the Minister take, possibly in cooperation with Minister Koolmees, to ensure that those who want to work more hours can also work more hours? That would be a simple, concrete solution. Mr. Chairman. The need is particularly high in the care of the elderly. Despite beautiful campaigns by the ambassadors, people choose less quickly to work in this sector. As a nurse told me, it doesn't help that the picture of care for the elderly is that nurses spend all day putting on support stockings or that we're talking about "hands on the bed." Nurses are so much more than that. Also, the limited career opportunities in care for the elderly do not help, especially if you compare them with the possibilities in hospital care. In an earlier debate, I also called for attention to be paid to this. The Minister said he would come back to that in the action programme, but it is a great deal of information, I could not find it in that. I would like to hear from the Minister what opportunity he sees for that. Mr. Chairman. It doesn't help either if we tell people who have been working in healthcare their whole lives, actually at HBO level, that they may be at a lower level after all. I find the whole discussion about the in-service nurses very annoying, also because they have been waiting so long for a piece of clarity. A report has been issued. Maybe that wasn't quite crystal clear. A new committee is now going to look at it, but I hope that the directors can say today that people will be clear before 1 January 2019, so that they know where they stand. I would also like to say that these people feel very much appreciated. Mr. Chairman. At the moment, we are looking at major staff shortages in healthcare, but care is constantly changing due to demographic, technological and certainly social developments. The care of 2040 is not the concern of 2020, not even in terms of composition. The ROA, the Research Centre for Education and Labour Market of the University of Maastricht, already makes biennial forecasts for care in five years' time. Will the Minister also look at the various sectors in these forecasts? 'Cause it's one big pile of information now. We would find it interesting and important to divide this by sub-sector and also to look at the labour market for future care. Are the rulers willing to ask an institution to really look to the future? What does the future look like, in view of all developments? What about the links with education, demographics and technical developments? So I have two questions. Can the ROA, which is already carrying out this research, look at the different aspects, sub-sectors? That will provide more information. My second question is: can there be another study, which should not of course be superfluous, because there is already a sufficient number of studies to look to the future? Because I notice that the plans end in this cabinet period, and I don't think that's a good thing. I think it's good to anticipate the future. Mr. Chairman. In the run-up to this debate, I placed a call for professionals. I asked them whether they actually noticed any of the actions that have already been undertaken in the previous cabinet and whether they had any ideas. I got a lot of reactions, ranging from a mother who, due to the staff shortages, can no longer get pgb for her son to the situation where providers under the guise of "who offers the most?" In a nasty way, competing with each other to get staff. In fact, it was summarized in the remark 'I find it the most disturbing that the concern is messed up'. Of course, that's all we don't want to do with each other. My conclusion is quite frankly, looking at the action programme, which is too wide a gap between the action programme and the reality of those who carry out the work. The concerns that live are not taken away by the program. In fact, I notice in people's reactions in my own poll, let's just say that people don't notice much of it at the moment. Sometimes they see new colleagues, but they do not meet the expectations or the requirements, which also increases the workload for the people who work there. And we're gonna do it for them eventually.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u7	I have also scanned the reactions that Mrs Bergkamp has called for. My impression is not at all that the most important news now is that the care is confused. The common thread of all these reactions is a point that Mrs Bergkamp has not yet made. Maybe you will. These are the structural problems that all health care providers are now seeing: too high workload, too low salary, too few colleagues. That is the red council in all the reactions Mrs Bergkamp has received. So these people aren't confused, people are pissed off about the huge deficits out there and the lack of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u8	I'm very happy that my tweets are well studied by the SP. I would like to tell the SP that I also received a lot of e-mails and of course distilled my information from them. The remark that care is confused did not refer to employees who would be confused. But everything we've organized around it causes people to say, "What are we supposed to do?" We have to give loving care, there will be a quality framework, there will be many different demands. In addition, there are often demands that the organisation itself makes. So that's what I meant by the remark: the concern is confused. I agree with the SP that the workload is high. Hopefully, that's what my story tells me. I say that it is the greatest challenge for the cabinet to tackle these problems in the labour market. What else does the SP want?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u9	It seems crystal clear what the SP wants. We must ensure that more money is made available so that the salaries in the care sector can finally be raised. Mrs Agema has rightly just said that. I can't hear you about that. I do not hear you talking about lowering the workload. Yeah, you say it's a problem. But the solutions put forward by D66 are about more policy tables, about more research. There's no need for more research. We simply need to listen to what is being said in the workplace. Why is there a lack of colleagues? Because wages are too low. Why is the workload so high? Because everyone who is looking at the nursing homes now thinks: well, I wonder again if I am going to work there, because the workload is enormous and I can earn both more and less hard work in another sector. That is the problem we need to address.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u10	I'm so sorry. We have a serious debate here, and then my story is summarized in a way by the SP. Of course, that's nice for the stage. But I've just indicated that it's the biggest challenge for this cabinet to fill those vacancies. I point to the end of this cabinet, which I do not mean predictively. This cabinet has spent more money than any cabinet has ever done. It's about 16 billion more spent. And a large part of that amount is spent on price and wage developments. So, frankly, I'd like to send a signal to the SP as well. It is certainly a great challenge, but let's see what we can achieve today as a Chamber to take that step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u11	Mr. Hijink, very short and final.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u12	I hear from Mrs Bergkamp exactly what I read in the government's letters. That is a lot of information, a lot of fuzzy language, but it goes past the crucial point. That is that caregivers only have one wish: go and reward us fairly, so that our sector also becomes attractive. I still do not hear about this, which is the crux of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u13	The crux is sure that there are a lot of vacancies and that the workload has to be reduced. But unlike the SP, we do not feel that we are at the table in the negotiations. Several collective agreements have now been concluded, with a 4% increase in nursing, care and home help. There's no collective agreement for the umc's yet. It's gonna have to be there real soon. It is true, and I share that with the SP Committee, that in the situation of the crisis where we come out, wage developments are not really something to be pleased about. That is why I am very pleased that new collective agreements have been concluded with an increase. I agree that the workload needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u14	I've read those comments, too. It was an impressive amount. Especially anger and anger came out of it. Someone who's finished with the pabo gets $700 gross per month more than an HBO nurse. That's an extremely big hole. And then Mrs Bergkamp says here: yes, but there is 4% added to the collective agreements. That's a dime! Do you know that with that 4% on the salary before the crisis? Then where's the extra salary?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u15	It's very annoying, but I'm actually giving you the same reaction as the SP. I agree with you when it comes to internship fees. In my opinion, we have even asked questions about this together with the SP and we have said that we need an impetus there. But we are not at the table as a political party. It is up to employers and employees to make these agreements. There is also an increase in the irregularity payment. I agree with you that we come from a time of crisis, in which we have invested little in it. That is why I am pleased that new collective agreements have been concluded with an increase. Is that enough? What I got back, not only from the tweets but also from the e-mails, is that most people said: we want more appreciation for our work and we want less red tape, leaving us time. That's two red wires in the e-mails I got. The third point is: let me close, President......................................................................................................................................................... That's what I'm really worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u16	They certainly don't notice that, because when those Agemaalden were added to the macrobudget for the nursing homes in 2012, it was D66 that immediately removed it with the Kunduz chord. That's why they never notice. But isn't it crazy that someone who just got off the pabo and someone who just did HBO nursing has a difference in starting salary of €700 gross a month? Then how do you want to make people extra warm for care?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u17	What also plays is the whole image of care for the elderly. That is quite separate from the fact that Mrs Agema certainly has a point when she says that we come from a time of little space. We're going to invest more now. But it is also the image of care for the elderly, which makes people say: do me a good job in a hospital, because I also have more career opportunities there compared to care for the elderly. So I think, therefore, that it is also very important that we give more positive attention to care, so that this sector also becomes more attractive to work in. Can we solve all the problems with that? No. But it would be nice if we were to join hands today and really take some nice steps together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u18	Short, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u19	But the cabinet isn't going to invest in care anymore. Those Agemaalten were still extra money, but in this coalition agreement the pluses and the lovers cancel each other out. The only budget that is growing is the large macro budget for care, which is based on wage and price increases. In the previous period, we have seen that it disappears like snow for the sun, because every year billions and billions of windfalls are taken in, which ultimately pays for mass immigration and a ban on gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u20	I'm trying to look at the Millions Note for purity from my party and from the discussion. 16 billion extra. That's a lot of money. I do agree with Mrs Agema that this should be used and used properly. If we're gonna get our hands together to take that line pressure for once, that would be worth a lot to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u21	There is also an interruption by Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u22	I'm going to go on about the rewards of the people in the care and the workload. From the documents sent by the cabinet and also from investigations it appears that these are two very important things that keep people away from care now, or who cooperate in the departure of people from care. From the poll we have held, the poll on the Facebook page of Zorg in action, those two points are also the most pregnant. Do you not think it is unsatisfactory that there is so little about the action plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u23	The previous cabinet, of PvdA and VVD, has also started a lot. Let us be clear: the ink of this action programme is just dry. What I do find disappointing is that, during the previous cabinet period, people saw very little of it in practice. My appeal is: how can we ensure that abstract policy reality descends into people and that people actually notice the nurses, the nurses, the caregivers, the home helpers, the people in ggz and youth care, the people in the hospital, the pediatricians, that there are more colleagues coming in, that the workload is decreasing and that there are more career opportunities? That would indeed be my goal, but I am also certainly disappointed that people notice so little of what the previous cabinet has put in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u24	Quite apart from the fact that the decisions of the previous cabinet on this point, when it came to voting, always had the support of D66, my specific question was simply: do you not think that now, in this cabinet period, when there is an action plan, it is disappointing that the two main points are not or are not to be met when you ask the people themselves, namely the reward and the handling of the workload? Would it be a good thing for you if we could all get a little more emphasis from the Chamber on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u25	I'm repeating myself a little bit. I am disappointed that in the previous cabinet period, together with the Christian Union and the SGP, we had to do so in order to reduce a number of cuts. We have joined forces and tried to make it more realistic and social. I honestly think the damage would have been bigger. Now we have had a realistic policy. But I think I said myself that we should work together on the pressure of work, the motivation of people and the image of care. I think that was my plea, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u26	Very briefly in conclusion. It is good that Mrs Bergkamp says that D66 has made agreements with the previous cabinet and has full responsibility for this. I just keep not getting an answer to my question: will we all make sure that something more happens than dealing with the workload and the reward?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u27	It sounds really nice to ask the same questions every time, but my reaction is the same. Of course, I think this is the greatest challenge and I really hope that this new cabinet can actually ensure that people in the workplace notice that there are more colleagues, that the workload is reduced and that, among other things, care for the elderly is looked at positively. In my opinion, that is what this cabinet wants and what I certainly want to embrace. I still have the need to put it into practice and to ensure that the gap between the policy language and reality is reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u28	Thank you. Mrs Agema has another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u29	I hear Mrs Bergkamp talking about fewer rules. Of course, that has been the heart cry of the whole Chamber for so many years. But we see that the only result so far is that, when it comes to caring for illegal immigrants, two forms have been made up of one form. That's what it's concrete about. But when it comes to the big bulk... When it comes to the whole indication circus for all those people in those nursing homes. When it comes to working for one price with one lead time. Then the minister doesn't give home. Then D66 doesn't give home. The big fruits are not picked. That hour of administrative burdens off everyone wants so badly. But it's not gonna work if all the ideas that live there are shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u30	If there are any good ideas to abolish the rule print, I will, of course, look at it. I believe that we in the Chamber have also said, for example, that the district nurse himself is going to dictate and decides what is needed. I'm very happy about that. I think that's a huge profit. Looking at what we're proposing, I'm also concerned about governance. Look at the letter, page 23 or 24, which says what we are trying to put into the market to show results. Then I'm thinking, "Oh, my God, we're putting up a lot of stuff." But if there are good ideas to deal with the regulatory burden, I think that we in the Chamber should certainly look at that. It is persistent, because I also notice that people do not notice enough of it in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u31	That is a small opening, because we have, of course, been pushing for years towards self-indication for those district nurses. But that is not the administrative burden! That depends on what comes next: that continuous message traffic; you have to constantly answer for it; constantly make plans. One product for one price with one lead time: it does not come from the ground. And the same goes for that indication circus. And these nursing homes: before someone's inside, 94 A4s have already been filled in and then they have to start a new indication trail every six weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u32	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u33	It's driving them crazy. Also when it comes to the multiple disabled: there are highly educated people who are just trying to apply for indications! It has to go away, it has to be abolished. And please, come over like D66 sometime. You support the coalition, you're in the coalition. Please join us, because it's about the big bureaucratic rules. They should finally disappear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u34	I hear and feel Mrs Agema's sincerity in her speech and I fully share it. We can share things here, but I also want to achieve things. And that is why we have said: why does a person with a multiple severely handicapped child have to repeat what the handicap is every time? We've asked written questions about it. We have even tabled a motion, and this cabinet must go through with it. That's where Mrs. Agema will find me by her side. We fought together in the Chamber for that district professional, that district nurse, to indicate too, and that there is no need to use a completely different accountability circus anymore. I would like to add that institutions themselves have a responsibility in this, because a lot of the regulatory burden comes from the institution itself, because there is also the need to justify and so on. But I am also afraid that all the programmes that we are now about to discuss with each other will also create additional workload and regulatory pressure. That's where you'll find me by your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u35	I would like to return to Mrs Bergkamp's problem analysis, which I share for a very large part. The image is extremely important and the workload is a problem, but I have not yet heard from Mrs Bergkamp about the specific aspect of the remuneration. I agree with the other points made by Mrs Bergkamp. At the same time, we see that this remuneration is still relatively low, even compared to other professions in the public sector. Does Mrs Bergkamp also see this as one of the points that requires special attention, including from this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u36	I think I was talking about pay and salary in an interruption with the SP and also indirectly in an interruption with the PvdA. I was just saying, I think we've come a long way. The moment there was a crisis, there was too little investment. Fortunately, new collective agreements have now been concluded. The umc is still on the table, and I hope that it will come out with a good collective agreement. Fortunately, there is another increase in collective agreements, but again: we are not at the table as political parties. A collective agreement is really something that employers and employees have to conclude with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u37	Fortunately, we are seeing an increase and, fortunately, the collective agreements are being adjusted a little positively. At the same time, salaries are still lower than for many other jobs, jobs that these people can choose for. The social partners certainly have a great deal to do, but at the same time the urgency is so great at the moment and it is so difficult to really solve these problems that we, as a government, also need to see if we can do anything more about it. That is also what we have to do when it comes to the reward of these people, who we need so much and who we need to cross the line in order to choose this beautiful subject as well. So, yes, the social partners are on the move. However, I would like to ask Mrs Bergkamp: is it desirable, given the urgency of the problem we are dealing with, that the government also look at what more it can do when it comes to remuneration?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u38	I also think it is important to pay attention to the things that we do influence. What I'm worried about is the big outflow. We attract people, they come in and then they flow with a lot of weather. Why is this such a difficult subject? Let us also discuss this with each other in all honesty. I have been director for many years and I know that someone's motivation has a lot to do with how employees are treated in such an organisation. Is there a transparent, fine, valued culture? For example, I got a reaction from a nurse who said... No, it was a home help. He said: "My director came back from vacation and went to discuss in detail how nice that holiday had been. He had detoxed and was completely relaxed. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, But he had no regard for the fact that those homeworkers had to fill the whole roster with each other, including the holes in it. If you don't have a feeling for what's going on on the work floor, I think it's a terrible term, and for what's going on with nurses and caregivers, you get out. I believe that the greatest challenge is to stop this outflux, which is, of course, difficult to influence from a political point of view, but I hope that these leaders will give a signal to that effect today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u39	Thank you. Then you will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have just talked about the progress letter and, as far as I am concerned, the woolly language in it: 'the action-learning network is the power of action and organisation'. I'm afraid we're setting up a whole new governance together when I look at the organogram on page 23. How are we going to pay these directors for results? Who's responsible for what? How can we adjust? I find that very hard to see when I look at all these plans. Finally, I would like to pay attention to the ambassadors. The main challenge is the labour market issue in healthcare. There is a lot going on, but it can be even more concrete, with the priorities that I think we have also clearly shared with each other in the interruptions. Over the past few years, I have spoken with the ambassadors on several occasions from the point of view of care. They play an incredible role in the enthusiasm of people and also in promoting that new, professional work in healthcare. I am therefore pleased that they are explicitly included in the action programme. I would like to hear how they will be involved in the further implementation of everything that we are going to come up with today and on with each other in the next few years. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u41	Thank you. Then we'll go to the next speaker. That is Mr Hijink of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You will only be working in care and have followed the debates in this Chamber a little over the last ten years. For the past ten years, you have heard: there can actually be almost nothing; the money is up, there has to be savings, the zero line, nothing is possible. "You're too expensive," that's what carers have been told for years. And now, less than two years later, we are suddenly having a completely different discussion about where we are going to find the people to fill the empty areas of care. Mr. Chairman. It cannot be surprising that this yojo policy does not give a great deal of confidence to many people who work in care or who want to work in care, in the way in which politics has dealt with the labour market in care in recent years. We have a triple problem. In recent years, Mrs Agema has rightly said that many thousands, tens of thousands of healthcare workers have been fired. Because so many people have been fired, who were already badly needed at the time, and now even more, the workload has increased even further for the people who have been left behind. And because this workload is so high, it is now even harder to find new people to work in healthcare. A triple problem. Before we talk about how we are going to solve these problems, those staff shortages, I think it is good to realise that the problem we are discussing here is a political problem that has been caused in this Chamber and that has also been aggravated by various parties in this Chamber. Now we need those caregivers very much, but to get them to care, much remains to be done. We know the whims of politics. Now we're yelling, "you all have to go to health care," but there might be new cuts in the future. So I want to know from these ministers and the Secretary of State whether they can guarantee to anyone who is now considering going to work in health care that a job in health care also has a future. Can they guarantee that there will not be another wave of redundancies in the near future? Because that certainty needs people, if we are to be able to interest them in the care. Mr. Chairman. Under the responsibility of these ministers, there are a number of plans to attract more people to care. In his last letter, the Minister is cautiously optimistic about what is happening. For example, he writes that care employment has grown with 39 000 workers, but what does that figure actually say? Because "employment," that is, the possibility of work in the care sector. That could also be about job vacancies. Or does he say: this is about jobs, these are people who actually went to work in healthcare? I think we should have clearer figures on this. It has been said before: this minister excels in ambiguity, even now, when it comes to figures and responsibility. What exactly is he on? I think he should communicate clearly and make it clear what is meant. Even better than in the piles of paper we get from the Minister, we test the practice and ask how the policy has fallen in practice. Mrs Bergkamp has done very well. The results of her personal investigation have also been shared with the committee, and that is why we have all seen them. I am also very pleased that that has happened. The common thread of these reactions is a massive complaint about the large deficits, the high workload and the low salaries. Someone writes, I think that was on the Facebook page of Minister De Jonge himself: the policy makers in The Hague are foreign to the world, they think that if you say enough positive things, it will all work itself out. Another writes in response to Mrs Bergkamp that she has to work night shifts on her own for 75 people. Alone, by herself, night shifts! Precisely this kind of story shows the domino effect that others emphasise of increasing workload, high absenteeism and staff turnover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u43	Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just for the Acts. The tweets and responses that were forwarded were from one organization, namely Healthcare in Action. In addition, I received comments from a lot of other people, also via e-mail. I would just like to point out that it was one organisation or a knowledge network that collected this. It is good to indicate that there were reactions in a broader sense. These reactions were sent to the MPs, but it was much wider.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u45	Of which act. Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u46	For the moment we do not have access to Mrs Bergkamp's maibox, so we have not seen those other reactions. The rest were sent around. No thousand action programmes by this minister can solve the problems by themselves if this cabinet continues to look away from the fundamental problems that carers encounter every day. For them, it's hard work in care. It is a very nice profession and they are proud of it, but the bureaucracy is huge, the salaries are too low and the workload is too high. These are, of course, the problems that must be tackled first and foremost before we send piles of paper into the country. How can we lose 80,000 carers every year? 80,000! We are talking about a problem of 125,000 people in 2022. Every year, 80,000 people leave the healthcare sector. If you don't want to take that problem first, you can write plans until you weigh an ounce. Improve conditions, increase salaries, reduce workload. Let's start with that now. I would like to hear from the Minister how he looks at the competition currently taking place in some sectors. It has already been mentioned: the collective agreement VVT receives an increase of 4% in salary. But look at what happened at the umc's. They must do it with a poor 2.5% for the coming year. Of course, that's not exactly a fair distribution. I ask the Minister what he is going to do to prevent people from being turned against each other within the care. Then there's a whole different problem. 53% of caregivers of the elderly indicate that they suspect that they are unable to maintain their jobs until retirement. That's a much larger number than a few years ago. The fact that we're about to lose those people is, of course, a shame. We can learn so much from the 50-plussers in healthcare. Their experience and knowledge disappear if we don't keep these people for care. But then you have to keep people fit for care. For this we have a number of proposals which we will table by way of motion today. I hope the Cabinet will support them. Firstly, we want more generational arrangements, as some have already been concluded. A generation control is 80-90-100. People go to 80% of their hours and get 90% of their salary with 100% retirement. Young people take the vacant places. This way we can preserve the elderly for care. I would like to hear a response from the rulers to these plans. Are they prepared to conclude more of these arrangements? Then we will also have to lighten the work for the elderly in care. Give people who want to do so the opportunity to train and guide younger colleagues and interns. Clear hours for that. Don't let experience get lost, just pass it on. I'd like to hear from the Minister if he'd like to get to work on that. Until then, we have a third proposal to keep older workers involved in care. Is the Minister prepared to see if we can train older workers, if they want to, for administrative positions or management positions within care? That knife cuts both ways as far as we're concerned. In this way we can reduce the large number of managers, drivers without affinity with care and continue to bind people who have knowledge of and experience with care to care. That seems to us to be a win-win situation. Finally. It has already been said, also by Mrs Bergkamp, that the information provided by this minister, especially Minister De Jonge, is often a problem. That applies to the rates in the nursing homes. We have had the discussions on the social domain, and yet again we are dealing with a forest of information which virtually eliminates reality. It is almost impossible for us to see the real proposals through public relations. I think the Minister should be clear about that. Does the government itself still have an overview of the many different policies, action programmes, regional plans and quality impulses that he and his predecessors have put in place? I don't have that overview and I wonder if the cabinet does. Can the Minister explain very simply, simply in ordinary people's language, in which sectors are the biggest problems now, in which regions are the biggest problems now and what is he going to do very concretely to solve these problems? In particular, the Minister seems to be sticking to the one target of 125,000 extra people in 2022, but at the moment we cannot determine in any way whether that number is going to be met and whether, if there is any growth in additional staff, additional employees, that has anything to do with the proposals made by this minister. Of course you can't. We need to be able to check that properly. In fact, I would like to ask the same question as Mrs Bergkamp, who knows how we will be able to deal with the cabinet on all the plans it is currently making. Let him set concrete goals: this is what I want to do to help more elderly people get into work, this is what I want to do to attract more young people, and this is what I want to do to stop 80,000 people from progressing every year. Concrete objectives, concrete measures and therefore a concrete account which we will be able to make at the end of the journey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u47	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Kerstens of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u48	Thank you, Mr President. If we are not careful, there will be a shortage of 125,000 employees in healthcare within a few years. 125,000, that's a town the size of Zwolle, including babies and grandparents and grandmothers. You can imagine the consequences that that has for clients, for patients, for the people who work in care themselves and for all of us, actually. We already feel these consequences: operating rooms closed, whole wards closed, people unable to be helped and placed on a waiting list or somewhere else to go, older patients who have to stay longer in hospital because there is no care available in the nursing home, the workload for workers in care that is unacceptable, more and more health care workers who are falling out with burn-out and further increasing absenteeism. We see that market forces in the labour market have entered into care: people who are lured away and bought away from other health care institutions, people who get substantial contributions to come, to stay, or when they bring new colleagues andzzp'ers who see their rates double. And this is just the beginning. If we don't look out, one of our most basic needs, which comes close to good care when we have any or some longer problems with our health, our highest good, comes under increasing pressure. That is unacceptable, especially at a time when things are going better economically than ever. It is clear: all hands on deck to get more people to care and hold on. The Work in the Care Action Programme did not come a day early. It is a programme in which a lot happens, in all kinds of areas, in all kinds of places, in all kinds of areas and with all kinds of players. So much that it takes a lot to see the forest through the trees. This applies to us, but also to the sector itself. There has sometimes been so much rigged up, for example when it comes to the conditions to be met in order to qualify for subsidies or pilots, that smaller, but not less important, sectors of activity, I do not mention, as an example, the general practitioner care, hardly or only with a great deal of difficulty, and if we are not careful, we are going to drop out. From signing a 30-shot project agreement on fewer forms in health care to requiring participation in all kinds of meetings, it is not possible for a general practitioner, for example. I ask the Minister to ensure that smaller industries can actually participate. This could be very practical by, for example, having health care groups acting as captains on behalf of a club of general practitioners, so that they can take on that real bureaucratic side. Mr. Chairman. The aim of the action programme, as we read, is to reduce deficits to zero or close to them in four years. That is necessary and ambitious, but it is after this cabinet period. The question is whether the Minister dares to be so ambitious for the period in which he himself is at the wheel and dares to mention a number to which we can address him at a time when he is still here. I invite him to show that ambition and to make it concrete. It appeared at first that these ambitions were expressed on matters such as the percentage by which absenteeism should fall, which should reduce outflow, which should increase the average number of contract hours of employees, which should increase the number of side-intromers, re-enterers and returners, and on the percentage by which administrative burdens should be reduced. Later, the percentages mentioned for all these categories did not show ambition, but were simply arithmetical examples, suggestions. Then, of course, the question is where these percentages come from and whether they are based on anything. To what extent are they realistic? And how are they helping to achieve the goal I just mentioned? Moreover, it leads to the question whether it really doesn't matter as much as how these people get there as they do. That can't be true, I'm asking the Minister. I ask him this because, for example, academic hospitals do not want to make collective agreements on matters such as tackling the workload, the subject for which employees in these academic hospitals have taken action because they consider it so important. And it's not just them that cares. This is demonstrated by the massively filled-in Facebookpoll of Healthcare in Action. What does the Minister think of that? Does he think such an attitude would help employers? And what's he gonna do about it? The documents we have received for today, but also from, for example, the poll of care in Action I have just mentioned, show that, in particular, the conditions of employment and the limited opportunities for growth in care are grounds for leaving care or for leaving it prematurely. You would think: that is what we see prominently in an action programme aimed at getting people to care and holding them there. But no. Why not? Doesn't the Minister think that people in care should feel the appreciation and respect they deserve in their wallet? I also ask this because the Minister is increasingly talking about the importance of good employment in health care. I'm glad. It is important, especially in today's and tomorrow's labour markets, to take good care of your people. In my view, it would be a good idea to take a more prominent view of this interest, and what that requires from employers. It is important not only to leave it with fine words, however true, but to make it a condition, for example, if you want to be eligible for subsidies or pilots. Would the Minister care to think about that? Too often I hear from people who work in the care that there is a culture of fear, in which people do not dare to stand up for their rights, are not taken seriously, are not seen and treated as what they are, namely the largest capital of care and the cork on which good care floats. If you want to live up to the ambition of getting more people into care and keeping them there, it is only logical to listen to these people and do something with what they say, about those salaries and about that workload. That is not happening now or is totally inadequate, and that is a missed opportunity, for more than one reason. Last week, care workers, among others, went out here in The Hague. What does the Minister now say to these people about the abolition of the dividend tax, which would mean that more than 2 billion a year would go to Shell and Unilever's shareholders? Does the minister say to the people in the care "I've heard you, I've listened to you and I'm going to make myself strong for you in dividing that 2 billion?" Or does he say "sorry, you're not up" or, more importantly, "we're going to cut back on care?" Because that's the sound we only heard from the coalition. I expect the Minister to say in this debate that he is committed to the people in the care, that in these times of economic prosperity care is not being cut, but that people are getting money. Finally, Mr President. The action programme was presented in mid-March of this year, 2018. A week ago, the Minister proudly announced that the initial results were encouraging. He got the paper with that, too. In particular, he pointed to the increasing numbers of students at the various health education programmes. Those numbers are higher in the school year 2017/2018 than in the previous year. Could the Minister explain to me how an action programme presented in March 2018 leads to higher numbers of students almost a year before, in the summer of 2017? I'd find that incredibly handsome, and it would make a lot of promises for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u49	Thank you. The next speaker is Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We'll be back in this room next week. Then we are talking about the VWS budget. Today, at the end of this Chamber week, we have a debate on perhaps the most important challenge in healthcare. How do we ensure adequate and well-educated care workers, now and in the future, when there is a shortage of more than 100,000 people? I see that the directors take seriously the challenge of the imminent shortage of staff. There is a solid action programme, there are three of them here this Thursday evening and money does not seem to be the biggest problem for once. The action programme was presented in March this year, six months ago, and now we have a first progress report. So a first moment to take stock of the situation. But when I ask people if they notice anything about Working in Care, I get a lot of negative answers, to be honest. Of course, we're just on our way, but before you know it, it's 2022. There isn't much time. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to make a number of general comments in my speech and then I will go through the three lines of action in the programme. Progress reports show in particular many examples of local initiatives which are valuable but which still have to be proved to a large extent. I am missing an overview of where the real bottlenecks are. How are things in the different sectors? Which regions are doing well and where are they doing less? There are 28 regional action plans for tackling deficits, but where do these plans focus? Above all: how can we see if all actions actually have effect? Today, I heard some signals from the Friesland region that the effect of the additional resources was certainly noticed. That is good, but it is certainly not the case in every region. Nor do we now have a view of the deficits by sector. Can the Minister give a breakdown by sector of those 100,000 to 125,000 people we'll need later? Mr. Chairman. A complex governance structure has been set up with regional action plans, an action learning network, an advisory committee and a national action table. But this structure can lead a life of its own and will provide more paperwork. The care workers I speak to are not waiting for this and just want room to deal with matters as locally as possible right away. Of course, we need to learn from each other and share best practices, but how does the Minister intend to prevent the administrative burden, precisely because of this extensive governance structure, from increasing again? Mr. Chairman. The action programme is integral. The main line agreements have been concluded by sector. How does the coordination between the programme and the main agreements go? An example I was given. In the main agreement on medical-specialist care, it was agreed to index wages. I understand this appointment isn't being carried out. How is that possible? What possibilities does the Minister have to ensure that such crucial agreements are implemented? Then the Sector Plan Plus. There is 320 million available for training pathways. Now I understand that EUR 260 million of this goes to nursing care, just the sector that gets a lot of extra money. Can the Minister explain how the Sector PlanPlus funds were distributed? Is it possible to make adjustments to the distribution for periods 3 and 4 if the matching of supply and demand so requires? I am considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. The 2017 policy review of the VWS labour market policy shows that effectiveness and efficiency were difficult to measure. Now the monitoring of this action programme again seems to focus on numbers rather than on results and impact. How can we ensure that in 2022 we can properly assess whether this action programme has actually had effects, I ask the Minister. We are asking for a lot of all the regions, and then we need to be able to monitor progress properly. I cannot stress it enough: of course we want to see whether this action programme is successful, but ultimately it is about the people who work in the care sector and the people who depend on care that will notice the difference. Then I'll get to the action lines. Action Line 1. Choosing more for care. We want more people, including more young people, to opt for care, but also to stay in care. We must therefore avoid blinding ourselves to attracting new people with good recruitment campaigns without paying attention to the people who are already there and who we also desperately need. Then I find the signals in my own network and in the Facebook group Care in Action quite worrying. People indicate that absenteeism is increasing, that the outflow is high and that the appreciation for their feelings, especially in terms of salary, is lagging behind. What message does the Minister have for the existing care workers? Is he prepared to involve employees more strongly in the implementation of the programme at national level, so that it can count on sufficient support? Then I come to the second line of action: learning better in healthcare. The second line of action also requires good involvement of employees. What are their needs in terms of growth and training? How do we keep them happy and challenging? One point I hear a lot is that level 2 employees are fired because level 3 has become the norm. It is good to make a quality stroke, but what can we do to keep these people right, for example with a tailor-made training towards level 3 or with coaching on the job? I'd like a response from the rulers. Mr. Chairman. There are many resources available for the promotion of expertise, not only the Sector PlanPlus resources, which I mentioned, but also by sector through, among other things, the main agreements. However, I am getting signals that it is a great deal of red tape to use, for example, quality resources in nursing care. It would be a shame if this left resources on the shelf for health care institutions and we failed care workers. How can we ensure that the funds are actually used? There must be sufficient internships and guidance to manage the expected influx of care students in practice. It is good that there is an internship fund for training, but how are health care institutions supported so that they also have the resources and time to properly assist trainees? Then the third line of action: Otherwise working in the care. A lot of people in healthcare would like to work more, but they don't get the opportunity. It is a well-known and persistent problem which the Minister also wants to address. It appears to be difficult to do this, but at the same time it is important that care workers are also able to get a good income from their work. What is the Minister going to do to bring together the wishes of employees and the opportunities that employers can see? There is a great potential, but with the good conversation and a light on the experiences with best practices only those are the solutions that the minister calls "you're not getting there." Then a few suggestions I was given to make the work different and more attractive. Less control pressure; that is a point that many others have already mentioned. More commitment to healthcare technology and home automation. It is good to do so, but also provide sufficient support for healthcare professionals and develop their competences. Of course, domotics can never replace human contact. Better secondary conditions of employment, e.g. a discount on health insurance for people working in the care sector. Exchange programmes between institutions so that employees can get fresh ideas from their neighbors instead of exchanging best practices through a national action table. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Providing more workers, better training opportunities and a different way of working in the care sector is perhaps the biggest challenge for these three directors in the coming years. No one wants us to shut down hospital wards or turn down beds. It calls for a proactive attitude of the cabinet to prevent this, especially with regard to the valuable input of those who are committed to patients and clients every day. I would also like to express my thanks here to all the staff in the day in, day out of care to those who need it. I wish the Cabinet every success and wisdom in further developing this action programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. You have an interruption from Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u52	Mrs Dik-Faber says that home automation can of course never replace people, but the action plan includes 25,000 savings from people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u53	I've seen that, too. In my opinion, we can make sure that home automation is a smarter way of dealing with things, but home automation must never be used when human contact is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u54	I therefore assume that Mrs Dik-Faber does not consider that 25,000 is feasible either. Then how does she plan to get additional employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u55	I find it difficult to answer this question because I do not know the justification. So let us together ask the Minister how he got to those 25,000 people. I'm sure you can give people with technology, with home automation, better care. You can organise the care differently, so that people who now perform certain tasks may be put in another place where human contact is needed. So domotics can help. This allows human power and hours to be cleared, but it must never act as a substitute if human contact is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u56	Minister De Jonge just sent a video into the world about beds with sensors. For example, domotics are used to see if people are restless. The result is that at night there is one night nurse on 75 people. That's where it goes when you're using domotics that way. That is also where the Minister wants to go if he wants to save 25,000 people. Everyone understands that with tablets you can organize more conveniently, but if you really think that home automation can never replace people, I think you should really be more firm towards your own cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u57	Let me give you another example, which is not so specific about home automation, but about using technology: e-health. I remember the debate on the ggz, in which I said to my surprise that e-health provides better care for ggz clients. I didn't expect that, but research shows that ggz clients are a specific group, not everyone are better helped if they get remote care with e-health in the home situation. This results in better satisfaction and better results. It means someone's having the conversation from home with a health care provider. So the conversation is there, but e-health is being deployed. These are innovations that I think are: let's take those opportunities. If these result in better care and therefore we can organise things more efficiently, then it is better for the people who receive care and it works better for the healthcare professional.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u58	I'm quitting, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u60	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u61	"I'm gonna stop"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u62	I would like to address the following speaker on the side of the Chamber: Mr De Lange of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u63	I would like to make a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u64	A point of order from Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u65	Yes, Mr President, I have a point of order. As I said earlier, we have the biggest debate of the year on care, alongside the budget. I said at the outset that I want enough room to ask questions, so I really don't appreciate you cutting me off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u66	I'm not just gonna cut you off. You are taking full advantage of your opportunity to interrupt. That's very much what you've been awarded. This interruption was once again in threes. I'm not gonna do that in fours. That goes beyond what I was planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u67	This was the only interruption with Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u68	Yeah, in threes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u69	And in the ggz the water is also up to the lips, so you can't save 25,000 people with e-health.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u70	Clear. I think that point has been made. Thank you. I turn to the following speaker: Mr De Lange of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u71	Thank you, Mr President. "No personnel, operation deleted" headlines the Stentor on October 2. It's a message that's not on its own. The Eindhovens Dagblad reports "care department closed due to lack of staff." Official Journal of the North: "Overtaxed doctors: closure threatens for general practitioners' posts." De Telegraaf: "Care for a lack of staff." Mr. Chairman. People often wonder if the care is there when they need it, or if their parents get enough attention in the nursing home, or if the first aid is ready when their child falls off the bike, or if the doctor has time to doubt whether the flu is more serious. These questions are understandable and, unfortunately, they are increasingly justified. The demand for care is increasing and, as we are all getting older, will only increase further in the coming years. At the same time, we see that people's enthusiasm for care does not increase. I'm afraid when a nurse tells me that she has advised her children not to work in the care sector. The temptation to spend today on all kinds of ideological reflections on healthcare systems may be great for some people, but that is not going to solve the problem of growing staff shortages. As far as my group is concerned, this also applies to the action plans presented by the cabinet. There are many consultations, new agreements and regional plans. But it's not concrete. And that's too bad. Because if we stop making sure that many people choose to care in the coming years, I am afraid that in five years' time the problem will be even bigger than it already is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u72	Mr De Lange of the VVD also does not believe in the government's action plans. So: what to do, dear VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u73	In the rest of my speech, I will state what I believe is even better, more concrete and different in order for this action programme to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u74	In any case, I see one attitude between opposition and coalition when it comes to the parties in the Chamber. Indeed, there is a lot of work to be done, because if this is not resolved, then even more operating rooms will close, then there will be doctor's posts closed, there will be no more people at the bed, the care will implode. I hope the VVD will take responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u75	Yeah, that was a call.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u76	I would like to go back to the nurse Mr De Lange was so shocked about, who advises her own children not to work in health care. Is it really shocking that Mr De Lange is shocked by that? If you show your face every now and then in a care facility, you'll hear the stories about the growing bureaucracy, about the power of the insurance company, which makes it impossible for people to work, about the workload, about the salaries? Then you can hardly be scared when a nurse says to her son or daughter: maybe you're doing the right thing to choose another profession?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u77	What I point out is that it is especially very important that the nurse does not say any more pride to a child: boy, I have a beautiful profession. That's what I mean, because it's a beautiful job. That is why I think it is so important for new people to come into care, but that it is also possible for those who are currently working in care to do so, and that the joy of working in it is paramount. I think that is the key point. You are right: I come into the care of a great deal and so I speak to those people and then I hear their concerns and concerns in this debate today. I think we share that concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u78	Yes, it is a wonderful profession and people are proud of their work, but caregivers also make a very rational analysis of what kind of future they give their children. They have also followed the policy and policy of the VVD over the last ten years: more market forces, more pressure from the insurer, more bureaucracy, too low salaries, too high workload. And then they say to their kids, "Well, you just have to think about where you want to work." Of course they're proud. We are lucky that these people will continue to do this work to this day. But what the VVD does is call very cheaply that one should be proud and then it will be fine. That is exactly what is said in those comments: positive attention, then the problem will resolve itself. No, we have to deliver, Mr. De Lange. There's got to be money. We're gonna have to raise wages. That nurse must be able to tell her children: it is a nice profession, it is a profession to be proud of and you can also support a family with it. That's the crux.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u79	Mr. De Lange, continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u80	Thank you. Can the rulers indicate what we can actually charge them for? What are they doing in a few years' time if it turns out that the staff shortage is not nearly gone? Why do we know what we will lack in terms of staff in the future, but do we not yet know how to organise care in the workplace in five or fifteen years' time? Why are there no specific targets? When can we expect it? Colleagues have already asked for it. Do the leaders know in which regions the problems are greatest? Do we know exactly what kind of people we need in these regions? Are those doctors, nurses, nurses? We have been talking for years about reducing the workload, removing rules and disappearing the ticking lists. I have seen the latter abolished on several occasions. How can we decide time and time again to stop doing something, when people in the workplace do not notice much of it? Is it the law, the health insurers, the profession, managers in institutions? How is this action programme going to contribute to treating healthcare professionals as the professionals they are, so that they can be given the opportunity to do their job as professionals, so that the workload can be reduced, but above all the work pleasure increases? If we want young people to opt for a career in health care, so hopefully there are a lot of people who need to train them well. Stories of a young intern who takes care of dozens of vulnerable elderly people in the night are not appropriate. If we are to prevent young people from leaving care again, we must provide adequate training places. At the same time, too many experienced employees leave because the work becomes too heavy. The VVD fights for all those experienced care workers. We need to stop the outflow. Make sure that all this knowledge is not lost and that the joy of working for them remains at the forefront. Are the directors willing to use the training funds to train experienced health care workers to work ment counsellors? Are they willing to give time and space for that? By providing an accompanying bonus for experienced healthcare workers, knowledge is not lost and new employees are well trained. This master companion model is successfully deployed at Patyna in Friesland. How are the rulers going to work out these kind of good examples? Can we see that in more places? Is that gonna be done? Many people who work with enthusiasm in care, do so part-time. What possibilities does the cabinet see for encouraging these people to go from 24 hours to 28 hours of work, for example, or from 20 hours to 24 hours? If many people choose to work a few hours extra, we already make a lot of extra care possible. This also applies to other additional measures. For example, if we manage to organise childcare more flexibly, it would be a lot easier for a single parent to work a few more hours. Do the directors see other concrete solutions that can help with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u81	I just had to let things get through to me. Mr De Lange says that the VVD fights for the people in the care. We still do not see a lot of that "knuckle" in practice, because of course it starts with giving the people who work in care good working conditions. If Mr De Lange says that a few hours can already make a world of difference, then I say: those few hours work very often, like overtime that is not always paid out. Does Mr De Lange agree with GroenLinks that overtime should be paid, and that we should offer fair rates to all those people who work in care before we ask them to work for a few more hours? They just can't do that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u82	Important and honest work must be well paid. That is why I think it is extremely important not to have false discussions here as if we are doing the collective bargaining here. Of course, the people in the care sector must be properly funded. That is also the reason why there is an extra 18 billion for total care in this cabinet period. If you look at the wage and price adjustments, you're talking about about about $11 billion. So there's money going to that care. That should be used. Furthermore, it is a matter between employers and employees. I think it is important here to ensure that we take those measures, in particular, on which we do have an influence. And then it's about keeping all those experienced employees in that care, and also using them, for example, to guide younger employees. Hence the VVD's proposal to set up a kind of work bonus in order to return appreciation for the experience and knowledge these employees transfer. This is, for example, a concrete proposal to keep those experienced employees in care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u83	So if I hear it correctly, Mr De Lange says: we are not about all those people in the care who regularly work overtime and thus try to make ends meet with all the tasks and responsibilities that they still have at home, for example, so they can solve that themselves. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u84	No, I'm not saying that. Because I do not miss the fact that there is also work pressure. So it is also necessary to increase the number of colleagues, so that ultimately the work is properly distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u85	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u86	Mr. Chairman. Tomorrow's concern calls for different solutions than yesterday's. We need all the extra people we can find in care. But it's an illusion to think we're there with that. Because that's not the case. We are all getting older and the demand for care continues to increase in the coming years. And that's okay, but we have to play into it. This also applies to training in health care. Are the skills growing with tomorrow's questions and possibilities? How do people get the chance to gain experience in different areas of care? I am shocked when I hear a nurse telling me that the textbook consists of a pile of A4s with references to links on paper. Unfortunately, these links are not working in reality either. This does not, of course, motivate investment in training. Make it easier and more accessible, because these people are already busy enough at work. Are there clear conditions laid down by the directors on the basis of which training funds are made available? If so, which ones are they and how do they actually come back in the regional action plans? Does this mean that you teach people the skills to grow with the care jobs of the future? Are you prepared to ask for the money back when the conditions are not met? Encourage all those good people in care to keep growing and the patients will be very happy with that. Finally. The VVD is proud of all those people who work with heart and soul every day for care. We have to cherish it. But we should also give them the space to do their job as professionals. That gives us the expensive duty to ensure the right conditions and to get through, so that we give them the space to do what they're good at, what they enjoy, what they make people better with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u87	Thank you, Mr. De Lange. There is another interruption by Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u88	Mr De Lange began by saying that the VVD does not really believe the plan, the action programme, as it now stands. After that, Mr De Lange made a number of suggestions which were very good, and I have to admit that they may be positive. Let me get this straight. Is it true that if the Minister accepts these suggestions, the VVD is prepared to speak positively about the plan in the future and that, if the Minister does not, the VVD will remain negative about the plan, which contains a lot of words, but few concrete means that will lead to results?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u89	First of all, we have a debate here with each other to look at the ideas and plans that exist. I've added a few. What would the outcome be? The most important criterion is that all people in healthcare in the Netherlands find that we have been fighting here tonight for their future job fun. I think that's the most important thing. Then we must also look at how all these beautiful plans are turned into deeds and reality. Hence the call for action, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u90	I do understand that the VVD does require the Minister to do something with the suggestions, otherwise the opinion will remain negative. People should notice that we're fighting for them tonight, not just tonight, but also yesterday, tomorrow and the days after that. If you ask the people themselves, colleagues have also pointed out that they often talk about pay and workload. These are two issues that you did not mention in your suggestions, because others deal with them or because, as Mrs Ellemeet said, others have to deal with them. Don't you think that's a little unsatisfying? You think people should see that you're fighting for their interests, but you're not really doing anything with their two main points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u91	What really matters to me is that we fight for the employees in the care, that the experienced employees find that we support, facilitate and help them to grow further and make steps. The same goes for the new people in care. That's why I'm pleading for that job pleasure. However, I do think that we should be honest with each other about not taking a place where we are not sitting at the table, and that is at the negotiating table where the collective agreement is reached. I love a politics where you talk about what you're about. It's about these conditions. That's why we're together. You don't have to make false promises about everything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u92	Mr President, you know that I have been a collective negotiator for many years, and so have you. I was indeed pleased that there were no ministers. However, there is a very big difference between taking place at the collective bargaining table where other parties are doing their work and seeing if there is anything more possible in this action plan on these two issues than has been the case so far. Does the VVD think that's a passable road? Does she even want to think about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u93	I don't think that's what this is about. It's a brave attempt. I have outlined that a number of colleagues have the idea that no money is being invested in healthcare. Of course it isn't. Over the next few years, this cabinet will invest 18 billion in health care, largely also for wage and price adjustments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u94	Mr Kerstens' question is, of course, justified. Mr De Lange is not very positive about the plans as they are now. He's making some suggestions. It's true, one of those plans looks like something I myself suggest: see how you can make older workers contribute to the training of young people. Very good. But what else does the government have to do to get the VVD's approval, apart from showing decisiveness? What's that? If it's not about wages and workload, what does the VVD want?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u95	Dead power, and above all show that the control pressure goes down. There is a real need to take action on this. I do not believe that this is an essential condition. I do not want a shift in the future, but I just want those rules to be actually addressed and that this is noticeable. For example, this is something the VVD says: we really think that we need to take substantial steps in this regard. Everyone within the care is responsible for that, by the way. Let everyone take responsibility for that. In the coming years, all these people in the care sector will have to find out that there are fewer rules and that they have the space to do the work as a professional.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u96	Then the Minister will immediately refer to the scrapings, to (Ont) Rule de Zorg, to all kinds of talks about less rules. Yeah, I know him a little bit. At the same time, we hear from the caregivers themselves: there is talk, but we get new rules from the caregivers or from our own organisation. Of course, that is not what this debate is about tonight. We are talking about the labour market. The VVD is not particularly enthusiastic about the plans as they are. That is of course separate from the scraping sessions in (Ont)Rule de Zorg. I am simply asking the VVD very specifically what should be said by the cabinet tonight, after which the VVD can say: well, now we really have something to say, so our enthusiasm grows a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u97	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u98	Thank you very much for allowing me to repeat the substance of my speech. That is why it must be made clear that the activities in the action programme should focus on helping the people who are now working in the care sector. I have made a concrete proposal for this. I heard you go that way, too. How are you going to use experience and also appreciate to eventually guide the new people in care? I also think that steps need to be taken with regard to the way in which you deal with the training in healthcare. This must be done in a more modern way that is in line with the concerns of the future. It is about giving skills to people who are helping them, also in the future. Furthermore, the most important question: is that actually going to lead to work fun in healthcare? We need to be on top of that, and we need to check everything. Those are the three key points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u99	I agree with Mr De Lange that we need to do something about the regulatory burden, that it really is a thorn in the eye of people who work in the care sector. I do not agree with Mr Hijink that this is not appropriate in this debate, because when it comes to finding new staff, the cabinet has made available all kinds of budgets to attract staff. Now, around all these different budgets, there are again different accountability requirements that are being imposed, which also lead to more regulatory pressure. Does Mr De Lange agree with GroenLinks that we need to see how we can streamline those accountability requirements better, so that we do not create more regulatory pressure with the best of intentions with all these budgets?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u100	A deep problem of administrative burden and regulatory burden cannot be solved by introducing more rules and administrative burdens. So if that's what you're saying, if you're saying that everything we're doing is supposed to reduce the administrative burden and the regulatory burden, then I'm very much in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u101	That's good to hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u102	Thank you, Mr. De Lange. You have come to the end of your first term contribution. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u103	Mr. Chairman. In order to make the task we face about the staff shortages in care well understood, because we all know it rationally, but in order to feel it real, it helps to zoom in on the practice, both at the level of the caregivers and at the level of the health care institutions. Let me start with the perspective of the caregiver, of a neighborhood nurse. I talked to Caroline this week. She told me that she saw colleagues falling over, colleagues who were the only district nurse responsible for up to 100 elderly people living at home. A caseload of 100 clients, that's what they call it. Imagine that. And then they get to ask if they can get another one. That question is actually no longer a question, but a task. Caroline also speaks to colleagues who would very much like to go to a conference on palliative care, for example, to get new insights into developments in this area, but who cannot do so in working time, because you cannot write time for it. Mr. Chairman. What applies to these district nurses also applies to other care providers, such as disability care, youth care or ggz. Their work is reduced to the performance of the most essential medical operations. This is partly due to a shortage of colleagues, but also because of the lack of space in the contracts to continue to develop and to work on the beautiful slogans in The Hague, such as "chain care" and "prevention." I think that is a very sad observation. What do these leaders want to do to improve working conditions? How do we make it possible for Caroline and her colleagues to cooperate with other areas of care, such as neighbourhood teams, and not have to do training in their own time? I'd like a response. What would the people who work in health care already notice of the labour market deployment of this cabinet? That question has already been asked by several colleagues, and I ask it again. Mr. Chairman. I also spoke this week with two executives from a broad healthcare institution who are directly involved in finding and binding staff. They see in practice that the number of people in their nursing homes is increasing and that this number will continue to grow in the coming years. These residents have been staying in a nursing home for an average of two and a half years. That's longer than the picture we often have of people living in a nursing home these days. In addition, the number of clients living longer at home is growing. These managers also expect an increase in the number of people with psychiatric problems. That's what they've been investigating. At the same time, they are already facing a considerable shortage of staff. There could be 250 people working in this institution alone. 250 people can work there tomorrow. In the coming years, the gap between the demand for care and the shortage of staff will continue to rise across the broad spectrum of care. If you let this information get through to you, you will only realize how huge the challenge is and how much larger it is going to be in the coming years, as the peak of the ageing population is only in 2040 and the ratio between workers and older non-working people is becoming increasingly squirrels. Mr. Chairman. These data require reflection, but above all new directions for solutions, which are also about the organisation of care and about living and care, and which extend beyond the next four years. So we can't just talk about the labour market issue if we don't look more broadly, about the very big issues we face. We will now have to make a start, including with long-term solutions. We simply cannot afford to think about what we are going to do in four years' time when, at best, we have reached short-term targets. We will also have to think about anti-cyclical policies for care, so that we do not get a jojo policy, bouncing up and down on the growth and shrinkage of the economy. I would very much like to hear from these leaders whether they share this broader reflection with GroenLinks and how they want to take the longer term challenges into account in their labour market policies. I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. Of course, the main priority must also be to attract and retain care personnel in the next few years. These rulers are right to give priority to this. They also understand that their appreciation for the people who are already working in the care sector contributes to making the profession attractive. That's what I can see. They show that working in care is a wonderful profession. And that's where it starts. If you then look at the labour market plans of these directors, you'll find it fluctuating. We now have eleven lines of action, three tracks and then three lines of action. The dizzying is not only experienced by us as MPs, but above all by the people who have to work on it in practice. Because they need to make use of all these different budgets, which are happy. But they are different budgets to work on attracting and retaining staff, with different accountability requirements, as I have just said in an interruption. It is precisely this fragmented accountability burden that is extremely time-consuming and makes it difficult for institutions, if not impossible, to use forcefully and coherently on staff. Many institutions have been working hard recently on the Regional Action Plan Approach Deficiencies, the RAAT, and are entitled to funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u104	I have one more question about the regulatory burden. I remember that we in the Chamber have talked a great many times about dealing with the regulatory burden. There's been scrapings. GroenLinks rightly states that it is a major problem. We recognize that as D66. I am very curious to see what GroenLinks thinks should happen, different or extra, in order to tackle this regulatory burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u105	I think we can do some things. Let me confine myself to the labour market issue, because that is what we are talking about tonight. As I said earlier, fortunately we have different budgets available that can be used to recruit new staff. Unfortunately, these are now different jars of money. For an institution, that's pretty complicated. You have the quality budget. You have the Sector PlanPlus. You have the transition funds, which are soon called "innovation funds." So I think it would be very useful to take a good look at all the different budgets we have and at that accountability and then see if we can't streamline them better, so that we don't ask all those institutions to fill out separate accountability forms again. It's about how we can organize that smarter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u106	I couldn't agree more. I also had a question about the simpler organisation of governance, because that is what we are talking about. But I'm still asking another question. We are talking about the labour market, but one of the problems at all is the great regulatory burden on people who work in healthcare and all those hours that are spent unjustly or unnecessarily on administration and regulatory burden. Of course, that's a waste of the capacity we're looking for. I also wondered what ideas GroenLinks has, especially when it comes to dealing with this regulatory burden in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u107	I think there are several possible solutions. I would like to mention two. I start with the poor ICT in healthcare: not being able to transfer medical information from a general practitioner to a hospital. This means that data must now be re-entered at different points. This leads to much more administrative burden and regulatory burden. So I think we should take a good look at whether we can organise this better. Another point is the question of accountability, which we have already stated several times here that we must get rid of. I'm talking about the five-minute registrations. Yet you can see that this is still happening in practice. I think this also has to do with culture in different organisations. They are now used to being accountable in this way. It is also up to institutions themselves to look very closely and critically at what is really required and what is not. We also need to look at what the health insurers of the institutions are asking about their accountability requirements. If that leads to undesirable regulatory pressure, we will also have to raise it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u108	Thank you. Mrs. Bergkamp is rounding off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u109	I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps we can put this explicit question about regulatory pressure and ICT, which Mrs Ellemeet rightly says needs to be improved, to the directors. The point is that we are really looking at what extra is needed to tackle this regulatory burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u110	That's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u111	Please continue, Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u112	I was aware that many institutions have already worked hard together on the RAAT, that is to say the regional agreements. This allows them to claim the Sector PlanPlus funds. But the ink of this approach was not yet dry in many regions or the care offices came up with another approach: the RAK, the regional approach quality. For the RAAT and the RAK funds different accountability requirements, while they both aim to attract new staff. Well, then we're not doing something entirely convenient. Mr. Chairman. Then we also have Dignity and pride and we have the transition budget, which will be called innovation budget from next year, as I said earlier. These are all games that should contribute to solving labour market problems. In short, with all these different budgets with different requirements, we are increasing the administrative burden rather than depriving the institutions of this regulatory burden. That is why I would ask the rulers to reflect on that. Can't we do this smarter and wouldn't it be very nice to sit down with those people from the practice who run into this? I believe that these govern ments genuinely want to do something about this regulatory burden. They organize scrapings, but it can't be that on the other hand we're still creating new rule pressure. So I'd like a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the responsibility of this cabinet itself, the accountability that we may have to impose with each other here. There too, I agree with the words of colleagues who said: it is still too elusive. What are we going to charge these rulers for now? It's a somewhat negative word, but how can we monitor that progress? Often organizations work with dashboards on which you can indicate how things stand. Can we not, in a manner of speaking, identify the ten main points on which we wish to monitor this progress and on which the directors can report to the Chamber? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I want to end up with the people who work in healthcare, because that's what it's all about. Good care means giving trust and time to these people to do their job well and to give them the space to continue to develop in their position, and not just to grow into another function. I sometimes taste very much from plans that it is only about education to move on to another function. No, it's also about keeping people happy in the position they already have and which they might be very happy in if they get training too. My final question to the directors is: is there also sufficient attention to training opportunities for people who work in care, without that leading to a change of job? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u113	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u114	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about developments in the labour market in the healthcare sector. And there's a lot to talk about. It is a good thing that the Minister is putting in place several actions to combat the shortage of staff in the care sector. However, the CDA is still very concerned, not only because the number of open vacancies is still at an historically high number, but also because we see it squeaks and cracks. Especially in the region, we are increasingly confronted with a further deterioration of care, not because there is no need for care nearby but because there are shortages of staff. In the region, we are the first to see the problems. Last summer, in Drenthe, the clinical midwife care and clinical care departments were closed due to a regional shortage of pediatricians. In Groningen there is a serious shortage of general practitioners, so Delfzijl also risks losing the general practitioner post after the hospital. In Zeeland, the number of open job vacancies in the care sector has tripled in three years, partly because the ageing population there is hit harder than the average across the country. The water is on the lips of the region. The CDA therefore wants extra attention from the cabinet for the labour market outside the Randstad. Mr. Chairman. One of the problems facing the region is the ageing of the population, which is particularly acute in many areas. As a result, more staff are retired and fewer young people are entering care training at regional level. We read that the Minister asked the Capacity Body to make estimates of the number of training places required. Can the Capacity Body do so for a longer term and also make estimates of the need for each region, so that, precisely where there is the greatest need for staff, funding for training places can also be reduced? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In some professions there is sufficient staff, but the problem is that they are not in the right place. For example, nationally, we have plenty of pediatricians. The problem in Drenthe, however, was that Treant did not manage to lure pediatricians to the region. Isn't this partly because pediatricians have no idea what it's like to work in a regional hospital? And isn't it a matter of unknown makes unloved? And is it an idea to encourage doctors in training to take part of their internship in regional hospitals? Or is it even possible to make this mandatory? Mr. Chairman. At present in nursing and care, the average employment rate is about two thirds of a full-time employment relationship. I think Mr Bergkamp mentioned 0.73. In his letter, the Minister states that if all employees in a deficit profession were to work an hour more on average, this would reduce the shortage of care by 20,000 employees. Many employees want to work more, according to research by the nurses and the caregivers. As much as 24% indicates wanting to work more, a substantial part of which even wants to work four to eight hours more. There is therefore a great potential for reducing deficits in the short term. In addition, I am getting signals that young people in particular are still forced to work with small temporary contracts. You can't pay the rent. Does the Minister recognize that image? In his letter, the Minister states that he wants to work on reducing small contracts, but what is he going to do about it? That's not clear from the letter. We'd like to have a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u115	It seems as if Mrs van den Berg considers the hour extra feasible. But not only are you really laughed at in the planning department if you imagine that. They say there, and that's supported by research, that four out of ten employees have been working a lot more hours than that one hour. More than half prefer not to do so, but they do, because they do not want to abandon the residents. So why do you think that's feasible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u116	I think Mrs Agema is right to point out that a lot of people consciously opt for a part-time service association and are already doing a lot of overtime that they do not always need. On the other hand, therefore, we can see that there are also people who would like to have a larger employment. We would at least like to give them the opportunity to do so. In our opinion it does not help if you come up with temporary contracts and with a limited number of hours. Because as a younger person I say: I want to pay the rent; I will not be able to do that with such a contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u117	That's the other side of the story. I also asked the Minister about this: the rush hour dispute. Those employers who want to continuously classify people only for a few hours in the morning or a few hours in the afternoon, while you can really find the quality impulse we all want in the intervening period. On the walk, on the shower, on the chat. Then you'll have more time in those intermediate hours. They would very much like to fill in a lot of employees, but employers are not allowed to do so. I asked a question about that. Do I find the CDA on my side if I want the minister to resolve the rush hour conflict?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u118	I will come back to this subject later in my speech. We have indeed seen what Mrs Agema rightly points out: contracts are only made for peak hours, but we would like to call for a look at them too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u119	Is this a yes, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u120	I heard Mrs. Van den Berg will be back on it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u121	It is in this sense a yes that we also have a question to the Minister, I would like to give to Mrs Agema. I do not know whether we will agree entirely on the solution, but at least we have the same analysis question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u122	Mrs Van den Berg was just talking about people who want to work more hours. We have seen in pieces that there are quite a lot of people who want to, but that there are quite a lot of employers who reject it, for whatever reason. Mrs Van den Berg also mentioned the small contracts, the insecure contracts you can't support a family of. She didn't mention the term, but for me it affects good employership, a term that the minister also uses regularly. Now I have made the proposal to ask the Minister to consider whether you could not only appoint that good employership, but could also somehow play a role in qualifying for pilots or grants and the like. Is it a passable way for the CDA and for Mrs Van den Berg to think about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u123	I understand from Mr Kerstens that he is asking if we can find something to reward good behavior. I always think that's better than punishing wrong behavior. We would like a response from the Minister to this question. I hear from people I've spoken to that they would like to work more hours. There's a need for that, too. The employer prefers not to because of the planning. I'm not entirely convinced why that really wouldn't be possible. I share the analysis question of Mr Kerstens. Then we will see if we can reach the same solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u124	I welcome Mrs Van den Berg's reply. She and I know each other from a previous life. We used to meet at the collective bargaining table, she on behalf of the employers and I on behalf of the workers. I would like to talk to the CDA about this, partly on the basis of the Minister's answers, which he is undoubtedly going to give. We will wait and see what those answers are like. We will see if we can find each other in the context of reward is better than punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u125	Thank you. Mrs Van den Berg, you will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have always learned that labour market problems ultimately resolve themselves in three ways. More people are being hired. Other colleagues have also mentioned training, which gives people more skills. That's not always to flow through. Mrs Ellemeet rightly pointed out that this could make the current position more enjoyable. I also mention innovation. I mean technological innovation, but also social innovation. By which I mean that completely different combinations have to be looked at. I strongly support training and innovation. This brings the Netherlands further, also in terms of development. I notice that the report speaks very much about hiring more people, but actually relatively little about training and innovation. I'd like a little more attention to that. Isn't one of the problems that the work has been cut up enormously? We were just talking about it. People who want to work full-time have to run double shifts or they have to take two totally different jobs in order to get to the full-time association. Can it be true that there are perverse incentives in the funding that stand in the way of different and more work? Would the Minister like to see if more possibilities can be created in a creative way to work more? Can the Minister indicate what the impact of this social innovation and also that of technological innovation could be on the influx? It is good news that more than a third of the workers in the care indicate... Sorry, I'm wrong. It's not good news. I'm reading it wrong, and that's a big difference. It is not good news that more than a third of the healthcare workers indicate that they are partly dissatisfied or even very dissatisfied. As a result, more than 80,000 people leave their jobs in healthcare every year. Other colleagues have also indicated this. If the back door does not close, the mopping with the crane remains open in the recruitment and selection. Work in care must therefore remain attractive. A much heard complaint is the huge administrative burden. Data needs to be knocked in several times. Investigations are done in duplicate because there are no more data. Hospitals employ pharmacists only to find out which medicines are being used upon entry of the patient. That's the wrong use of staff. This is particularly important for regional care providers, because the physical distances are greater there. Good digital connections and good infrastructure so that healthcare professionals in the region as well as in the Randstad can communicate properly are therefore essential. When is the Minister really in charge of ensuring that information is clearly recorded, that ICT systems of healthcare providers can communicate with each other and that there is one secure digital connection route to transport the data? We've asked for that before. In the Action Line Better learning in healthcare we see all kinds of initiatives to seduce more young people to choose care and well-being. In fact, I still miss social service in the whole of the action plan. What opportunities does the Minister see for bringing young people into contact with care and well-being through social service? Finally, Mr President. Working in care must be attractive and remain. This cabinet is working hard on that. In the coming period, the focus for the CDA will be on making work attractive in the care sector in the region, because that is where we face the biggest challenge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u127	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. There is one more question from Mrs Ellemeet, so you will stand still.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u128	It is not surprising, of course, that a CDA chamber member is calling for attention to be paid to the region of.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Because I believe that the problems, the labour market problems, in the big cities are not undermining those in the region. The stories I hear from the big cities sound very familiar, even when I hear Mrs Van den Berg's story now. Does Mrs van den Berg agree with me that we need to be careful not just to shed light on the region and forget about the problems in the major cities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u129	I fully agree with Mrs Ellemeet. I also said at the end: not only in the region, but also in the Randstad. On the other hand, we have often seen - and I have mentioned some examples of this - that the region is one of the first places where there are deficits. Because of the physical distances, this often has even more impact. We see that very often people focus on the Randstad, while more than 50% of people live outside the Randstad. We want to find a good balance in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u130	Thank you. Then Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u131	I agree with Mrs Van den Berg. I think it is extremely important that we look carefully at the specific circumstances in different regions, whether that is the big city or Drenthe, Friesland or Limburg. We need to look closely at the challenges in those regions so that we can include them in the labour market plans we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u132	That is also the reason why we have asked in our contribution whether the Capacity Body can provide a much better division there too. There are a lot of figures available to me, if you look at all the different websites and inputs, but it's about getting them together more clearly, so that on the one hand we know what the healthcare provision is, of people who can provide care, and on the other hand we know how that is going to develop and what actions we need to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u133	I very much agree that there must be good care everywhere in the Netherlands. I have a question. You are now proposing that some of the training courses should also be provided in the local hospitals. Do I understand Mrs Van den Berg right now that she means that a doctor in training can do that at the Alrijne Hospital in Leiderdorp, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u134	This is what we are advocating. At the moment you can get your education in top clinical and academic hospitals. That they remain ultimately responsible may be the outcome, but the question is whether you can provide an internship in a regional hospital under that responsibility. That is the question we have asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u135	You're talking about a regional hospital. I thought you said regional hospital earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u136	No, county hospital.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u137	That's why I'm trying to get some clarity right now. Of course, there are local hospitals in some more crowded parts of the Netherlands. So, in fact, you're saying it's okay that in all those places in all those hospitals people are actually going to do internships? So that's what you're arguing for? Otherwise I'm so worried about that hospital in Leiderdorp, which also wants to have good people for those training courses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u138	I misunderstood Mr De Lange's question, but this is clear. We have the top clinical and academic hospitals and the general hospitals. So we'd like to see a lot more internships in those general hospitals, no matter where they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u139	You're loosening up a lot, Mrs. Van den Berg. Mrs Bergkamp also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u140	I have a more factual question. I often get the impression that doctors in training travel all over the country. I know someone who lives in the Randstad and who's internshiping in Zeeland now. So I was just wondering what the CDA is basing itself on when it says that doctors in training do not have enough training in local hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u141	In any case, we have noticed this in the whole debate on the occasion of Drenthe. I have heard the President of Paediatrics on the radio say: we are now deliberately going to promote that there is also an internship in local hospitals, just to take Mr De Lange's term well. Indeed, many doctors in training are now travelling throughout the country, but that can also be from one top clinical hospital to another. If I do not have the facts correctly, I would very much like to hear them, but we have noticed this as a result of the discussion on Drenthe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u142	You said it nicely that we may not sometimes share the analysis and that we are interested in the reaction of the cabinet. On this point, I would like to ask the cabinet to have these figures prepared. That way we can really determine with each other whether there is a problem there. Moreover, I think that obligations go a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u143	Okay. My first question is can we tempt them, seduce them. And the question was whether it could possibly become mandatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u144	Thank you for your contribution. I call Mr Van der Staaij to the cathedral, as the last speaker on the side of the Chamber in the first term. He is a member of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday I had a nice conversation with a specialist in old-age medicine and a nurse. And frankly, I noticed that we were initially on a slightly different wavelength. I was busy looking for all kinds of solutions, but they wanted to stress the urgency of the shortage of staff in the care sector. And I thought: yes, but we already know that from all the work visits and all the contacts, and everyone already knows that the politics are high on the agenda. I thought there was an action plan and a special debate with no less than eight minutes' speaking time. We hardly ever have such a long speaking time. But I noticed that really doesn't impress that much. I asked for a concrete example. I said, "Why don't you feel that urgency is so strong in politics?" It is said that when we are working on the work floor, we are still being asked to come up with plans on how we can make a "quality jump" in our nursing home. They say, "Quality jump"? Is that a bad joke? They say we're busy here closing the holes in the grid. So in itself very good and valuable intentions that we all understand and which I have also explained nicely can happen differently. It is said: please, have noticed that the water is really up to the lips of many people, that the need is great. The significance of this debate is therefore, in my view, also in order to put forward this very clearly, very clearly and in full agreement. Yes, we are aware of that in the Chamber, and I would also very much like to hear from the cabinet that they have that through there. I am convinced that consciousness is very strong and that everyone sees and sees and feels that it is not going well at the moment. There are far too many open vacancies. Too long and too often people have to walk on their toes. Too many people in care are actually overburdened and underpaid. That's something you can't get past, and it's what you come across all the time. This also calls for an awareness of this urgency, and it calls for every effort to be made to do something about it. I hope that also the rulers want to communicate this constantly and in all possible ways to all those workers in the care, so that that is clear to everyone as well. Because if you have to walk on your toes, there's really nothing more annoying than having the idea that that doesn't really get through yet, and that not everything is being done to make progress here. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to find possible solutions soon. But the bridge is one more time that conversation with that specialist in old-age medicine. He illustrated how much this workload can be by telling us that he is sometimes responsible on his own on a night shift for about 1,000 patients, divided into 14 locations. They're patients who need a lot more complicated and heavier care than a few years ago. As a result, services are incredibly busy. Phone calls from the houses are falling over each other. Many of his colleagues have already disappeared from care because they could no longer cope with the workload. What solution does the Minister see for this? Could part of the money for nursing care be used to limit more explicitly the number of patients for which a doctor is responsible during duty? Mr. Chairman. Another point that strikes me from different conversations are those re-enterers. This is indeed an important target group for resolving the shortage of staff in healthcare, but I note that the thresholds for re-enterers are often still too high. This is also due to the opposition to the re-registration in the BIG register. The lead time of the BIG registration for graduates is shortened; very well. But I also hear that re-enterers experience thresholds, that they first have to work below their salary level, until that BIG registration is complete. Others point out that the requirements of continuing training are sometimes far removed from what they really have to do in practice. Too much rigidity, in short, and several points around the BIG registration as a threshold. I would also ask the rulers to look very clearly at the possibilities for relaxation there, without, of course, compromising quality, because nobody wants that. Mr. Chairman. Another point I think is the use of people without jobs, the unemployed. I often hear of this: be careful with that, because that is not possible in the healthcare sector because you really have to have a heart for care if you want to go to work there. That is certainly true, but I also see that, for example, in the report of the V&VN, the professional association of nurses, nurses and nursing specialists, it is stated that there are also tasks that they would no longer want to do: non-patient organisations, certain things about schedule planning, household tasks, stock keeping. So wouldn't there be more opportunities to employ people without a job? When you ask around, I notice sometimes that match isn't made very much. So what are the odds here? Mr. Chairman. Administrative burdens have already been mentioned by many this evening. Of course, many people are also a thorn in the eye. They're also the big bogeyman for disrupting people's job fun. Initiatives that are being taken are very good, but I can also hear them again: health offices and health insurance companies sometimes risk jumping into that hole again with all kinds of additional, detailed quality requirements. How is this prevented? How is the practice going to find that bureaucracy is really being dealt with? Mr. Chairman. In the letter the Minister says he wants to invest in the training and training of employees. Very good; it needs to be made attractive. There too, you run into strange obstacles. For example, a nurse who starts training as a nurse is told that the salary is frozen according to the collective agreement. This training will take two to two and a half years. The freezing of the salary is another big bump to go to that training. Should this not also be explicitly addressed by the social partners? Speaking of training courses, what possibilities would there be for reducing basic training for nursing students who can go through the substance quickly? That way, they could get to work sooner. And another point about difference in salary; also a relevant question. How do we prevent sub-sectors from competing on salary? Also from the care of the elderly you sometimes hear that the salaries are lower than in hospitals. If the working pressure is even higher, then one plus one can quickly be two. So what are the possibilities of making these salaries more uniform and of combating competition between sectors on pay? Mr. Chairman. I mentioned all the solutions put forward from the workplace. I also found the plans of the V&VN interesting, which I have just appointed. I would also like the directors to take these plans with them and test them. Finally, I agree with all the questions that have been asked about how we can monitor or monitor that the objectives set by the cabinet are actually being achieved. I wholeheartedly agree with that. I would also like to know that, but with one but one: it must not lead to more bureaucracy for the institutions by re-attaching what exactly they are making in the context of this action plan. So with this particular assignment, I would like to end by burdening the cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u146	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Before I suspend the meeting, I'll take a look at you. The request has come to me for a little longer for dinner break, so that you will also have the opportunity to agree some motions, but to proceed directly with the second term after the cabinet has completed the first term. I'll see if there's a nod in agreement. That's the case. Mrs. Agema?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u147	I'd like to add a very small point. I said in my interruption at Mrs Bergkamp that the difference in starting salary between a teacher in primary education and an HBO nurse in the hospital was €700. I mentioned function group 45 there, but I have to supplement this. In function group 35 the difference is gross €771, in function group 40 the difference is €742 and in function group 45 the difference is €419. Over the years, this continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u148	Then that's corrected. Mrs. Bergkamp?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u149	Then I'd like to correct something, too, if we get the chance. I said Care in Action is a knowledge network, because they mainly communicate through Facebook...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u150	I heard you say it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u151	...but it's an action group. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u152	Here's to it. I'm suspending the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u153	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Working in Health Action Programme. We will continue with the first term of office. I welcome the rulers once again. I give the Minister of VWS the opportunity to begin replying. Perhaps he could also take us with him in the order of things and the division between the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start with the latter, with the division. You've asked a lot of questions. We've been trying to sort them out a little bit. I shall begin myself with the first block on the scope and feasibility of the task. A lot of questions have been asked about that. The second block deals with monitoring the impact of measures and support in the regions. The third block is about the first line of action, choosing more for the care. The fourth block is about working conditions. In the fifth block I go into a number of questions about my portfolio that weren't easily divided into the other blocks. We will, of course, deal with all three questions relating to our own portfolio. My colleague Bruins will then take care of the second line of action on learning in care and training for care and the third line of action. Furthermore, we will simply deal with questions about our own portfolio. We've come up with a way to sort out the answer. You were right to see the three of us here. Some of you have mentioned this. That has everything to do with this being an assignment that concerns all three of us. We actually regard this as the greatest task we have with each other. I actually hear your room say the same thing. If we don't deliver on this assignment, all the other assignments we have are hardly real. So we have the urgency of this very acutely on the retina. The most important question is how our employees are doing in the care sector, where it is not only about whether we have enough, but also about how satisfied they feel and how happy they are in their job. That's for our number one. That is our most important task. What Mr Van der Staaij said about this is striking. He said that it is not everyone in the care that is equally clear how urgent politics thinks this issue is. We are now showing how urgent this issue is. That's what the three of us do when we're on work visits, when we're talking to employees in the care sector. There is literally no day that goes by that this issue is not on our agenda. It's about when we're at work or when we're at the table having a conversation, because this is our biggest problem. Because if we don't do anything extra or different now, in 2022 there will be a shortage of 100,000 to 125,000 employees for the care and well-being sector. We want to reduce that deficit. I will give the answers to that in a moment, and I will follow the layout I have just outlined. This spring's Work in Care Action Programme is the first action programme that we have sent to your Chamber. We set out three lines of action. The first is to choose more for care. We need a lot more new people. The second is about better training for care and better learning in care. The third is Anders working in the care. 'Cause with new people alone, we're not gonna make it. We will discuss this further in response to the questions in a moment. The assignment is much bigger than that. The focus of the approach is in the regions, with the Regional Action Plan Approach Deficiencies. I will return to that in a moment. The first figures that we were able to send to the Chamber in the progress report show an encouraging trend in itself. All regions have a regional approach. Employment increased by 39,000 employees between 2017 and mid-2018. Those are real employees, so no vacancies. For the 2017/018 school year, many more people opted for care training. The number of placements financed by the internship fund has increased. 130,000 training courses have been financed from the Sector PlanPlus. In short, you see a number of things moving in the right direction. But the urgency and scope of the mission are unabated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u155	This increase calls the Minister "encouraging," but is it true that this increase took place in the period before the Health Care Work Action Plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u156	That's de facto true. Yeah, sure. You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u157	Well, then the Minister can't write that on his conto, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u158	But I don't. What I'm saying is that first numbers are moving in the right direction. That is encouraging, but at the same time I say that the task is still great. Then, chairman,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u159	I hesitated, but Mr. Kerstens asks for the floor anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u160	Yeah, I'd like to get over it anyway. Is the Minister simply saying that he wrote down those figures about more students and more internships in the school year and such before his plan saw the light, perhaps a bit so that the whole outside world thought 'well, those are the first encouraging results of the action programme', when that is not really true and those two things are separate from each other? Is that what the Minister says?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u161	No. I'm saying that the inflow rates for the school year that started before the cabinet started, there were before the start of a program Working in the Care. This is not about claiming results. That would be very special. The point is that you see that the trend on a number of indicators as we can measure them now is a first step in the right direction. But we still have a great deal of work to do in the coming years. That is what I think this whole debate is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u162	At least now I hear the Minister say clearly that there is no relationship between his action programme and the rising figures, the rising numbers of pupils. I am just as pleased as the Minister that it is moving in the right direction. I hope that the action programme will give that another move in the right direction. It would be useful, in my opinion, to make sure that at the next few moments when we are going to monitor again there is no fog and to write what is to be traced back to the action plan on the basis of the action plan so that we can find out very clearly what other causes are, because the school year began long before the action plan saw the light, not every time we have to go fishing whether the minister means this or that. Let's just be clip-and-ready about it if we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u163	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u164	The CPB has indicated that it is difficult. Please indicate what is to be written on the context of the action programme and what is not. That's just helping.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u165	We'll get back to the monitoring in a little bit more detail, because I think you want more than that. Besides, we don't run a cookie factory here. This is a very complicated issue. So you cannot say: this particular measure has had this specific effect; this is the extent to which it has contributed. That's not how it works. It is about the sum total of everything that is happening in response to the huge problem of staff shortages.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u166	This is right. It is, of course, completely impossible to determine exactly which development depends on which plan. Look, in the letter the Minister himself writes: the first results are encouraging. He is referring to Mrs Agema's point, namely the additional jobs that have been created even before the action plan was put in place, the additional numbers in this academic year, which has already been discussed before this action plan. The Minister himself speaks of first encouraging results. Then he should not blame us for suspecting that he sees a link between these results and his own efforts. So clearly there is no such thing in this case. Then you shouldn't write that down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u167	No, what I meant to say is that it is about the first results of all the efforts that have been made. I did not mean to say that this was from this programme. That is not possible either, because a large part of the results is about a school year that had already begun when we recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u168	But that makes it extra important...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u169	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u170	... how we're gonna keep an eye on this for the future. My fear is that this is also a bit of the experience we have built up with this minister over the past few months. I just want us to get very clear agreements on what the concrete measures are and how we can control them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u171	I think you have come to know me as a minister and the three of us as leaders who like to answer for policy that has been pursued; who like to identify as precisely as possible the progress made on a number of indicators that we consider important to have in mind. A large number of questions have been asked about monitoring. I will deal with this in detail in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u172	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u173	Then I go to the first block, because that is the most useful thing: the scale of the task and its feasibility. We calculate that size as 100,000 to 125,000. If you add up for the next few years how many new employees are needed, because of the regular outflow, the replacement demand and the increased work, that will add up to about 190,000 employees. The regular influx or supply from the training and side influx has been added up to about 90,000. That means you're gonna come up with a sum of 100,000 if we don't do anything else than we always did. In addition, we add 25,000 vacancies, because they were measured at the end of 2017. That was the last figure when we made this action plan. We didn't know if those vacancies could be filled at all. That's why we always speak from 100,000 to 125,000. These estimates are based on the estimates we make for our budget. Because there will be a lot more money available in the coming years, this also means that demand is greater. The estimates in the budget are based on the CPB's estimates, which are partly based on the growth of the care demand estimated by the RIVM. In short, this is based on a sound analysis, but it remains estimates. Let us first look at the questions on this issue. Mrs Ellemeet says: with the deficit of 100,000 to 125,000 and all the measures you take, with the aim of not letting it happen at the end of the cabinet period that those 100,000 to 125,000 are actually true, but getting as close to zero as possible, it is about now. But if you look at the future after this cabinet period, you can see that the demand for care will increase even further. This is mainly due to the ageing population, but also to all kinds of innovation developments, which tend to lead to an increase in demand and not to a decrease in care. In the meantime, the labour force is shrinking. In this combination, Mrs Ellemeet's concern about the labour market is more than just a concern about the labour market. In this programme, we already say that it is more new people, better training, but also working differently. That is even more true for the future. In the coming years, we will focus on this in different ways, for example in what we do for the longer term. I would like to combine this with Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Dik-Faber's question as to whether we can divide deficits in the various sub-sectors for the longer term. In the years to come, we are going to work quite intensively on a number of committees in order to carry out these further analyses. On the affordability of the care, the WRR and the SER will advise us. When it comes to the question of how to organise and structure care at home, there is the committee on which a motion by Mrs Bergkamp hinted at the previous budget debate. He'll be working soon. Then we are talking about how we organise care at home with a substantially larger number of people who need that care at home and perhaps fewer professionals than we currently have. So that's a second element. In addition, several analyses are carried out. You are asking for the analyses to be carried out at sub-sector level, and not for the next five years, because this is already happening at sub-sector level, but for the next five years. That's very difficult. Let me give you an example. I call care in the right place, moving care from the hospital to the first- or one-and-a-half or maybe even home. We know from that movement that it will take place in the future. To what extent and at what speed are extremely difficult to provide. However, we would now ask a research agency to look beyond those five years ahead and to say exactly how many people will be needed in that hospital or in that primary health centre. That is a question which, I believe, goes beyond the scope of the estimates.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u174	I understand that the Minister says that it is complicated or perhaps impossible to map this. But my question was different. We're seeing some trends. From these trends we can see that we will have to do more than try with man and power to attract and retain as many people as possible for care. So, unfortunately, the question is more complicated. It's complicated enough, but it's even more complex. I ask the directors: how do they look for radically new directions for resolution? Because I'm just afraid we're not gonna get there just looking at how we can organise that care more efficiently at home and how we can further improve the quality in nursing homes. That is all very important, but we will really have to think outside those familiar ways of thinking about how we are going to tackle this huge issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u175	I can only agree wholeheartedly with Mrs Ellemeet. One in seven people works in health care. If what RIVM predicts about the increase in care demand becomes true, and we organize it in the same way, then it is calculated that we have to have one in four people working in care. Not only can we not pay for this with each other, but we can't deliver it either, because not one in four is going to take care of it. So I very much agree with her that we will have to do everything we can, starting with this cabinet period, but certainly after this cabinet period. And the idea of this must indeed take place in this cabinet period, in order to structure the care really differently. I would like to mention a number of elements of how we do that. As far as its feasibility is concerned, I mentioned the WRR and the SER. As far as the organization across the different domains is concerned, this is the whole route of the task force The right care in the right place and the start of it. We make a regional mirror: what is the situation now? We'll make that mirror again in a while, of course. That's not a process that you can say "we're right there," but that's a movement that's set in motion, where care from the hospital goes to the first line and home. Most of the concern will nevertheless be given to the neighbourhood, so a third element is the committee set up as a result of Mrs Bergkamp's motion. That's what it's about: what if you get a lot of people you're gonna have to take care of at home? The main growth in healthcare demand is simply the increase in the number of elderly people from 1.3 million over 75 now, to 2.1 million in 2030. That is not so far away at all: that is already in 2030. There are thus 800,000 elderly people, most of whom will live at home and will need care. They'll be healthy longer, but they'll probably be sick longer. How do you organize that care at home? And Mrs Bergkamp's question was whether the current legislation is actually tailored to that, or whether it should be otherwise. These are all actions that we are now launching, because we still want to formulate answers to what needs to be done after this cabinet period. It is absolutely true what you say: you cannot continue to organise care in the same way as you do now, when you look at the distant future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u176	I must say that it is encouraging to hear that in this way, including from the labour market perspective, we are indeed looking at all these major issues. My question is: can the cabinet also take the steps it intends to take in the coming years to relate this great labour market demand to all these other issues... It's a bit of an island now, isn't it? If we are not careful, we are dealing with care in the right place, with labour market policies, with regional approaches and so on. It is, of course, essential that we link these things together. I'd like to hear from the Cabinet how it's going to do that. How can the Minister take the Chamber into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u177	I fully understand the question and I would like to go along with it, but let's take a look at the order of things. The labour market issue is one of the reasons for wanting to reflect on the organisation of care. When you think about this, the way you will have to tackle the labour market issue is then another resultant of what you have come up with. So if you would ask me to outline the long-term situation of the labour market before Christmas, but you do not ask me to do so, I would find that complicated. However, I would like to assure you that we will think about how we could do that and that we will at least come back to the long-term and to the question of how and when we can include your Chamber in the next progress report on this programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u178	Governing is forward-looking. I note, however, that a great many actions from the action programme take place during this cabinet period. I understand that, but I think it's also important to look at the future after that. The Minister states that five years is clear. I share the Minister's analysis that it is complex to look to the future, but I think it is important to look beyond those five years, with a view to demographic development, technological development and what it means for people who want to receive training and the number of teachers. All this is important to make policies that are sustainable in the longer term. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether, in response to my speech, he is prepared to look a little further than those five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u179	A number of estimates and studies I have just mentioned are also about the longer term. A derivative of this is the translation into what it means for the labour market. In the estimate for a number of professions, Mr Bruins will deal with this in a moment. I understood it that way, but perhaps I didn't understand the question correctly............................................................................................................................................................... If we asked the researchers that question, they would say to us: if you first describe what the care looks like, I can then tell you how many people you need for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u180	I understand the confusion, but my question was: can we, when it comes to the five-year prognosis, get a split by sector? Because now it's often just a mountain with everything in it. I think it is very useful to see what it means for nurses, caregivers and the various sectors we have talked about before. My second question on this was: is the Minister prepared to look at the distant future of care at all in order to make a prognosis of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u181	Maybe I can make this commitment. For the short term, what it means is what it means by sector. This is part of the labour market assessment of the Labour Market Health and Welfare research programme. Let me outline what is already known and is already being done on estimates, including their sectoral breakdown. But I understand your question, in particular, in the direction of the somewhat longer future: could it be possible to find a more forward-looking answer to this and, if so, in what way? We're already doing a lot of estimates. I am not very much in favour of duplication, but perhaps there is a longer-term question or a longer-term estimate to add to an estimate that is already underway. May I continue my studies on how best to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u182	I think it would be a good idea to study this further, but I would like to think along with the Minister. You have already indicated that demography has a great effect. In the past we talked about a triangle, but by now it's an apple.I'm just trying to visualize it by the number of people getting older, the number of people you'd get, with a look at technology. One question is actually the following. One of the problems at the moment is that we are still looking for that real analysis of how the problem we are facing today has arisen. Then you can do some things. Then you can look back and you can look forward. The plan is about the period in between. Wouldn't it be very good, given the movements that have been there in recent years, to look back and also indicate where you really want to go? That really must be longer than five years, because someone who starts his training today doesn't start for four years at the earliest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u183	I hear what you are saying, but I do not have a different answer from the one I just gave to Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Ellemeet. Let's do it the other way around. Let's go back to the movie for ten years. Then it was 2008. Did we know in 2008 that we would decentralise youth care and the entire Wmo? Did we know in 2008 that extramuralisation of zzp 1, 2 and 3 would take place in the AWBZ? Well, I can go on like that for a while. I think ten years ago we knew about nothing about all those developments that have taken place in recent years. It's a trend, of course. We could have made an assessment. There was talk of decentralisation at the time. Longer living at home was also a theme back then. But I am sure that if we had asked labour market researchers to make a prediction, they would have been so wrong that I really wondered what its value was. Labour market researchers will say to us: okay, we can do that if you can explain what measures you will all take over the next ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u184	I've always learned that if you don't know things, you should at least focus on the things you do know. A number of trends are, of course, quite clear. But I would like to put this down. These plans are now being continued in the regions. Surely the people who sit at the table in those regions, who are all involved in managing care institutions, know where they will be in more than five years' time? They are now also thinking about the question: where are we in ten years' time, where are we in fifteen years' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u185	I'd love it if they could do it in the next five years. Step one in those regional action plans........................................................................................................................................................................................... It analyses the areas, levels of training and sectors for which people will be needed in the coming years. As far as I'm aware, that's about a five-year scope ahead, and no further than that. I don't think so, anyway. For they too, of course, depend on all the policies that are then taken or are taking them themselves. And there too it will be quite a puzzle to look further ahead. I believe that the commitment I just made to Mrs Bergkamp is partly an answer to your question. I'm gonna see if, with all the estimates we already have, it's possible to be more precise ahead. That's what you want. I'm gonna try to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u186	I was already here in 2008 and I can assure the Minister that there were then screaming debates about the expected labour market shortages in healthcare. Half a million to something from this year or so. But those debates were pushed away, because successive Cabinets paid all the attention to system changes and even the previous Cabinet was going to fire all those people. If we hadn't done that, the problem wouldn't be so big right now. But what I actually stood up for was for the story about the future. The Capacity Body calculates exactly how many medical specialists, such as oncologists, geriatrics and intensives, we will need in ten years' time. It calculates exactly who needs to be trained now. That really happens on the man, woman accurately. Then I understand that it is not possible for every sector. I understand that's very complicated. But it is necessary to do something more than now. I often receive classes with nurses in training here. When I ask them, "Which one of you wants to work with children," all fingers go up. When I ask them, "Which one of you wants to work at the hospital," three more fingers go up. And when I ask, "Which one of you wants to work in care for the elderly," maybe another one will stick his finger on it. So you may want to increase the rate of return on training, however unfeasible I think these figures are, but above all you need to increase the potential for care for the elderly. That's why we need to know more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u187	I know what you're saying. That, in my view, is the commitment I made. Mr Bruins will have to discuss the question of the Capacity Body in a moment. But, of course, there is a difference between the epidemiological development of cancer, for example, the translation of epidemiology plus demography, where the question is how many oncologists you will need to do that work, and the shift in the organisation of parts of the care. In oncology, I don't expect it to be organized one-two-three in neighborhoods. In addition, it is also possible to window forward a little longer. There are also uncertainties in this respect. That's what the Capacity Body itself will say. But treatment of chronic diseases, where more and more can happen at home or in the first line, involves much larger movements. The estimate is then much more difficult to make, and the uncertainty factor is increasing. But I share your view. We need to know as well as possible, precisely because it is so difficult to react quickly. It's one of those mammoth tankers you've got to reroute. It is precisely because it is so difficult that we must be as far ahead and as precise as possible that this is, in my view, also an answer to the question put by Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Bergkamp, what is coming towards us and in what reality we are in. That is why I made that commitment. I think it also meets your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u188	Okay. You can take 150,000 people into care, but if they all want to work with kids, it's not gonna do you any good. So how are you going to recruit specifically for those sectors where the need is highest? We see a lot of recruitment in the action plan, but we don't see where they should go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u189	Would it be okay if I went into that in a moment at the pick-up block? That is a very fair question. This is also the reason why we are making that type of labour market analysis specifically in the regions. They're strategic labour market analyses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u190	I shall return to that commitment. When are we gonna get this kind of information?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u191	The question you just asked, I'm about to answer in the block about recruitment. Then there's the longer-term demand. I really need to study on that. I think it's just gonna be the next progress report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u192	I want to look a little less far away with the Minister than the five-plus years we were talking about. Ten minutes or fifteen minutes ago, the Minister had smuggled a little when it came to the start of the action plan and the results that you can or cannot write on the basis of the action plan. Now I would like to go to the end of the action programme. The Minister just indicated that we have a minister who would like to be accountable and that he will do the same about this programme at the end of the cabinet period. If the cabinet sits the ride, the next Lower House elections will be on March 17, 2021. I have also said something about this in my contribution to the action programme, which runs until 2022. That is why I am only going to ask the Minister once more. The ambition that has been laid down to move towards zero is necessary and it is also good. But can I tempt the Minister to share a clear definition with the Chamber at the end of this cabinet period, if he is prepared to answer at the end of this cabinet period? 'Cause he's not here right now. Actually, there are no real ambitions displayed, other than the end point. If the Minister says he likes to answer at the end of the cabinet period, let's just agree on where we can contact the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u193	I would simply like to go into this in detail in the whole monitoring block. So many questions are about monitoring. So I'd like to talk to you about that. I'll write down the question. I'm gonna forget about him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u194	That's how we're gonna do it. Mr Kerstens is reporting if the answer does not yet meet his expectations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u195	Exactly. I think we have given sufficient consideration to the scope of the assignment. A number of questions have been asked about their feasibility. We have actually already had that discussion. In our program we did not mean to say that you are doing it all the way the list of arithmetic examples was made. Our goal is for everyone to take all these measures. That one hour extra a week is about deficit professions. If everyone working part-time in a deficit profession started to work an additional hour per week on average, we would reduce the deficit by 20,000. Of course, that's an arithmetic assumption. Why did we put in those arithmetical examples, assumptions? If we have those 100,000 to 125,000 on the retina and talk about it with those 28 regions, such a number is going to make you dizzy... You have all mentioned examples of what is already visible and also mentioned examples of: what if it all gets worse? That's gonna make you so dizzy that you want to have a little grip on that dazzling reality. That was the reason to come up with a number of calculation examples. Then it is true that one hour in those deficit professions means macro 20,000 employees. Never at the level of the individual institution, of course. I'll be back on the outflow in a minute, but lowering the outflow by 10% results in 17,500 employees. You'd think you could do that with these kind of numbers. Reducing the administrative burden by one hour a week equals 20,000 employees. These are arithmetic assumptions and yes, they are included in the mix of measures taken by an individual institution and which includes a region in the sum. But that one hour of administrative burden has to be removed in the institution. We can contribute to this. We have had very extensive debates on this. But I can't announce it from here. Of course, that's not how our society works. Then I'll go to the questions that have been asked about the monitoring. There were quite a few of them, so I would like to explain that as well as possible. Of course, it is important that the Chamber has the opportunity to ask the question in any debate with the Cabinet and to get an answer based on that: are we doing the right things and doing things right? All of our programs are like that. This means that we have to answer for everything you could count, the indicators, about everything you could tell us, about the elaboration of the measures we have planned ourselves and about their impact. We'll do that in all the programs. In this case, the Work in Health Action Programme, it goes in a number of ways. And I just want to check it out to give you the complete sketch of it. In each of the 28 regions, the Working in Care Commission will monitor whether the approach is based on a good strategic labour market analysis and whether the response to that strategic labour market analysis is: the size of the deficit, which sectors are sufficiently credible. That's the first thing. The second is that we measure progress nationally, in particular on the figures of the Labour Market Health and Welfare Research Programme. We have agreed, from the VWS, with the social partners that we are based on these figures. Since August 1, all this has been collected by the CBS. Nationally, we are going to measure the progress towards the overall goal of sufficient, satisfied and well-equipped employees, on the three lines of action and on the tools of Strong in your work, Sector PlanPlus and the recruitment campaign that we will launch. With regard to this general objective, we will measure: the number of employees in FTEs, the development of jobs, the tension in the labour market, the satisfaction of employees and the extent to which they feel equipped for the work they do. With regard to Action Line 1, Choose more for the care, we measure the development regarding the influx into care courses, the influx into work from education and the number of side-intromers and re-enterers into care. With regard to Action Line 2, Better Learning, we measure the efficiency of training, the number of placements, the quality of placements and the percentage of staff in training. With regard to action line 3, we measure absenteeism, workload, outflow, contract size and the use of technology. In many cases these are quarterly dates, which usually become available a few months after the end of that quarter. This includes the data on employees, FTE, vacancies, absenteeism and outflow. The educational data is, of course, updated once a year. Survey data, for example based on employee satisfaction, will be available twice a year from 2019. During the previous discussion in an AO, we have already promised the Chamber that we will report to the Chamber twice a year. I think it was even a motion from the VVD. In our progress report on the actions and the main results, let me mention figures in order to avoid any misunderstanding, we will always do an annex with basically everything we have and everything that is a fresh set of figures. We will present this to you each time, as we have done this time. That was, of course, the first time and that is why it was an even thinner annex. These are all the data we're going to collect. Now that I list it all up, I have to think of Mr Van der Staaij, who said: "Yes, but be careful, because the Chamber wants to know everything. But anything we want to know, someone's got to die for us. And let's be careful with each other that those employees should be in care." If they are employers, we must also be careful, but if they are employees in care, we must be completely careful what we ask them to do. I'll put a comma right here!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u196	Very good, because that offers Mrs Van den Berg the opportunity to place an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u197	Of course, I am pleased that the Minister says that he also wants to monitor workload and employee satisfaction. But I wonder how the Minister's gonna streamline that. There are many ways to do that. The minister also mentioned the absenteeism rate. Well, even of that, you can make multiple definitions. And in order to prevent you from comparing apples and pears, I'm very curious how the Minister is going to set that up for 28 regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u198	A differentiated response to this is also possible. Some figures can be asked out in the same way at national level. For example, we have really agreed with the nursing home sector itself that the way in which employee satisfaction is measured there should be a comparable way, so that we can also make national statements about it. That's not gonna happen forever. It was Mrs Dik-Faber's question, for example: I want to know exactly what these deficits are in the region. We have not prescribed to the regions exactly how they should conduct their strategic labour market analysis. However, we have provided a number of instruments with which they could do so. This means that these strategic labour market analyses cannot be carried out 28 times with a staple, because they are not quite comparable figures. In part, the figures I mention are indeed comparable and in part, there is always a difference in definition that makes it difficult to get a national aggregated level. But let me just show you at the next monitor exactly what can be done nationally. That's what you get. In part, I will have to report to you on the basis of what the Working in Care Commission sees happening in the region. Then it is a little less numerical but therefore no less true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u199	I am sorry, because that also means that regions cannot learn from each other. If you measure it all the same way, you can learn from each other. The Minister also said at the end: then you will get all the dates in the report together. But data isn't information yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u200	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u201	So I would nevertheless like to call on the Minister to promote clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u202	I get that call, and you're absolutely right about that. If it is even possible, from the existing studies we have, the existing monitoring reports we have and the reports we have initiated on the basis of Working in Healthcare, to create unambiguous information on the basis of which you can compare regions, but also employers, then we will of course not fail to do so. And that's not just a big figure crow we're putting over the fence. We will always give an explanation of the figures in the letter we are doing, and we will also mention what we are doing in response to these figures. Then there is the state of play in each region. In reply to a question from Mrs Dik-Faber, I would have liked to answer that, but let me take it up at once. The Working in the Care Commission will be working this autumn. It will deal with the regional action plans and assess whether the analysis has been carried out properly and whether the response given in this region is an adequate response to the analysis that has been made. They will also report to us on this, and you will receive this at the next opportunity, at the next progress report in spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u203	I was just wondering if the Minister would ever look at skating. If you skate, you might want to drive a world record. Then you have a schedule and every round your time is kept up and it is important to know if you are on schedule. I hear the Minister mention a lot of things that are measured and monitored. But for us, of course, it is very important to know whether we are on schedule. If the only schedule is the world record during the next cabinet period, it is a little difficult for us to keep having a debate on this with the Minister. Just as it is difficult for the minister to take responsibility. Is the Minister prepared to record, in addition to those moments of measurement, moments when we can talk to the Minister about matters that are not on schedule and that need a tooth?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u204	That's the question I'd come to, but let me answer it right now. This is actually the same kind of question as: what objective, what ambition do you have on the basis of all these indicators? I understand that question. We spoke about this in the previous debate, in that AO, in that way too. You have to imagine this: we have a number of indicators per line of action, to which we want to measure the impact of that line of action. So we measure the extent to which we're getting closer. If you're looking at that very big task of that 190,000, that line has to be bent down. Especially by working differently, that line needs to be bent down. We have to do our job in such a way that we need fewer people. At the same time, we need to raise the line of the number of new employees. In this way, the task is getting smaller and smaller. Supply and demand need to get closer to each other, to say it in economic terms What we are doing with this is to keep track of what is happening by action line on many indicators. I have just referred to a large set of indicators. Now you're actually asking me: set targets for each indicator. I find that hard to do. What I do want to do on targets is a target, so it has to be reduced or more. More influx into training, for example, and less outflow. Yeah, I know. Those are goals. That's what you could call them. But in order to set a target per indicator, I think we are talking ourselves into the woods with some kind of mock precision. After all, what matters is the sum total of the impact of all these different indicators. They all work together, and in each region a little differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u205	I didn't ask for a schedule per indicator either, because then a lot of people have to work for it, but you could of course give an overall stand. Look, if Sven Kramer says to me: it's gonna be okay in the last round, I've got some fiducie in it. The Minister is undoubtedly a very good minister, but I think he skates less well than Sven Kramer, so I do need to see whether we are on track before, not on all these indicators. I think the Minister wants that, too. Then we'll see what's left behind and where we have to make a little bit of pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u206	Absolutely. First of all, Mr Kerstens is right: I skate less well than Mr Kramer. You may call me Sven. But he's right about the other thing. Of course, we have to indicate for each progress report that you will get that explanation twice a year from us. To what extent we have brought the goal closer. Since we're just getting started, I'm not giving a new estimate of the predicted deficit of 100,000 or 125,000. But I hope to be able to give a new assessment of this in the spring. I will do so on the basis of all the indicators we have. I very much agree with you, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u207	I'm going to see Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Much of my time has been devoted to making valid arguments about the feasibility of the Minister's plans. It is mainly about the numbers he indicates. He went through it very quickly in the block of feasibility. He has very quickly repeated what is already on paper, without going into all the arguments as to why these plans are so unfeasible. I'm actually wondering why.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u209	I think I have mentioned a number of calculation examples that we have used. These are not measures, but calculation examples that we have used of possible measures that an employer can take or that can be taken in a region. I also explained why we did it this way. If you have the great task of 100,000 to 125,000 on your retina and we all have it, then you must have a beginning of an idea of the extent to which that is feasible. That assignment is unlikely to be great, but it's impossible to achieve it. We measure that against a number of calculation examples that we have used. I just outlined that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u210	I'm standing here bewildered. I have so clearly, so long and so comprehensively argued why these plans are unachievable. The Minister only says: they are feasible. It's really insane. It says here: reducing absenteeism to the average of the entire economy. That's supposed to bring in 6,000 people. But care will always be a heavier sector than all the other sectors in the normal economy. Back complaints are very common in the care. It's bullshit that this is supposed to bring in 6,000 people. Then you have an extension of the size of the contract hours. I've been talking about that for a long time. The Minister won't even go into it. With regard to reducing the administrative burden, he says that you should be with the institutions. Why don't we start here in this house with lifting the whole indication circus and all the other stuff? Why doesn't the Minister deal with my contribution at all? I've finished each of those eight points. All he's doing here is repeating what's in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u211	I shall, of course, go into a number of concrete elements that Mrs Agema has put forward. I think there's been a misunderstanding here. The calculation examples contained in the programme should also be seen as such. Of that, you say they are measures. Then you say that this measure will not work in this way, of course. It's not a measure either. You can't announce that anyone with a smaller contract gets an hour. That is not the intention at all. With these calculation examples we wanted to point out that the task is insanely great, but it is feasible when we pull everything out of the closet. We have supported this with the calculation examples we have given. Then Mrs Agema takes those arithmetic examples and says that this measure will not work in this way. Nor is it intended to be a measure in this way. It's a math example. We have calculated what contribution that would make to reducing the deficit. That is, of course, macro but never at the level of an individual institution. I never said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u212	Very briefly finishing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u213	It doesn't make any sense. It doesn't even make any sense to macro. It doesn't make any sense at all! That model of calculation is what the Minister has been doing all these months. This is the calculation model that has to meet the deficit. If the Minister now says they're just math examples, he's just pulling his cunt. Then he joins in the words of the Central Planning Bureau that it is all out of the question. Then he agrees with all the arguments I have mentioned that nothing can be achieved. You can't say that all of a sudden they're just math examples when this is the plan? This is supposed to bring in 150,000 people. And then all of a sudden the Minister says, "Yes, but it's just a calculation example." You can't do that! You can't get 6,000 people into care by reducing absenteeism to the average of the entire economy. Care is a heavy sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u214	That's the point you made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u215	But I would also like to repeat those other points. I made it in term, and the Minister does not go into any point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u216	I give the floor to the Minister to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u217	I had arranged my answer so that I would talk first about the task, then about the monitoring and the approach and then about the different lines of action. I would like, of course, to touch on Mrs Agema's points. When it comes to the assumptions made in these calculation examples, the CPB has also found that they are just right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u218	Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. On a point of order, Mr President. The CPB has indicated that it cannot be calculated. The Minister's action plan has 64 pages. There's no wire transfer from the CPB. It's called an analysis, and it's got seven A4s, three of which are attached because it can't be calculated. I'm not gonna let this get to me, Mr. Chairman! The minister just drove a fake skate here!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u219	Well, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna keep going, aren't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u220	I note that at the same time the Minister has promised that he will come back to a number of points in his further reply. I also note that Mrs Bergkamp reported to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I still have a question about this monitoring, because that is what the interruptions were about. When the minister started a lot of programs, I had to get used to it, I'm telling you honestly. I thought of something at some point. What I remember from my time before the Chamber is that when you work with programs, with Prince and so on, you can at least follow what happens and at least see what results are there. When I read the action programme, I believe that a number of Members have said the same thing about it. There is a lot going on and we in the Chamber want to know what that will do, what will work and what will not. I hope that this Minister, having heard the Chamber, will be able to look again at the method of monitoring. Because I think it's a shame if we have every debate about this monitoring instead of just talking about how it goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u222	Good point. A fair point, too, I think. Twice a year when the Cabinet reports to the Chamber on this programme, we do so on the other programmes, too, it will be in a progress report on the measures we have taken and how far we are going with the actions we have planned. It will therefore be about the result, the social effect, the outcome, if you like, on the various indicators as I just outlined them. You know them, too. So we do that twice a year. That'll give you a grip. But at the same time, having heard the debate, I think there is something else going on. Many of the measures will be taken in the different regions. I'll get right to the approach. Since we are, of course, reporting on the broad lines here and on the social impact of the sum total of all the measures taken, it is difficult for your Chamber to get a grip on what is happening in the various regions. I think it is wise to include in the next progress report in the spring the reporting of the Committee on Working in Care, which we have set up to review the effectiveness of those plans in the region, so to include them in our reporting. So we will not be sending 28 reports in your direction, but we will have an impact on them and the conclusions you may draw from them. Then your Chamber can also keep its finger on the pulse at that point, so at the point of what happens in those regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u223	I appreciate that, on the basis of what he has heard, the Minister says that he wants to inform the Chamber more and better about that point. That's really good. There is something I fear a little bit, also looking at the input of the SGP and my own input. When the minister started as a minister he said: I want the older person in a nursing home to notice that the quality goes up. The same applies to this subject. Eventually, we don't want to see an inventory or a poll, everyone says: is there a urgency and we don't notice anything. That's the discussion. You have to find a solution to that in your monitoring. Otherwise, we can say that a lot is happening at regional level and that it is going well, but people do not yet experience it in practice. That's a challenge, you know, from macro to micro. Nevertheless, my question to the Minister is whether he would like to look again at this monitoring, at how we can overcome that gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u224	That is a very fair question. It's complicated, but it's a very fair question. You should be able to keep a finger on the wrist at all levels. So you need to know what measures have been taken and how far ahead we are with the planned actions, how far ahead we are with them. That's one. Two is that you need to know what the social impact of this is, so what people have noticed to say. It's not just about numbers. It's also about employee satisfaction. And the third is this. In each region the task is just a little different and the answer is also a little different in each region. It is precisely for this reason that you should also be aware of what specific measures are being taken in the region. At all three levels, I'd like to report to you. Mr Van der Staaij and yourself spoke of a sort of gap between policies and the experience in the workplace, or in the institutions. I don't like the word "workplace" by the way. Look, I don't mind people not knowing about a policy program. In fact, that really doesn't make them any less happy. Nor do I mind people not being able to list exactly what measures are being taken. What they have to notice is that there is more room on the work floor. Now I use that word: there is more room in the administrative burden, that there is now a colleague, where they used to have a vacancy for so long. That is what they need to see and that is what we need to measure in terms of social impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u225	I think we've been talking for half an hour about how we're going to measure what others should do. I hear the Minister say: administration has to solve the employer, wages have to solve the social partners, before assessing plans a national committee comes up, cooperation has to solve the regions. What I completely miss in all this is the responsibility of the three gentlemen here. We can, of course, do a great deal here to improve the situation in healthcare. By setting real rates, we can make care much more attractive and increase wages. We can reduce bureaucracy in institutions by changing the system. There's a minister here now who says we're never gonna change the system. But this is a responsibility that lies here. And that's not really in the plan, and it's not coming along now either. What are the gentlemen going to do to remove rules and make the sector more attractive?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u226	Of course, we discussed the program very extensively (Ont)Rule de Zorg with each other. In that programme, we have identified all sectors, and in every sector with the sector itself we have defined what should be deleted. Sometimes that is a rule on our side, sometimes that is a rule on the side of the institution, sometimes a rule on the side of the inspection, on the side of the NZa, et cetera, among all those actors. We have therefore described in detail, by sector, what measures we are taking in the near future and what we are deleting. We have also agreed with all these sectors: it cannot come from above alone, it will also have to come from below just to name what you encounter in an institution that does not come from outside. And what could you delete? In this connection, we have made a whole programme with I do not know how many measures. We will also monitor this closely, and we will show you carefully what happened to those measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u227	Thank you. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u228	Then the responsibility lies with another.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u229	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u230	My point is that, for example, you could say in the indications that we are simply not going to do it with the CIZ anymore. We could say: in the care packages, we're going to do it in a different way so that we don't need them anymore. That saves a lot of bureaucracy. We can make agreements here about the real rates in home care, in the Wmo. We can agree here that these rates are actually high enough, so that people earn a decent salary. In the field of youth care, there is now a major debate on the rates paid. We can arrange for normal rates to be paid in youth care so that people there can earn a decent living. There is now a great deal of misery and unrest in the sector. Those are all things that we can make arrangements about here today. I am very frustrated that the Minister knows very well how to let others do the work, but does nothing himself where he can intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u231	I really wonder if this is a fair representation. What have we done and do I do? All the tasks that we have, I actually deal with in a programmatic way, and we are in line with the concerns that people have. Then we provide them with a purpose. What purpose do you want to achieve? Then we take measures and then we monitor the effectiveness of these measures. We report on this to the Chamber twice a year. I do that by default with every programme, and we can have the debate on that every time. That means we're doing what's in our power. But that also means that I do not have the illusion that the concern, the society is a cookie factory where we could arrange everything here, from this room. Because that's just not the case. A lot of the experienced control pressure is actually conceived and executed at the level of an institution in that way. No one's gonna tell you that, but it's gonna happen anyway. That's the complicated part. If only it were so simple that you could throw a quarter in here and there was a rule less rolling out there. It just doesn't work that way. Nevertheless, you have to want to achieve that effect with each other. You can call me on that. You may appeal to me on all the actions I have to take, for example when it comes to the CIZ or the way in which I give an indication. If the method of indication is less bureaucratic, I am very much in favour of it. If you say "drop off the CIZ otherwise," I think that's unwise. That's really unwise. I can have the debate on this by example, by your proposal, but let us not pretend that everything is not being done here, that everything is being pulled out of the closet to get where you want to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u232	Very brief, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u233	The simplifications are now coming from the Minister: the cookie factory, as if we could throw a quarter in here. The minister is the one who decides which budgets go to the municipalities, which means that local rates are now paid too low. The minister is the one who can direct the dictate circus here. There are a lot of measures that can simply be declared by law here. There's nothing top-down about that; that's a relief from bureaucracy for a lot of people who really want to get rid of it. Those are measures we can take here. I don't see them in the plans, and I don't hear them now. I note that the Minister knows how to put others to work, but that, apart from that direction, there are no measures to be expected. That's just very disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u234	I thought the minister and I just understood each other when I brought in the ice skating, that it's important not only to know your lap times but also to know that you're on schedule, before you get to the finish line and then find out that you didn't make that world record. When I heard the Minister work out that after an interruption by one of my colleagues in a number of points where he was going to monitor, I thought: maybe we don't understand each other after all. Let me rephrase. If you're driving a car, it's good to know you're driving 70. But if there's a cop standing next to you, it's also important to know if you can take 50 or 80 on that road. So I actually need targets that will not be known until 2022 if we are going to save them, when the minister is already gone, but they are going to give us and the minister some insight on a number of important points: hey, this needs a tooth, it can be a bit less; it is not successful but it is. I'll have more leverage. Then I know: I drive 70, but do I drive too fast or can I drive that fast?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u235	I have just indicated that I actually have a set of indicators per action line and that I can show in every progress report by indicator what is the latest state of affairs at that time. These indicators do not so much have a target, because that would assume that it is from here to mention a target. My impression is that that gives mock precision to you, too. I think you want to know: is it going in the right direction? What you want to know is whether a sum of all these different indicators gives an idea of whether we are going in the right direction, whether we are actually bringing that objective closer or losing sight of it. That's exactly the way I want to set up monitoring in your direction. I would like to state exactly what the latest state of play is on all these indicators per line of action. Then I would like to make an explanation of that. Are you okay? Is it good enough or should it be better? Is the effectiveness of the measures sufficient or should it be improved? In addition, I just want to give an explanation of the sum total of the state of play. So I think I have not only understood your question correctly, but I also agree perfectly with you. That is the only way in which you, as well as me and the cabinet, can keep your finger on the wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u236	Mr. Kerstens, rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u237	What the Minister is saying now is very similar to what I said, so we seem to understand each other very well. I also understand that it's a little fluid and that when it comes to four years, you can't cut it into four equal blocks. But what if you want to bring that 125,000 to zero by 2022? We are going to talk later about why you are not setting a real hard target sooner, which we can really appeal to the Minister and what he can really take responsibility for. Doesn't the Minister think that if you take four steps in four years, you can call each of those four years a target number, a sort of overall number that at least gives everyone a start of an image that you need to have a meaningful discussion with each other about whether we should adjust or not? Because it is such a shame if we are all sitting here after the elections, of course, but the Minister is doing something else with his successor in 2022 to have a discussion, so 'yes we did not make it, because that was because then'. I want to be on top of it as short as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u238	I get it. I think I have just given you the answer to that question, namely: that is what we are going to do. Not only will we monitor the social impact on all these different indicators, we will also give you an explanation of the state of play in relation to the intended goal. The task now seems to be: heading towards a deficit of 100,000 to 125,000. The task is, of course, even greater, but we think we can achieve some of that in any case. Any progress report I will report on our latest state of mind on that deficit. I think I will do exactly what you want, namely to set a target per indicator and also to best be able to give a final insight into what the expected deficit will look like at that time, with the state of mind at that time. That is the reason for the effectiveness of the measures taken at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u239	In his explanatory statement, the Minister is now getting a little closer to the questions the Chamber has. As Mrs van den Berg rightly said, data is not the same as information. So this interpretation is very important. But, of course, it helps if we can identify the three main targets for each progress report or for each year on those three lines of action. Where do we want to be on these lines of action for a year or two years after we start the programme? This will help to strengthen the debate. Otherwise there's something about "yes, it's just how you interpret it." If we can simply determine with each other what the main targets per action line are now, it would make the conversation and control from the Chamber a lot easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u240	Yes. I get that. I would also like to think about how we can do this as well as possible, but I do not want to imagine any false reality. Step-by-step targets per indicator give exactly that false reality that I don't believe in, because it doesn't give you and me a real grip. I'll start with your question. I want to try to do it as well as possible, but only as long as it really makes sense and contributes to the answer to the question of whether we are doing the right things and whether we are doing things right. Are we on track?I don't know if that's an ice skating term to achieve the goals we end up aiming for? How far are we from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u241	I agree with the Minister. There's no point at all in getting per indicator... Because then you get a list, goals, and then it is indeed false reality. At the same time, this cabinet has the ultimate responsibility for all the plans being made in the regions. We will therefore have to aggregate it and, of course, we will be able to determine what steps we want to take in general terms a year. In fact, if you don't want to put that in the picture, you don't really want to know what's going on. I ask the Minister, not by indicator but by line of action: what are the main targets and how can we formulate them so that we can have a strong debate on them with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u242	Yeah, I'm okay with that. I think it is in line with a number of questions raised by various spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u243	I've had the impression since the skating metaphors launched that we're getting together on slippery ice. I'm just trying to get some hold of that. You're talking about indicators. Today we received all the answers for the budget; thank you for that. There you write that there were 42,424 re-enterers in 2017. If we see the figures for 2018 next year, shouldn't that at least have become more to feel like we're on steam? Isn't that how it's supposed to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u244	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u245	But then the basis of the zero measurement for that set of indicators could be that we will at least take the state of 2017 and from there keep an eye on the development? I'll take another one: absenteeism. That was 5.3% in 2017. Next year, hopefully, it will be much less than 5%. Then we see that progress is being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u246	This is exactly what I just explained. So these are not targets. Those are goals that end on there, or -er goals, where it becomes more or less. At that level, I can report it anyway. Of course, I'd like to say. But what I also think Mrs Ellemeet is asking is for targets to be set for the main indicators for each action line. So that is not for the whole list of indicators, because it makes no sense or makes no sense. To return to your example of the re-enterers: yes, of course there must be more. If there are fewer, at least that will not greatly contribute to the goal. But I can't tell if it should be there instead of 42,000, 45,000 or 48 000. That doesn't make any sense. So we are not going to set a target for this indicator, but we are going to set a target, so we are going to say that it has to be more. In addition, I would like to see whether I can give an indication for the main indicators, or perhaps you should call it 'target value' on the way to achieving that objective in order to get the total task as small as possible at the end of this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u247	Colleagues, I note that the first of three directors is now at the second of the five blocks. In order to respect the order but also your ability to get answers, I ask the Minister to complete his second block and then give the Chamber the opportunity to ask any further questions. Then we continue with the third block and at the end of it questions can be asked. And so on, and so on. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u248	I'll put a tooth on it as well in terms of tempo. The PVV asked if a national analysis could be made of the outflow. I would like to say a few things to that effect. The first thing is that the outflow is indeed very much too high. If you could do something about that outflow, you've already made a great contribution to solving the deficit. You're right to say that. An outflow of almost 10% per year is, of course, not normal. That's really not normal. That could really be better, and that would be a great contribution to resolving the deficit. I can now, of course, give you an explanation of what might be the reasons for this outflow. Part of it's about retirement. Part of it concerns dissatisfaction with the work. Partly it's about workload. Those are different ideas that I could give, but you will do the same yourself. In fact, I would find it interesting to know more precisely where this effluent comes from. I would therefore like to take this into account in the analyses we are going to carry out. Mr Hijink asked about regional disparities. I think I've responded to that. So we are now in the block about the monitoring, the approach and the support. I'm gonna skip all the introductions. I think that's what you want, isn't it? I shall begin with the questions that have been asked. We've been asked about the nurses. Is that profession also at the table, not only in the implementation of the plans, but also in deciding on them? The answer is yes. They are indeed very closely involved. They're just part of the country table. This applies to all professional groups, all inter-branch organisations and unions. Regional action plans also do so. How exactly that goes and which party is exactly at the table, I really leave it to the region. I'm not going to prescribe that, but people are welcome to join everywhere. Please. We need all the power of thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u249	I see that Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Van den Berg want to interrupt, but I had just thought that at the end of this second block we would be able to come up with any remaining questions. The Minister is going to finish the answer first. If there are any follow-up questions, you will have the opportunity to ask them after this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u250	A number of questions have been asked about its governance, particularly in relation to the burden of accountability. It has been asked: does this not lead to more accountability and more bureaucracy? For that, I would like to return to the previous conversation we had, because you want to know everything in that monitoring. On each indicator you would like to know exactly what it is like in each region. Me too, by the way. I recognize that propensity. At the same time, we do not want to create bureaucracy. You don't want to, and I don't want to. Looking for that balance you have to make the choices all the time. We have set up governance, I think, in such a way that we can get a grip on the proper implementation of the plans without creating a bureaucratic burden for staff in the care sector. I do not see where it could emerge from this establishment of governance. However, the Commission is going to work in the care sector in each region to see whether the labour market analysis has been properly carried out and whether the approach adopted in that region has been adequately analysed. Yes, it is. Of course. And yes, the funding is also linked to it. That's right. That's because you're probably asking me to. I would like good plans to be made in that region. That's what we've provided for. But I don't see how employees can get hurt. Mr Hijink asked to get started with good experiences. That's what that action-learning network has actually started to do. There is a great deal to learn from one region to another, but above all from one institution to another. This learning can take place within regions, but also beyond the borders of regions. That is precisely what we want to promote through that action learning network. Then there are the fragmented budgets and the responsibility for them. I understand that question very well, and I recognize it, because it is a rather pregnant question, particularly by institutions in the care of the elderly. This has everything to do with the fact that we are indeed looking from different perspectives at improving care for the elderly. We look at the perspective of the labour market, for example the Sector PlanPlus resources and the "Strong in your work" resources, but we also look at how we improve quality. We have had a whole debate about working with a quality budget. And indeed, we ask for a quality plan. This was already envisaged within the framework of the quality framework. But we ask for a quality plan so that the healthcare office can also assess whether this is an effective step towards meeting a higher bar. Unintentionally, but still, do employers in the care of the elderly just have a point when they see all these different flows of money side by side and say: do I have to answer for each money flow separately? Still, I don't think employees are necessarily affected by that. On the other hand: Any employer who has to employ an employee to answer for money is an employee who cannot be put into care. That's the way it is. I promised Actiz I'd be happy to talk to them about that. We've already thought for ourselves how we could do that. Reality will then be uncomfortable. For example, this has just to do with the fact that I would like to know what the Sector PlanPlus funds have yielded. I know it's 130,000 training courses. I'm glad to know. We can also split it up into the kind of employer and the like. We know a hell of a lot about it. What employers want most is that we add this to their macro budget so that they can do the good things with it. If we did, I wouldn't remember. I will never be able to answer the question in your direction again. The will to simplify it is there for sure. I'm gonna have that conversation, too. But on every arrangement, apart from the legal side, you have put that arrangement in motion, so you have to finish it that way too, there is also a responsibility towards your Chamber and at all in the direction of what we need to know about what is happening with public money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u251	Did the minister come to the end of this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u252	I am at the end of this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u253	At the end of the block, Mrs Ellemeet, you will again have the freedom to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u254	I'm still at the end of the block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u255	Look. There were a few colleagues who came forward. Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u256	My question was at the beginning of the block. Something special happened anyway. I don't know if people heard. The minister says: professionals are involved in the national programme. The Action Plan states that the focus of the approach is in the region. My question to the Minister was whether, when it comes to 'nothing about us without us', he does not also consider it important that there are professionals at the table when it comes to the regional action plan for tackling deficits. But the Minister says that he likes to leave that to the regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u257	Two questions have been asked. You weren't the only one who asked a question. I think Mrs Dik-Faber also asked a question. She asked if staff were involved in the national approach. In answer to her question, I say: yes, it is. Is this also the case in the region? Yes, in many ways that is the case. However, I am a little reluctant to prescribe to regions exactly who should be at the table before a plan is effective. I would like to take the general line: anyone who wishes to contribute to the solution is warmly invited. I think that's what regions are like. Should you encounter a club that does not come to the table in a region, I would say: let us know and we will be happy to contact that region.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u258	I think this is very special. We are talking all the time about the need for these worlds to come together; policies and the reality of people working at institutions and people's homes. Now I say to the Minister that I find that regional action plans in many situations do not have the professional at the table, not in the advisory sphere, not in the decision-making sphere. And then the minister says it's up to the region. I'm sorry, but I really don't like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u259	Nevertheless, I am going to explain why I say that. If I were to say that the V&VN should sit at the table in every region, that would mean 48 times a representation for the V&VN. That's one. Two is that I have to check whether in every region the V&VN has been at the table, and three is that they should not get started if not in every region the V&VN has been at the table. The V&VN is very big, so I think it will be managed. Do you understand that this is the background to that? At the same time, I say: you cannot make good plans or set them in motion without involving the employees. When I look at how the regions do this, employees in each region are involved in one way or another. Are all the employees' representatives everywhere, all the sections you could have for that, at that table? No, I don't think so, and I hope not, because otherwise you'll have a huge Polish country day.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u260	I just don't agree with that. The action plan states that the regions are the most important, because that is where the action plans are made. If I get a signal that professionals are not talking about the V&VN, but just about a nurse or caretaker are not sitting there to advise or in the decision-making process, but sometimes when it comes to the elaboration, what are we talking about? We're talking about bringing these realities together. These are people who actually experience the impact of certain measures, when it comes to career policies or workload. And about those people we would say: yes, it should not be Polish country day. That'll really break my nugget, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u261	Maybe I'm not explaining it properly. Of course, employees are involved and should be involved, not only in the executive sense, but also in the decision-making sense. Mrs. Dik-Faber asked about the national level. I answered that. They are represented there. For all the examples of regions I know, they are also simply represented. I should think that the policy should be: anyone who wants to contribute, whether national or regional, be warmly invited. But that is something other than imposing the obligation on the other side. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u262	Your difference of opinion is clear. Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u263	I also hear the Minister say that funding is linked to it. We had asked for a clear picture of where the need is and to link training places and funding to them. I'm really glad to hear that. I shall go on to the point raised by my colleague, Mr Bergkamp. The Minister says that everyone is welcome to join, but apparently some people are automatically at the table and the others should not fight but invite themselves. I find it odd that you didn't organize that for the professional, in whatever form, by default. I support Mr Bergkamp in that. It is something else when you are sitting at the table automatically or if everyone else is very welcome, as you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u264	It's a very short reaction. This is a programme which is initially an agreement between employers' organisations and educational organisations. They also think that your plans can only really make up for when the people who are involved have been well involved. And so this also happens sometimes when preparing plans, sometimes when deciding on those plans in a variety of ways. The professionals have been involved in all the examples of regional action plans I know. But I think you have an association, a foundation or a club on your retina that hasn't been hooked, even though you could. Therefore, my general line of policy would be that anyone who wants to participate in solutions is warmly invited. And the moment you speak to an association or club that says that it has not been invited or involved at all: let me know, and then I can see why that has not been the case in that region.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u265	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u266	Yeah, finishing up, 'cause I think we're gonna repeat ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u267	We're not gonna do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u268	It's gonna be a Polish country day or there's only a few who'll decide. So I do not think this is clear, but we have exchanged enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u269	Clear. There are many parliamentary instruments to come back to. I give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u270	Let's get back to the point of the different budgets and the accountability requirements. The Minister says: if you put it all in one rate, then we don't remember, and we still want to know what happens to the money. I agree with the Minister. My point is more that we do not want to create additional administrative burdens from the government through all these different budgets. So my question is basically: can we streamline that accountability as much as possible? So we still want to know what's going on with that budget, but let's organise it as smartly as possible, so that we don't all ask for accountability from the institutions in different ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u271	That is a very right point, and that is exactly the way I look at it. But it's tough business. I'd be happy to come back and tell you what's going to happen. I'm in intensive conversation with ActiZ, among other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u272	We've just spent a lot of time thinking about the monitoring. I also said in my introduction that monitoring is very important to me, but that it is ultimately about the staff and the people who receive care. They have to know the difference. That is also important to the Minister. That is precisely the reason why I think it is important that employees should be included in the plans. As Mrs Bergkamp said, I want to bridge the gap between policy and the structure that we have and the workplace. I, too, have all received signals that people just haven't noticed it on the workplace yet. And if the Minister says that he can join everyone, then I think that is an open invitation, but that also has something non-binding. Because things aren't always going well by themselves. And if the minister says that you can't dictate how that happens from the Lower House or the National Government, then my question is: how is he going to organize it? How does he plan to bridge the gap between policy and the workplace?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u273	I get that question. We have made the approach Working in Care with all representative organisations from professional associations, trade associations and so on. That was quite a lot of parties. Those are parties that are also represented in that national action table. I hesitate to force every region to produce a copy of the action table that is indeed the subject of many parties. Organizations don't get that manned at all. And it also causes you to make things very viscous, while we want action in the region. But your point is quite right, namely that we must ensure that people feel involved in solving an urgent issue. We do this, for example, when designing such a recruitment campaign. Hundreds of healthcare staff have been involved in designing, deciding and actually making it. So we actually do that with all the measures we take. My general attitude would therefore be: anyone who wants to move into a region, please come and carry along. And your question is how are you going to make sure that happens in every region. I just need to think about that, because I don't want to land in a checklist of you actually have that and that and that and that organization. You don't want to, but you want employees involved. I understand that question, and so does Mrs Bergkamp. Let me think about how I should do that. My point is that it is actually happening in all regions, but apparently you have other signals. Let's see how we can get closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u274	The Minister wants to chew on it. I understand. I do want to prevent all kinds of new institutions from happening now. For me it's just very important that the professional, the employee on the work floor, can think along, talk along and decide along, because that is ultimately the person who should notice the difference. So I would very much like to have a further reflection from the Minister. I don't know when we're gonna hear more about that. To be honest, I had a motion ready. I thought if I got a fine commitment from the minister, I wouldn't file it. But I'd like to help the Minister by tabling a motion. He can also try to convince me in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u275	I'm gonna try it in second term, or I might have to come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u276	I would just like to inform you that the second term of the Chamber precedes that of the Minister. The minister goes to his third block of the five. Then the other two rulers will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u277	That block is about the first line of action, choosing more for the care. I'll skip the introduction again and go straight to the questions. Can there be money for good supervision of new staff in care? That is precisely the purpose of the Sector PlanPlus resources. A total of 320 million is available for this. Sector PlanPlus offers the possibility to receive grants for practical or work counsellors. Of the training routes we have done so far, 130,000 have been requested in the first and second periods for nearly 22,000 work counsellors. That is what is being used to the full. Then to Mr Kerstens' question: could smaller branches, smaller employers' clubs, participate in such a region, or is it all for the big boys? Indeed, we are now finding that it is easier for larger employers in particular to take part in this than smaller employers. Of course, that makes sense. But that is precisely why we want to work with those smaller employers. Of course, you always look at the impact of measures. One general practitioner is on his own again, but you could, for example, apply together with a group. It's just trying to figure out how to support that, but that's exactly what we want to do. So I would like to say that to Mr Kerstens. Then the condition of good employership. Yes, good employership is extremely important, but if you're going to make that a condition for eligibility for subsidies and schemes, you're going to end up back in the peat circus that we want to stay out of. Because how would you put that into words? How would you check for eligibility? How many peats do you need to qualify for a grant? That's incredibly difficult. Of course, good employership is the conversation of the day, with employers and between employers. It's just a matter of necessity. This is the time to be a good employer, because otherwise you're just gonna lose it and you're not gonna make it, especially at this time. Then there is the question of the Christian Union. Mrs Dik-Faber asked a question about the use of the Sector PlanPlus funds, the 320 million. She asked if it was true that 260 million of these were available for nursing care. That's right. That distribution comes from the 2.1 billion. A kind of calculation was then made for what you would need additional resources to get there. That's the background to that division. Of the 320 million, 260 million is therefore intended for nursing care. Then I come to a question from Mrs Dik-Faber: how are health care institutions supported so that they have sufficient time and resources to assist trainees? I have just given that answer in the direction of Mr Hijink. Within Sector PlanPlus, that money is available. A full grant has already been applied for for work counsellors. That's what the money's for. Then there is the question of whether the resources for the promotion of expertise are actually being used, despite the red tape. I hear a bit about red tape, but the funds are even being transferred. In other words, for the second period 10 million more training courses have been applied for. We were lucky to be able to honor them. But that means another 10 million more. The first period was also fully overwritten. We were able to honour that, too. So my impression is that it is being used to the full. Mr De Lange spoke about the master-companied construction. How can you use experienced staff to guide young people and make sure that they get the time and perhaps also an accompanying bonus? There are two ways to do that. The first is that the resources of Sector PlanPlus will be used to improve internship guidance for new people. This includes an accompanying bonus. That's not standard. If one chooses to do so, it is possible. So it also happens that people get something extra when they are willing to accompany someone besides their regular work. In addition, Sector PlanPlus can also be used to train experienced employees to become practical or work counsellor, so that even better internship guidance can be provided. So that's what's happening. Clear framework conditions have been laid down when making the funds available. Which ones are they and how do they get back? Within Sector PlanPlus, the applicant employers are required to participate in the Regional Action Plan Approach Deficiencies, and thus also to be able to respond to the results in the region, and to contribute to shaping these results. From the second period onwards, i.e. from the period we are now in, 25% of that budget will only be made available under the condition of sufficient progress of that RATE. The Committee on Working in Care, which is about to start, will assess whether there is sufficient progress in the region, whether the analysis is good and whether they are doing what they have said they are going to do. Only then will the last 25% be transferred. We would actually like to do that again in the next period. There is another question from Mrs Ellemeet. She asked if there is sufficient attention for people in care who want to train without this leading to a higher position. Those Sector PlanPlus resources are also widely used for this purpose. So it's not just about schools that can do that, but that doesn't have to be about all kinds of modules that one could do, but also about qualifying courses and also about short-term or long-term trainings. So anything is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u278	I'd like to come back to Sector PlanPlus. Indeed, 320 million is available for training pathways. Not everything has yet been finalized. Is it possible to move in here, so that the money also goes to the place where we really need it most, so that we can bring supply and demand together properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u279	That's not easy, because those resources are related to nursing care. They are also agreed on a national basis in this way, including with the nursing home sector. So it's not easy to change that nationwide arrangement. At the same time, I see the point. Because where there are still plenty of Sector PlanPlus resources available for nursing care, this is not the case for the other sectors. This is not a new issue, and we knew that when we set it up and started it. Then I would have to talk to the employers to see if they are prepared to do so. But I do have some hesitation in that, because of course I did make the appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u280	I understand the Minister's point. At the same time, I think it is extremely important that we put the money where it is most needed. I am going to chew on this and I will probably come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u281	I had a feeling the minister was finishing up a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u282	Yeah, this cube.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u283	This was block three. He's about to go to block four and then there's another block five. And then the other two rulers will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u284	Thank you for the answers. Thanks for the look on the accompanying bonus. This makes it clear that in a number of areas Sector PlanPlus is at least starting to work for care, as the Minister also points out. If that is the situation and we are putting energy into those projects that work, then it is very good to start that conversation and to look at how you can achieve it, so that you can get more internships and so that experienced people can do more in the guidance and can also find appreciation? Wouldn't it be a shame if we dropped those odds?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u285	Yeah, absolutely. That's why we're funding it through the Sector PlanPlus funds. What we are also doing in the framework of that action learning network is bringing the good examples to the attention of others. But it's more than just bringing it to the attention of the public. From a sort of mission drive, this type of example is brought to the attention of other providers with a similar problem. This is also a role of the Working in Care Committee. It comes to all regions to see how the implementation takes place. Someone within the action-learning network will then start working on those things that are also worth picking up in other regions. It depends a little on what exactly the example is, but it is in an active way, to ensure that anyone else who has a similar issue can see how it can work in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u286	Furthermore, you indicated that you are actually building something: to deliver 25% after promised services.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u287	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u288	Does that also mean that if those services are not provided, that part will not be paid out so that it can be used for other projects? That's the question. If it really turns out that this service is not being provided, will the 75% that has already been delivered be looked at again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u289	I'm afraid if I'm gonna fill all that up with conditions, employers are gonna think, "Oh, keep that money, I'm gonna do it without it." That would be a very shame, because then you will not achieve that regional cooperation. So it's a little more light than you're saying right now. You don't return the 25% to the end until sufficient progress has been made. If insufficient progress has been made, progress will have to be made before it comes to payment. If you said, "You won't get it anymore," that would really look like punishment. But you don't get it until you've shown that you've actually made that progress. That's actually how I see it. That's how it's gonna work. If I made that 75% conditionally available, I fear that there will simply be no more applications. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to the fourth block. That's the block of terms and conditions. Quite a lot has been said about this and asked a little less about it. I think it is important to share with you that working conditions are of course extremely relevant and that they are very important for people in the sector. Of course, people may not choose money if they choose to care, but you just want to be able to make a normal living with it. Working conditions are discussed between employers and employees. It is not the first time that this has been the position of the cabinet and of the majority of your political groups. Because that's just the way it is. That is the place where working conditions are set. At the same time, it is up to the cabinet to create the framework conditions for good employership. Among others, Mr Kerstens has already dropped that term. That's the way things are. I think that's how we should have that conversation. That's what we had at the AO last week. That is what we have, I think, for some time in the coming years too, for example next week in the budget, because the budget is talking about a substantial additional availability of funds for care in the coming period. I deliberately put it this way. These resources have been established on the basis of the estimates. Based on these estimates, the number of employees you need has been calculated. Next year it's about plus 5 billion, which is available for care. About half of these are available for wage and price adjustment. Only for the adjustment of wages and salaries, so I'm gonna leave the adjustment off for a little while. Next year, 1.7 billion out of that 5 billion will be available. That is the prerequisite that the cabinet has to create, I say to Mr Hijink in particular, for employers to be a good employer. What do employers do? Inside, they conclude collective agreements with employees. We're not sitting at that table, and we don't want to sit there. What we do have to do is to ensure that the indexation of expenditure enables employers to be a good employer. You can see from time to time that nice collective agreements are concluded, but this is done within the space available. Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks asked more specifically about this, and Mr Hijink also asked: how do you improve working conditions? Well, that's it. In fact, this is not new either, because in the healthcare sector, the indexation of budgets always applies in this way. You look at what wages are in the market and count on additional availability of budget in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u290	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u291	Are you at the end of this block, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u292	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u293	We agreed to do the interruptions at the end of the blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u294	Mr Kerstens has also asked this question. It's a bit of a similar question, so maybe I should take it together. The SGP had asked whether it is not very strange that, if you want to take an education, you are discouraged because your salary is frozen. We regularly look at what exactly is in the care-cao, but this agreement did not occur to us as an agreement from the collective agreement. I suspect that this has apparently been an agreement made internally in an institution. I very much agree with you that this does not seem to me to be the best incentive to go to training. I don't really know what the background to this appointment is, but if you can locate a little more precisely where this seems to be taking place, I'd like to find out. But I don't recognize it. Nor do I think it would be wise for such agreements to be made. But of course, I don't want to sit on someone else's chair. The SP asked about competing on terms of employment, for example with a higher salary. Is that what's happening? I don't think so. Sometimes I see it happen. I always think: lucky that we have this regional approach. Because in one region, there is an extremely strong response from other employers. Of course, that's how you make it impossible to work. One employer has a little more financial space to do something above the collective agreement. You shouldn't want that to be a huge race, because that's a race that can't be kept up and could ultimately lead the continuity and quality of care. That is why it is not for nothing that we in this country work with collective agreements and that we declare them generally binding. This is a very important way of preventing both a race to the top and a race to the bottom and creating a level playing field when it comes to working conditions. Then there is the comparison with the salary in education that has been made. I have not been able to get it exactly between the first and second periods, but the first picture I see is a different one from that of Mrs Agema. At the starting salary we see a difference of about €200 per month. If you add the irregularity payment to that, then that difference is already gone, but I think it would be wise to put that more precisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u295	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u296	We'll have the minister finish the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u297	Excuse me. I did provoke this, too, by dropping such a dominant break. I think I have answered the questions within this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u298	Mr Hijink and Mrs Agema have come forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u299	We have just talked about the framework conditions that the cabinet should create for good employership. We were just talking about the social domain, the municipality, but of course also about insurers. One difficulty I also see is the agreements made in the main agreements. If it is now said that we are going to increase the budget for hospitals by 0% in 2022, this will of course have an impact on working conditions or employment in that sector. The question is whether the cabinet is already taking these kinds of considerations. Will we see the impact on hospital care, for example, of such a broad agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u300	I think Mr Bruins should respond to the specific questions about the main agreement and medical specialist care, but in general, there are different movements in the increase in the budget. When it comes to volume increases, for example that you expect a higher concern demand, then... Terrible words when it comes to care, by the way, but you know what I mean. When it comes to a higher demand for care, it is linked to a budget development that provides for being able to meet that demand. That is part of the 16.7 billion, I believe, that will be at the top of the 2017 budget during this cabinet period. The budgetary increase can therefore partly be explained by volume development. But for the most part, i.e. a little more than half, it can be explained from the wage adjustment and price adjustment. So even if budgetary development in the volume is zero, the budget for the same hospitals is still increasing in order to meet the human obligations that one has. The basis for this is the oval covenant, which I believe has already been concluded in the 1990s. The agreement has been made that market developments in wages can always be monitored in the care sector. The government thus allows employers to continue to monitor this market development.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u301	I enter the plenary room only with facts. I don't have any reason to exaggerate. The Minister says here: "What Mrs Agema says about the difference of €700... It's over €200!" Now that would be a lot, but I find it very annoying because once again: I enter the plenary room only with facts in the pocket. What I compared is the salary of an HBO nurse and that starts in hospitals from €1.730 net per month, so the F. That is pay scale 35 and the difference with a teacher in primary education is then €771 gross. In the case of wage scale 40, the difference is €742 gross and in the case of wage scale 45, the difference is gross €419. I would have liked to have said that, Mr President. I do not know what comparison the Minister made, but even over €200 a month seems to me to be a very big hole. It seems to me to be the same kind of students: one goes to the pabo and the other goes to HBO nursing. If you end up with such a big difference, then it's really hard to digest and it doesn't help to take more people into care. This is also the difference at the start. The difference is only getting bigger! I think there is a very big task there, which you do not just solve by saying: the salary adjustment will be EUR 1.1 billion next year. Then we're talking 4%, but these holes are much bigger. If you want to make care more attractive, then the cabinet must also account for this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u302	Between the first term of the Chamber and the first term of the Cabinet, I looked into what I could achieve in relation to this question. You'd think it's a very simple question and you just have to keep two tables side by side. But that is not exactly the case, because the number of professions in the care sector and its scaling-up is many times more varied than that of a teacher in primary education. The starting salary of a primary school teacher is just LA, step 1. This is just a bit different in the care because different nurses are subject to different starting salaries. But if I just look at the initial salary and the starting salary, our calculations result in a difference of about €200. But if you add the irregularity supplement to that, that difference would actually no longer be there. However, I can imagine that I would simply present to Mrs Agema what is to be seen in order to see if we can make a good comparison. Then I can just let her know on paper how we see it and then maybe we can continue the debate on that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u303	I hear a promise. Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u304	I didn't start by comparing it to the vvt sector. I'm talking pay grade 35 in the hospitals. If you compare it with the teacher's initial salary in primary education, you'll get to a difference of €771, or of €742 if you start a step higher. The difference with the vvt sector is small, but I still think €225 gross is a very big difference. So the Minister doesn't have to take a look at what I just have on the table. That's really weird. What I would expect the Minister to do earlier is to think with his cabinet about whether, if you want to make care more attractive, you should let this kind of big differences exist, especially as the difference increases as people are longer teachers in primary education or work longer in care. The difference is getting bigger and bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u305	This, too, depends very much on the career path that is going on. So that's not so easy to say, hence my offer to see if we can compare apples to apples. If you say, "Please don't make that commitment, I'm not gonna do it."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u306	That's how I understood it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u307	Moreover, what I have just said about this is how we enable employers to be a good employer. I think the deal's a good deal. I'll get back to my block five.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u308	Well, well, well. The rest of the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u309	Well, what's the rest of it? "Varia," I'd like to say. That sounds so much more friendly than "rest." It begins with a question from Mr Van der Staaij. Would it be possible to use these additional resources for the quality of nursing home care also to address the workload for the specialist on old-age medicine? The signals that the availability of SOGs is under pressure are known. This is due, among other things, to the implementation of night, evening and weekend services. What we do first, because it has happened too little in recent years, is to train people. But of course that is not enough to take care of now. That is a solution for the future. We also see that there are a lot of initiatives in the regions to coordinate the efforts of SOGs, GPs and nursing specialists, especially in the evening and weekend services. It is important to really tackle this problem in the region. That is what we are following, and additional resources are available for this, namely through the transition means for the introduction of the quality framework. So it's going a little different from that plus 600 million next year, but there are extra resources available for it and they're already being used in different regions. How do we prevent, Mr Van der Staaij, health offices and insurers with all kinds of new demands from creating more bureaucracy again? He referred a bit to the use of quality resources for next year. And it is true that we are indeed imposing a number of requirements on that. For example, we want people to be hired by these means, because they have been made available for this purpose. We want to see what steps an institution is taking on the way to the quality level set out in the quality framework. On the contrary, I like the fact that care agencies take on the role of purchasing content. If institutions only experience this as bureaucracy, then we are not doing something quite right. I agree with you very much. But I also see a lot of institutions that find it valuable to step by step to increase quality, and which also think it logical that society wants to see what we have done, because there is so much extra money going there. It's always about that balance we just described. In addition, we are, of course, working hard to tackle bureaucracy, including bureaucracy and the procurement process. And we're just gonna keep on doing that. If you have a rule that you would like to put a line through tomorrow, I would also like to recommend it. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u310	I have a brief question about the responsibility which the Minister would like to give at the end of the cabinet period. Some Members have already said at the beginning of the debate that they do not think it is realistic and that they do not think it is going to work. Can the Minister state as concrete as possible when he is satisfied with the progress at the end of this cabinet period?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u311	I have already said a number of things about this. The first is that our ambition must be to ensure that the deficit is as close to zero as possible. There's no other way. At the same time, you know the forecasts, even for the longer term. Mrs Ellemeet drew attention to this. This means that we really need to pull everything and everything out of the closet to ensure that we keep the number of vacancies as close to zero as possible. The fact that there are vacancies should not cause immediate unrest. Most will be fulfilled. This has also been the case in the past year. I'm sure you will. Only there's a moment when you're gonna notice there's a shortage. In fact, you have all mentioned in your contributions examples of times when that deficit is noticeable. What I want is this. I go back to the way Mr Van der Staaij put it. By the way, many of you have expressed it. You yourself put it that way. I would like us to be able to say to each other in 2021: we really did everything we could to get that deficit as close to zero as possible. That is what I want to say to myself, and that is what we want to be able to say to ourselves. Are you sure you're gonna be okay? The world is a little too insecure for that. I'm not gonna give any guarantees here, 'cause I think they belong more to a fridge. I want me to do everything I can by then to ensure that the deficit is as close to zero as possible. It is nice if you keep us on a regular basis by conducting the debate several times a year on the basis of the sharpest possible representation of reality, as we have just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u312	For the record: I don't want to pin the Minister on a number and say in 2021: ha, ha, it didn't work out, you haven't done it well all these four years. I understand the answer and certainly the last part of it so that the Minister takes the Chamber very seriously. As the journey goes, we have to work together, even if the initiative comes from the Chamber, on the basis of the monitoring that we have talked about, see if there is a possibility of adjusting, or if there is a need to step in, or if there is a need for a different route. This is also part of the process of finding that we have all done everything we can to reduce these deficits.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u313	Of course, because it is not only the cabinet's biggest task for the coming years, but it is also the largest task for the Chamber for the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u314	Thank you, Minister. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments. Then we'll continue with the Minister of Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u315	And Sports.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u316	I will resume the meeting and give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u317	Thank you, Mr President. I will say a few words about lines 2 and 3 of the programme, but I should like to concentrate on the various questions that have been put to me. Let me make a preliminary remark. Better learning in care is included in the action programme, but what I also think is important is that this issue should be reflected in major agreements on several points, for example on capacity planning in the years to come. So it's not just a part of us here, but it's also discussed and agreed on in the hospital sector and the nursing home sector, for example. We do not have the solution to some of the issues yet either. On the one hand, when it comes to better education in health care, we have found that there are no national deficits for medical specialists, as well as for general practitioners, but on the other hand we note that in some regions Mrs Van den Berg has pointed out, among other things, and Mr De Lange is also struggling to fill vacancies. On both points, the general practitioners and the medical specialists, let us now look at what this is all about. I hope that at the end of the year I will have a result for both groups on the basis of which we can take more concrete measures. Also belongs to Better Learning in the care that we have sufficient budget for re-training, retraining and post-schooling of employees, so that they stay in care. That is what we want, of course, that people do not flow out, but that they see enough challenge and enthusiasm to continue working in healthcare. Before that there was already the Grant Scheme quality impulse staff hospital care. That was an existing arrangement and it has been reinvested for the coming years. It is also anchored in key agreements. It's filled with 200 million. You may have noticed that this arrangement has been pending in the Chamber since 20 September. So these are a few examples that contribute to better learning in healthcare. I say this in this way, because I feel a bit addressed by Mr Hijink, who asks: what are you actually doing on the part of the Empire? I think it's good to set these conditions from the Empire. Then for both rail 2 and rail 3 I am now talking about rail 2, that better learning in health care is that a number of indicators have been made in the plan. Not much. In the case of better learning in care, there are four: study efficiency, practical placements, numbers of employees who have received training in recent years and the quality of internships. These are four indicators that we have devised on track 2. I am quite prepared, in response to Mr Kerstens, to see if we can tell each year in which direction that should move. I'm not sure that'll provide any useful information, but I can give it a shot. For example, internships. We see that in recent years the number of internships has grown, fortunately. So the last two years of school. Not yet this year, because we do not know that on the basis of the action plan. But in the last two years the number of internships has grown, mbo and hbo: 5,000 internships. I would like that upward trend to continue in 2019. If I may put it that way, I dare to make a guiding statement for those four different indicators. The one about learning better in health care. I'm gonna answer all the different questions later. One more comment about Working differently in health care, that's track 3. I find that much harder. Otherwise working in care is really a multitude of activities, in which we Mr De Jonge has argued in detail that much of the question of the region. There is a good idea somewhere in the Netherlands and why isn't it used elsewhere? One of you spoke this evening about a complex picture on page 23 of the action programme, in which the regional action plans with these deficits are presented with all kinds of other clubs and groups around them. If I translate it into my own words, it is no different that we want the regions that work for that other thing to think of. Perhaps we ourselves have a good idea, but most of it really comes from the region, and that we are looking for an expert, a superexpert, or call it an ambassador, which is the word used in the action programme to see if you can do copy-paste for other regions. I'll give you one example, about job carving. We'll talk about that later. Jobcarving is a good example in the Slotervaart hospital. There, a few dozen people with a large distance from the labour market get a job in the supportive atmosphere of the hospital. To be honest, I am surprised that this example has been followed so little. I would like us to say to other regions with a superexpert who does "walk the talk": look, it's really possible, but you have to have sister and stuff and this and that. So that is not a very paper reality, and that must really be practical. And frankly, it's a lot harder to monitor. But we also mentioned five indicators in the action plan, namely reducing absenteeism, measuring the workload, outflow from the healthcare sector, contract size, so part-time work, and making use of innovation and technology. So that's five indicators. Of course, you can never measure all the results of all the regions, but we have thought that they are indicators that you can measure. Before anyone in the Chamber would smack their hands in front of their eyes, I say: if there is still a need in the Chamber to add another indicator, I would like to hear it. We should not add another hundred indicators, but one or two can. Or perhaps someone in the Chamber will say: perhaps you can make some changes in the definition of the existing indicators. I'd love to hear that. Because these are the indicators, so we are going to go along with them for the years to come. And if anyone says something else has to be added, or something else has to be done, then I would like to know. So that's an invitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u318	Mrs Van den Berg reported to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u319	I don't know if we should wait until the end of a block or something, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u320	I myself am struggling with that because I am not quite clear in how many cubes the Minister is going to answer. There are two lines of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u321	Well, colleague De Jonge had two hours for it, so I'm assuming I have two hours, too. No, Mr President, I just wanted to visit the various speakers later on with the questions that have been asked to me. Mr De Jonge has already answered a lot, so I just want to try to finish it by speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u322	If you go to the speakers, I think that after this introduction and the possible interruptions connected with it, we will just leave the interruptions per speaker until the Minister answers the questions of another speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u323	So much for my introduction, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u324	Indeed, I have a question concerning the first part of the Minister's introduction. He said that one of the indicators is also education, schooling or post-schooling. For me, it is not entirely clear whether he is referring only to the training which is being carried out at the request of employers. Or can we also see what happened at the employee's initiative or at the employee's request? I think that was also the subject of the discussion we had this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u325	This is where the first misunderstanding begins, because this is not one of the indicators I mentioned. The five indicators are set out in the Annex to the Action Programme. Those who are most in line with Mrs van den Berg's question may be the number of employees who have been in training in recent years. Or the quality of the internships? Perhaps Mrs van den Berg should clarify exactly what she wanted to ask the question about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u326	Now I'm sorry I didn't come forward earlier. The Minister said at one point: we can therefore identify how many people are undergoing training, further training or continuing training. He also said that there was still a pending procedure. In this context, I was wondering whether there was any difference between what happened at the employer's request and what happened at the employee's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u327	That's a good question. Then I should actually look up that quality impulse staff hospital care, that veil at your room. I think it is at the employer's request. But whether employees' wishes have also been taken into account, I have to check.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u328	In fact, I think that one of the issues that has been raised this evening is that employees should also be given some room for that training, precisely to make it attractive to work in healthcare. So I wanted to give you that as a point of interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u329	Mr. De Lange.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u330	The Minister actually points out that we have set these indicators. And he also poses a challenge: we have defined them, but if the Chamber still has certain ideas about them, then we are happy to hear them. I would like to ask a very practical question, as far as I am concerned, about the indicators for the three blocks. Wouldn't it be an idea to get another letter from the cabinet on how to define these indicators so that the Chamber can take a closer look at them? Then we will see whether we think that is the right definitions or that things should be added, so that we can give that back to you at some point. When we talk about that set in spring, we all have the same good feeling that we're sending on something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u331	My sidekick and I are just looking for the date, but this letter is in your possession. We have sent you a rather comprehensive letter on the indicators I have just mentioned. I thought that was October 4th. It contains the definitions and also the measurements of the last two years. So we don't start somewhere in the gray field. For example, the development of internships can already be seen in the past two years. I hear from my colleague that the letter was indeed from 4 October, as I said by heart. That letter is there, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u332	Clear; that's right. I know we had a letter. But I don't think we're talking indicators for two hours for nothing. It does differ from the letter which will eventually become the final set, on the basis of which that progress will be made. At least there is some doubt about that. If you say, "No, as far as we are concerned, this is the offer and then give us what you think, Room," that is clear as well. But you were just suggesting something else, which is...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u333	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u334	...that there would still be the possibility to give more context.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u335	No, I really don't think you should say that about your own plan, of course, that we didn't rely on dozens of indicators. We have made a handful of them per action plan. We believe that we can get the best possible and measurable indicators for this, with different sources being distinguished. If you say there's something else that needs to be added or, on the other hand, that an indicator doesn't interest you, I'd like to hear it and we'll record that glove. Then we'll see if we can improve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u336	I am starting to get a bit dark, because the plans about working differently have to be implemented in the region and then there are people who need to communicate between those regions. Take, for example, reducing absenteeism to an average of the whole economy. If this is not possible in one region, it will of course not be possible in the other. In one region you have no heavier care with heavier back problems than in the other region. The same applies to labour-saving technology. What's the name of that megalomaniac hospital with those robots who had to split sheets and then, "beep, beep, beep" banging into the door all the time? That is the case in another region. If the TVphone fails in one region, the same is true in the other region. Can the Minister just explain why he chose this approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u337	Yeah, I guess so. We are going to spend a lot of money on internship counselling, for example. So we also want the number of internships to keep up. This training fund is intended for health care institutions, to ensure that these traineeships can actually be organised and that this guidance is in order. Then I find such an indicator very useful. It is indeed aggregated. This is what we can offer you on a national level. That's how these indicators are put together. So maybe there is work pressure in one region and there is work pressure in the other region, but I hope, for example, by using these quality equipment, that it will produce results in the years to come, that there will be an effect on people who are stuck in their current job in care and would like to go to another job in care, namely that fewer people are pouring out. That is my hope and expectation and that is why we have chosen these indicators.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u338	I don't hear an answer to my question. I asked why all this needs to be thought of in regional plans. Why do these regions need to communicate with each other? If business doesn't work, they don't work. If the robots in Limburg don't do it, they don't do it in North Holland.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u339	It could be. But it could be the other way around. I have just mentioned the example of the Slotervaart hospital. Somewhere, people with a great distance from the labour market are being employed. I think that's a nice thought. That's not "efkes," it's been happening for years. I think it would be a good idea if other regions were to consider whether it could not be used there as well. You're gonna need an ambassador for that. Because of course it hasn't happened in the last few years. Then I ask myself the question: how can we contribute in a practical way to seeing if such an initiative that increases flexibility in care also pays off in hospitals other than Slotervaart?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u340	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u341	I would like to try to answer some of the questions that have been asked. First, Mrs Agema's question about vmbo-schollers who are not admitted to health education. Mrs Agema's question was: can the Minister find out how it is that vmbo-scholiers have not been admitted to health education? All I can do right now is take a swing at it. I need to know what the pre-training of those VMBO scholars has been so that I know which initial qualifications they have. So if I could hear some names and numbers here, I'd like to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u342	You don't have to, because it's not about names and numbers. The cabinet even talks about picking status holders off the streets, while at the same time we have vmbo scholiers who have a diploma but do not have the right diploma to be admitted to MBO care training. I think that's weird. Why don't you make that broader? My question to the Minister is: will he find out, find out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u343	I'd love to, but I need to know what kind of VMBO scholastics are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u344	I don't mean specifically at all. I don't mean one person, I mean in general. You have a number of vmbo directions and a number of levels. At some point, you're gonna have that diploma in your pocket. Not all diplomas give access to mbo-training care. So that's about your admission. At the same time, we bring people into care without any training. Even status holders need to be recruited.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u345	But the question was about those vmbo scholiers. I'd like to know. If a vmbo-scholier has such a start-up qualification, a follow-up training in care should not be a problem. Maybe Mbo-4 is still too high and it should be Mbo-3.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u346	I don't mean names or numbers, I don't mean specific people. You have a VMBO diploma and one VMBO diploma does give access to MBO care and the other does not, while at the same time unskilled people are recruited. That's what I'm talking about. Then the admission may not be entirely right or up-to-date, or perhaps there should be more possibilities. Maybe the Minister can take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u347	I think I've said it three times. I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u348	That's a promise, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u349	That was the question Mrs Agema asked me. The question that Mrs Bergkamp asked was about the part-time factor that was already at 0.73 ten years ago. Mrs Bergkamp said: if that part-time factor had risen a little bit, that would probably have happened. We have also written such examples in our action programme by way of example. The big issue here is that the employers are in the lead. I would very much like employers with employees, who must feel free to point that out towards their employer, to see what it takes to work more. So it is an appeal to the employers, but I would also very much like it not to be over-organized and that we get practical examples, also from employees. That's not what I'm saying. It's only a scarce good, but we've also seen a few examples of people working a few hours a week in the emergency room and a couple of hours on the ambulance. That's for two different employers. I'm fine with that. Better yet, I love that. But that kind of development doesn't happen on its own. That is why we also have in mind this superexpert who can point out to one region what works in another region and whatever might work there. That seems to me to be the most practical way of doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u350	I am pleased that the Minister acknowledges that more is needed to prevent us from finding the same thing again in ten years' time. The minister's coming with the superexpert. I share with the Minister that you also have the responsibility of the institution itself, but how can we ensure that this cabinet makes a very clear appeal to the employers in the Netherlands to encourage an environment in which you can indicate in all transparency that you simply want to work a few hours more, as the Minister says, and that you will also be given an answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u351	Let me refer again to page 23 of our action programme. It's got that action-learning network with that ambassador, that superexpert. I believe that it should actively encourage the employer to see how to seduce people into a higher part-time factor. It's a lot of jargon. I'm sorry about that. On the other hand, we must ensure that employers take an inviting attitude towards people who find it interesting and who want to work more. Because one thing I know for sure: if we do it and say, "well, everybody else two hours a week," that doesn't bear fruit. I've tried to put it that way in a meeting, but of course you only get questions like "Mr. Bruins, do you know how much need has risen in care?" So I really need that region and I also need an expert to move it forward. That's not to kill us, but because I think it works better with that employer in that region.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u352	That's why I just told the other minister that I think it's so important that that care professional is at the table. That's why I made that plea. But on this particular point: how is this minister going to keep his finger on the wrist? Is he talking to that superexpert to follow up on whether that part-time factor is going up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u353	Oh, yeah. We're gonna appoint that action-learning network with the ambassador that goes with it. I will make it very clear that this approach to the employer and the active attitude of the employer are important in this respect. Mr. Chairman. Then there's a question about the in-service nurses. There's a commission on that. That is the Commission for the Evaluation of Nursing Training. That committee had to produce a report by the end of this year. She looks at a number of further training nurses to assess them for equivalence with the HBO profile. That committee is working hard, but it is also a lot of work. I think that committee has completed its work at the beginning of 2019, not at the end of this year, as I would have liked to have done, and also in the direction of the committee. In fact, I had thought: to finish 30 November and in a month to arrange for clarity to be given in the sector, so that everyone at the annual border on 1 January knows exactly where they stand. But mapping the different HBO training profiles and assessing the equivalence is monks' work. The committee has indicated that it just needs a little more time, so that will be early 2019. Let's see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u354	Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u355	Your voice is also getting higher, I see, Mr. Chairman. The minister says, unfortunately, it's monks' work. My question to him is: where exactly is the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u356	A number of further training nurses should be assessed on the basis of equivalence with the old HBO training profile. So that's simply what it is, or actually not so simple in comparing the practical situation of the inservice nurses with that old HBO training profile. That's a lot of work. That's very detailed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u357	But there was already an investigation in which I think a lot has already been inventoried. That wasn't concrete enough. Can I ask the Minister what he specifically expects and can I say myself that I do not hope that we will discourage the people who have worked for a very long time at a certain level? I hope that the Minister agrees with me that we should ultimately avoid this, regardless of the outcome of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u358	Of course I don't want to discourage anyone, but I also want to be precise, because this is not a one-size-fits-all solution. I expect something to be made of a transitional arrangement. That's just to keep the stimulus in. But it's exactly the job. I would very much like Mrs Bergkamp to have completed that this year, but the committee has informed me that this is not expected to work. Then it will be early 2019. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mrs Bergkamp's question about using people with a greater distance from the labour market. Actually, I answered it on the basis of the Slotervaart example. Mr. Chairman. Mr Hijink spoke about the preservation of young people for care. He also talked about how to keep older people in care. When it comes to young people, I think we have the best chance, for example, through good training and good internships. Here is another practical example that I heard from Groningen, namely to set up a chain tage. In doing so, you follow a patient through different healthcare settings that the patient has to deal with. As a younger professional in healthcare, you can follow them. In Groningen it is called a "chainage." I find extra attention to the chain setting very interesting. Then where do we pay for it? From the internship fund. That's structural money. There's a lot of money in that budget, too. That goes to those care institutions, so that they can organise well that they are accompanied at that internship. I think this is a very practical way of keeping these young people in care. In addition, there is the quality impulse, which I spoke about earlier in the direction of Mrs Agema. It is about the retraining and retraining of care staff, actually with the same aim, namely to keep people for care. That goes for young, but also for old. So that's re-schooling, re-schooling and re-schooling so that the work can stay interesting. The quality impulse scheme also existed for this cabinet period. It is now reserved for the next few years and is anchored in the main agreements. Actually, I'm expecting some of that, too. Do I want to go to generational schemes with 80% hours, 90% salary and 100% pension? No. I don't want to go that way. I don't think that's a role of the government. What needs to be regulated about policies in this area, whether generational or non-generational, belongs to collective agreements. This must be done by employers and employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u359	I understand that the government is not going to implement it on its own, but the Minister can of course play a major role in stimulating such generational schemes. That was also the question that I specifically asked, not to do it yourself tomorrow, but to broaden it in consultation with the social partners. This is now happening on a limited scale. It would be very good to do so on a much larger scale, precisely because then you can hold the older workers longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u360	I'd like to stimulate a little bit, but I don't want generational arrangements. I want to encourage re-schooling, re-schooling and sub-schooling. For that, the budget of the quality impulse seems to me to be the convenient method. Mr. Chairman. There were no more questions in Mr Kerstens' speech that I have not yet answered. In fact, I have just come to the issue of monitoring. Mr. Chairman. I come to the questions asked by Mrs Dik-Faber. Her first question was about the health insurers, who would not want to index the agreed wages or who would not want to pay for them, while that was the agreement with the main agreement on medical and specialist care. I don't know the signal Mrs Dik-Faber was talking about, but I'm looking into it. I also regularly sit around the table with the parties to the main line agreements. Well, we've made a deal to keep them. I'm going after that. This applies at all to the main lines of agreement, not just on this subject but on all subjects. A lot of things have to happen at tables between the different fields, but I always want to keep my finger on the wrist. Then there is the question of how healthcare institutions are supported, so that they also have the means and time to accompany the trainees. That's why the internship fund was set up. That's for institutions that get that money. That money doesn't go to the interns, it goes to the institution, to organize the supervision of the internships. Mrs Dik-Faber's third point concerned suggestions for working differently. A few examples have already come along during the evening. I'm not sure I should walk past all the suggestions right now. As far as less regulation is concerned, Mr De Jonge has already gone into this; I can fit that seamlessly. The commitment to healthcare technology and home automation is good, but also provide sufficient support for care workers and the development of competence for this. I agree with both of them. Here I wonder why the example of image bells, which I once saw at a care facility in the East of the country, is not followed much more widely, not only because the employer and the insurer like it so much, but also because the home care in the region thinks it is very practical to turn on that image bells every now and then. That saves a lot of rides in the East of the Netherlands, in that beautiful flat country. I spoke earlier about an exchange idea. In that action-learning network a number of superexperts or ambassadors have been appointed and one of them should focus on that area of care technology and home automation. The issue of better secondary working conditions was also a suggestion. I'm a little less charmed to play a role there as a government. I think this is more for the collective bargaining parties. Mr President, so much for Mrs Dik-Faber's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u361	She has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u362	More like a short response to the Minister's remark. When it comes to care technology and home automation, he sees beautiful examples and wonders why this doesn't happen more often in the country. I think that a big point is that there is a lot of innovation going on, but that implementation requires a little more attention. That seems to me to be a subject for next week's budget debate. Let's not talk about that tonight, but I'll take a little advance on that. I think you can fill that up for a whole night. There are all fantastic initiatives in the care field, but implementation remains a challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u363	I believe that's what all three of us think. In order not to talk the time until after the budget, I will give this brief response. I can imagine that sometimes it lingers too much in a region. I would like to look for a method of working, with those superexperts and some of the staff of that institution in the East of the country, to show, perhaps from an employee's perspective, how pleasant that is; that that image calls are very practical and beneficial for some patients and therefore for some employees. I mean not in money, but in people's quality and commitment. The rest will be here next week, I suggest. I would like to mention two points from Mr De Lange. The first question was what possibilities the cabinet could see to extend the contract hours from, for example, 24 hours to 32 hours. If I may say briefly, I have just commented on this in response to Mrs Bergkamp. That's about expanding the part-time factor. If I can answer it that way, that's the shortest way. Mr De Lange's second question was what we can do to ensure that training is future-proof and has the right skills for the future. The NFU and the NVZ are currently building up the training offer of the hospital training courses modularly. When I first heard that, I also thought: it's really crazy that that's new! But I am very happy that this is going to happen, because I think it is very practical to train people faster and more current, and so to use it. So I expect a lot of that modular building up of hospital education. That is one ingredient that helps for future resilience and flexibility. Two. I understand there's a new framework for medical studies coming up. Such a window plan is made every ten years. The new framework plan, which is due to be published in two years' time, looks much more than in the existing plan at issues such as joint decision-making, innovation and prevention. You could say that this also makes training a bit more future-proof. You may also wonder how future-proof a ten-year window plan is, but that's the way it works in medicine. And putting that element of that together into it as an example seems to me to be a very good choice. I'm really looking forward to it. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the questions asked by Mrs Ellemeet. Is there sufficient attention to education, without immediately moving on to another function? I think Mr De Jonge has just answered that question. Then the point: how are you going to ensure more attention to the use of innovation and ICT? There are actually two answers to that. One is a bit of advertising for initiatives such as image bubbles, but also for eHealth in a broader sense or for innovation in a wider sense. You can organise an innovation breakfast, or set up a healthcare innovation store or set up an eHealthweek for it. Those are all things we're already doing. But I think much more needs to be done. That is something we will be discussing in greater detail in the budget. That's the whole point of standardizing and uniting language. I've been in a hurry to have another report on the unit of language delivered to you. I don't know if that actually came in today. We have to think about the different languages, which are all very good Dutch, which healthcare professionals still use in the different silos. Digitalization has brought that on the table very clearly. Try making that one language. "Oh, that's fine!', Those hospitals say, "Let's make it one language. If everyone chooses our language, then we're out!" I'm making it a little too funny right now and that's not what it's meant to be, but the general practitioners say something like that: we have a certain method of working and if everyone follows it, then we all speak the same language. So we're definitely not getting out of this fast. This is a theme due to the issue of standardisation. We're trying to organize units and coupling surfaces. It's gonna take us a few more years. I would like to make one comment. We come from the Tan motion period. At least that's what the period is called in the department. The Tan motion states that no national interference in the organisation of a digital highway for healthcare infrastructure. And if I take a look at the motions of several of your groups from the past period, I see much more of a call to see if we can organise a form of government involvement again. I said this in a debate just before the summer, and I repeat it now, and I will repeat it again next week: we are going to write a letter on this before the end of the year, in which we will go into more detail. So it's a well-chosen subject, but it's as tough as it is, what's it called neatly? - Oh, my God. - Oh, my God. - Oh, And we're gonna be working on that for a while. Maybe that was a little too practical. To be continued. Mr. Chairman. I would like to address the questions raised by Mrs van den Berg from the CDA Group. First of all, the question of the estimates of the Capacity Body. Can we do that for the longer term? Can we do that by region? Can demographic developments be taken into account? Three times, yes, because that is how the estimates of the Capacity Body are put together. It also leads to an opinion at individual hospital level on which people should be trained for the Capacity Body. These estimates have been compiled. Again, demographic developments and developments in the healthcare landscape are taken into account. If we are successful in bringing more care from the hospitals to the one and a half or first line, then this is taken into account in the estimates of the Capacity Body. The horizon for these estimates is in the order of five years, but there is also a bit longer looking ahead, to ten years. I think that is practical estimates. I don't know exactly when the next round will come again, but that's somewhere this year. That gives us really good insight. It seems really useful, not only on a national level, but also at a regional level. Speaking of regional level, is it an idea to encourage doctors in training to take part of their internship in regional hospitals, or is it even possible to make this compulsory? Stimulation would be an idea, but I am not in a position to impose national obligations. Just one thing: not all regional hospitals are training hospitals. A number of hospitals are training hospitals. They are also related to university centres. Because we see that there can be a shortage in filling some training places, particularly in the region, a study is currently being carried out on regional differences, with a few possible training courses. Well, that's a basis for follow-up. That is also the time to choose what incentive we are going to organise to see if more training can be provided in the region. Mr. Chairman. Then the point of the small contracts: can you maybe bundle them together, can you make combi contracts? In fact, I have already commented on this in response to the speech of one of yours. I'll just have to leave it at that. On the issue of the impact of social innovation and technological innovation on influx: can the Minister say anything about this? To be honest, we cannot say much more about this than it says in the introduction to the action programme, namely: if social innovation means that people work an hour more every week because functions can be properly combined, it can mean that 20,000 people are less needed in healthcare. But these are completely abstract calculations. They are not based on practical examples, let alone on practical examples from the region. But I think that with jobcarving, job redeployment and combi functions as I just named between the E.R. and the ambulance, there could be a hit. Something similar applies to technology. This can also lead to a question of 25,000 less; we have written it down in the action programme. But it's effects that you have to consider very globally. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to finish the list of questions. When does the Minister direct to ensure that information is clearly recorded, that healthcare providers' ICT systems can talk to each other and that there is one secure digital connection? The answer I have just given comes back in detail, at least in a letter this year. I think those were the questions asked by the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u364	Of course, I was pleased that the Minister said yes three times with regard to the estimates and the regional component, but can I also confirm that the financing of training places is linked to them? I have a related question. The Minister says that not all regional hospitals are training hospitals. But that's the point we want to make. In this way, regional hospitals will still be excluded. That is precisely where we are looking for a solution. I assume the questions about social service will be answered by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u365	We have a balanced division of tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u366	I have another point. That does not need to be discussed this evening, but one hour more work for me does not fall under the category of'social innovation'. There is also a qualitative element in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u367	I am looking for what Mrs van den Berg means by'social innovation'. Nor do I have a more specific answer than this. I have tried to mention a quantitative effect when it comes to the number of jobs that you could fill more if social or technological innovation is a success. But I admit it: I am not getting any further than this somewhat general answer to that point. Maybe I could take the opportunity to say something about regional hospitals? On that point, I would really like to suggest that we await the examination of these regional differences. There are also a number of solutions. Then we can also check whether the number of regional hospitals that provide the training is adequate or whether we need to tap out of another vessel. Read: that we should, for example, ask more local hospitals. But there is no doubt that there is another price tag. Mrs van den Berg's other question was about the financing of these training places. I just figured I'd give you an answer with a nice trinity in it. The element of funding was no longer appropriate. But through the availability fee there is a cost-covering funding for hospitals to train for the medical support professions and for the specialised nurses. There is therefore a cost-covering training available. Mr. Chairman. I'm almost there. I should like to answer Mr Van der Staaij's questions. It is not just the time, but it is also the way of speaking to express a little the urgency. I am looking for a practical approach to show that we are looking behind the table for practical contributions to make the action programme a success. And, of course, it is far too early to assess the results of the action programme, because it has only been six months. It was planned to talk about this tonight. And then I think it is a good thing to be as specific as possible about the ambitions as possible and, with that, to express the urgency. I know that the urgency we are talking about here is quite different from the urgency felt at the workplace. People in the field might say: what have they been talking about all night; I still don't have those schedules around for the night shift. We must try to implement the measure as practically as possible for our part. Mr. Chairman. I would like to answer three questions from Mr Van der Staaij. The first one is about the BIG registration. To make it easier to re-enter, more customization is needed in the BIG registration. Is that possible? There is now a large threshold for re-entry, for example after illness. That BIG registration took sometimes more than 30, 35 days in recent years. That's a shame, because if someone's BIG-registered, that person can get to work. So we really want that BIG registration time to be shortened. Experiments are now being carried out with a different method. Indeed, that BIG registration period can be significantly reduced to less than 10 days. That is far from enough to be in a hurray mood, but we are making a few good shots there. Then people who work in care and get sick. The Action Group Re-registration Doctors In Disease talks with us about making more customization possible for that re-entry, so that a BIG registration can lead to these people getting back into health care. But the situation will also have to be taken into account that re-enterers have not worked for years and that there has sometimes also been a delay in the level of education. The quality of care, the quality of people's work, must always remain at the forefront. So we're having that conversation, but it's not like you can serve everyone here in a good way. But the theme is very much in front of us. That's one. Secondly, what about the opportunities for speeding up training? Isn't there something there? Can't you organize training faster? Yeah, you can do that in practice. A number of MBO institutions offer BBL training to MBO nurse level 4 shortened for students with experience in care and relevant pre-training. They can then complete the training in a year and a half. Many colleges now have dual training pathways. During a dual training course, a student has a apprenticeship contract. This student works directly in the care, of course under supervision. But there are good opportunities to speed up the training, so you can deploy people sooner. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Staaij has asked about the issue of job carving. I have now gone into this in one of the other speeches. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u368	I will come back to the BIG requirements. It is said on various sides: I am so opposed to all kinds of BIG obligations, which partly want me to learn all kinds of fairly theoretical things, when I really want to get to work and want to see what I can do in the workplace. I've been giving it up for a while. I saw it again tonight in reactions to Facebook. Would the Minister care to see if there are any unnecessary thresholds in it? After all, it comes from different sides. Is it a question of misrepresentation of what exactly is being asked? In my opinion, there really is still a chance for people who are now being deterred by this step that needs to be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u369	Of course, we do not want to deter anyone; that is clear. For that we need all hands and heads in care far too much. But of course we have that re-registration for a number of workers in care. Every five years of registration, that's what we need. This re-registration depends on two legs: in the last five years, 2.080 hours have worked in that position or have completed a training programme. One of the two is needed. You can have both, if I understand correctly. In short, this is the existing regime. I do not think that we should detract from the quality of care. We must, of course, ensure that BIG registered, patients, citizens and so on can assume that everyone who has been reregistered also meets the quality requirements. I understand that in terms of customization, the conversation is being held between that action group and VWS. They're conducting a joint reconnaissance. So our department is also involved. That reconnaissance should lead to reporting next quarter. Mr Van der Staaij says that he is getting signals that there is another hair in the soup and that there are people who say that the requirements of re-registration are too heavy. I would like to be receptive to such signals, but I do not want to detract from the quality requirements of the BIG registration. See here the tension field. Perhaps Mr Van der Staaij can feed me either in the second term or at a later time. Then I will make sure that these signals are included in this exploration of the action group and VWS. Because it's as practical as it is. If it can be helpful, we shouldn't miss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u370	I think it is a good suggestion to give a number of concrete examples to see if there is any further movement possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u371	Then I thank the Minister and then we go to the third ruler in our midst. That's the U.S. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u372	Mr. Chairman. I just got coffee and I'll let my input be so short that my coffee is still warm when I'm done. Minister Bruins replied to a question by Mr Van der Staaij: do the directors see the urgency? I would like to endorse his response to that point. I believe that more spokesmen have asked whether the urgency is felt by the rulers. Are they themselves committed to highlighting the importance of working in care? I say yes to that. Also with all the work visits I make in the sector that I am primarily responsible for, the ggz, the issue of the labour market, working in health care and having fun in your work is always an important issue. I also meet a lot of involved and enthusiastic staff, who are passionate and enthusiastic about doing their work, and very expert. I'd like to express my deep respect for that from this place. In the main agreement ggz, employee involvement is a very important issue. I am talking about involvement in the implementation of their workplace and their working environment. The involvement of workers is also an important issue when it comes to completing the ggz assistance. This is reflected in the broad agreement in the light of good employership. If it's okay, there's only one question left from the Chamber. Mrs Van den Berg has just referred to this. That was the question about social service. That's my wallet, so I'd like to get back to that. As Mrs Van den Berg knows, the main objective of social service is to enable young people to discover their talents and thus have a social impact in a very broad context. We started experiments after the summer holidays. 41 projects were pushed aside in mid-September, with which they experimented: how exactly are we going to complete social service with each other? I can assure you that there is a substantial part of it that has interfaces with well-being and care. The projects are also easy to find via the website of VWS. If Mrs Van den Berg needs it, we can simply send the list. It will then see for itself that there are a number of projects that are highly related to these two sectors. I welcome that myself. As far as I am concerned, young people who discover their talents in these sectors are getting so excited that they say: yes, that is my future, that is what I want to work in. I hope that this is an adequate answer, because I cannot be much more specific about it at the moment. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u373	Thank you, Secretary of State. Then we came to the end of the first term on the part of the cabinet. We are moving on to the second term on the side of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Agema. Like her colleagues, she has two minutes and a maximum of 40 seconds in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u374	I would like to devote all this time to drawing conclusions, Mr President, but then I cannot table my motions. I would also very much like to move on the commitments I have made, because yes, that is not a stand-alone policy. So maybe we can drag some more out. That's why we've got the next few motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the possibility of giving all pupils with a VMBO diploma access to MBO care training (up to and including level 3),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that 80,000 employees left the healthcare sector in 2017;]] [[believes that it is a sin if these people are lost for care;]] [[calls on the Government to pool the regional exit studies and to send a plan for the retention of staff to the Chamber for next spring,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Central Planning Office was unable to pass on the Work in Health Action Programme;]] [[noting that the action lines and the eight figures mentioned for more care workers in the action programme do not appear to be feasible;]] [[invites the Chamber in the regular monitor of the action programme to give more insight into the results of the eight figures mentioned for more care workers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been a long-standing disagreement between employers and employees about the use of peak hours;]] [[considers that precisely the hours between peak hours are important for achieving more quality in nursing homes and implementing the quality framework;]] [[calls on the Government to find a solution to the peak-hour conflict between employers and health workers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more and more highly trained health care workers are starting to work as zzp'ers;]] [[considers that this is their right;]] [[noting that this movement is swallowing up an increasing proportion of the institution's budget;]] [[calls on the Government to identify this record in the short term and to ensure that this movement does not ensure that nursing homes do not have sufficient funds to implement the quality framework in the coming years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that managers can move back to the workplace on a voluntary basis, while retaining their salary;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-316]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-317]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-318]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-319]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-320]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-321]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u375	And the last one, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to pick out the many billions that go into care, including waste, fraud, scaling up, over-purchase costs and care-e.g., and to use them for higher salaries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-322]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u376	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My time has already stopped, but finally I would like to say the following. We have a huge task ahead of us. If that task is not achieved, then we are not only getting signals that general practitioners close down, that people who are almost blind and no longer receive messages in the summer, that operating rooms close down or whatever. The care then simply implodes because of too few employees. This is a task that needs to be met and requires more concrete measures and more concrete targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u377	Thank you. Then we'll go to the second speaker. That's Mrs. Bergkamp of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u378	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their response. I have two motions, one of which is very long. So I'll start right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that a good approach to the labour market in care takes into account the composition of staff in the near future, but also in the long term;]] [[noting that in the health and well-being sector there are already staff shortages in various sub-sectors, such as nursing, care, hospital care and mental health care, and that a targeted approach requires a good picture of these developments;]] [[Whereas a good approach to the labour market in care depends on many factors, such as coherence with education and technological, demographic and social developments;]] [[noting that much research has already been done and is being carried out into long-term developments in care, such as RIVM public health future explorations and the long-term impact of rising healthcare expenditure by the SER/WRR;]] [[Calls on the Government to provide annual insight into the evolution of staff shortages in the health and well-being sector by sub-sector;]] [[calls on the Government to identify what is going on in the field of future research on care and to consider what additional research is needed to achieve a meaningful exploration of the long-term labour market in care, over 20 years, taking into account the links with education and technological, demographic and social developments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bergkamp, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr De Lange, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Ellemeet and Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-323]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u379	And Mrs. Agema! To the end, Mr. Chairman. You can still do that, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u380	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u381	Look at this. That's great. Thank you, Mrs Agema! Then I have a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Work in Care Action Programme states that the focus is in the region;]] [[noting that care professionals regularly do not sit at the regional labour market table in an advisory and/or decision-making role while at these regional labour market tables the decisions that are relevant to the region are taken;]] [[Whereas the knowledge and experience of caregivers for the Work in Care Action Programme is crucial to its success;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage and facilitate the participation of healthcare professionals at the regional labour market table in each region in order to maximise their knowledge and expertise and to reduce the gap between policy and practice as far as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-324]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u382	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then I have one more question. I understood from the Minister that the in-service report and hopefully the advice of the cabinet will come in early 2019. "Beginning 2019" is very spacious and I would like to know when this is concrete, because people have been in uncertainty for a long time. I would also like to confirm that I certainly see the urgency and prioritisation of these leaders, as well as their involvement, looking at the many work visits that are there. Mr Blokhuis also made that clear. I can see that. The concerns of the Chamber concern how we can now monitor and monitor this process. I would like to ask the rulers a question. If they have followed this debate, and they have, what are they taking into account in terms of changes to the action programme? I am very curious to know what the directors will take from this debate. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u383	Thank you, Mrs Bergkamp. I'm going to see Mr. Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u384	Mr. Chairman. The SP has today drawn particular attention to the position of older workers in health care and I would also like to table the following three motions for resolutions for them. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 53% of the elderly caregivers are considering leaving care or stopping work earlier because care provision is becoming more and more severe;]] [[calls on the government to agree with the social partners on increasing the number of generational schemes, which attract additional young people so that older workers can work less hours without having to pay much for their pay and retirement;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that older healthcare providers have a wealth of experience and knowledge and are therefore of great value for the guidance and support of younger colleagues;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the social partners, to come up with a plan which will free up hours for older healthcare providers if they so wish, which they can use to train and support younger colleagues,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-325]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-326]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u385	And then the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the majority of older workers in the care are considering stopping because working through to the retirement age is considered physically impossible;]] [[Considers that it would be good if more managerial and administrative positions in care were filled by experienced caregivers for whom the provision of care is physically less sustainable;]] [[calls on the Government to organise training pathways for highly experienced healthcare providers interested in a management or management function so that their knowledge and experience can be fully deployed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-327]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u386	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by reading out the motions and then I will see if there is any time left for a very sensible final remark. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important to have a timely view of how the interim results of the Work in Care Action Programme relate to the ultimate goal of reducing the staff shortage in care by 2022, in order to allow for necessary adjustment;]] [[Considering that the very extensive commitment to addressing labour market shortages leads to many data that make it difficult to assess whether the desired progress is being made;]] [[calls on the government to set out a limited number of key targets in order to make the progress of the cabinet's ambition towards the labour market even clearer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kerstens and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-328]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u387	My second motion was co-signed by Mr Hijink. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas contact with employees and potential healthcare staff has always shown that improving working conditions and reducing the workload in the sector are important in increasing the attractiveness of work in the care sector;]] [[noting that there is insufficient concrete attention to this in the Work in Care Action Programme;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how and in what form, in the action programme in question, more robust and concrete efforts can be made to improve working conditions and reduce workload in the care sector and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important that smaller sectors of care, such as general practitioners, should also be able to participate fully in the Health Care Work Action Programme, as there is a growing shortage of staff;]] [[noting that, as an individual employer, it is not easy to meet, for example, subsidies or to carry out or participate in the conditions laid down for pilots of an administrative nature;]] [[calls on the Government to take the above into account and, for example, to allow care groups on behalf of the family members to act as "manager" in projects so as to be able to take account of the actual administrative side of the matter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kerstens and Mr Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-329]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-330]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u388	And the last one, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas care in relation to the continuing shortage of staff also needs many young entrants;]] [[Whereas, in the context of good and attractive training, it is important for students to have an internship;]] [[noting that there are insufficient placements in care;]] [[calls on the government to implement an internship guarantee in the care sector to ensure that every student can internship during his or her training in order to proceed with even better preparation in the care sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-331]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u389	Then I have a moment to make my final comments, Mr President. The aim of all these motions is to contribute to the success of the action programme. For that is, in spite of the differences of opinion that have gone over the table here tonight, in my opinion, what we all share. We all want to do our utmost to ensure that there will soon be sufficient staff in the care sector. That's what's best for those employees in care, that's what's best for clients and patients, and that's what's best for all of us, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u390	Thank you, Mr. Christmas. I am going to the next speaker, and that is Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u391	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Ministers and the Secretary of State for answering all the questions that have been asked. Two motions have also been tabled on my behalf, by Mrs Bergkamp. One refers to monitoring, but also to the future: the developments that will then take place in the healthcare sector, the shortage of labour and the issues we are then faced with. The other motion concerns the debate that I have also had with Minister De Jonge, the Minister of the United States of America, my apologies about involving healthcare professionals in the agreements made at regional level. My group believes that this is very important. I am very curious to hear the Minister's reaction to these motions. Furthermore, I have two motions before me, which I am now going to table. The first motion is about the money from the Sector PlanPlus. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Sector PlanPlus provides 320 million over a four-year period to provide new care workers with training;]] [[whereas these funds have already been invested, but periods 3 and 4 still have to be opened;]] [[Whereas the remaining resources should be used in those sectors and regions where the greatest need exists;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with the parties on this subject, with a redistribution of available resources as an option,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr De Lange, Mr Van den Berg and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-332]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u392	Thank you. The second motion deals with coaching on the job and specific training opportunities for caregiver level 2. I have to dig into my memory, but I think I have already drawn attention to the element of coaching on the job together with Otwin van Dijk, former MP of the Labour Party. I think there's a lot of profit to be gained from this. That was acknowledged in the debate at the time, but I hear so little of it. On these two elements, I would like to table this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas some health care institutions are saying goodbye to nurturing level 2 because they set level 3 as a standard;]] [[Whereas health care institutions benefit from a varied workforce, including to keep the cost of care as low as possible;]] [[Whereas level 2 caregivers can also develop with tailor-made training or coaching on the job;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with health care institutions, to develop specific training opportunities for caregivers level 2 in order to preserve them for the care sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-333]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u393	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u394	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. Then I will go to Mr De Lange of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u395	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the three directors for the answers they have given this evening. At least today I have noticed that everyone thinks it is extremely important that the labour market is doing well in the care sector. Everyone thinks that this is the top priority and that it is extremely important that we keep enough people to keep that care in the Netherlands as well. That reminded me of a question I often ask people in care. Then I ask, why do you actually work in health care? Someone said to me, with a smile on the face: yes, that's just who I am. That's why it's so incredibly important that we're gonna give all these 1.2 million professionals room. Much has been incorporated into colleagues' motions. One motion was tabled earlier, namely the motion on the importance of monitoring. I am glad that this monitoring takes place twice a year. I think that we still have to look closely at whether we are entirely in agreement with all the indicators that exist. But I also heard from the cabinet very strongly the invitation to look at it again. At least I'd like to pick up that glove. Finally, I would like to mention two more points. The first is about the importance of staying in care and working pleasure in care. I am pleased that training funding can also be used for the accompanying bonus, to give more form and content to a master companion model. That could be in time and space, but that could also be in a financial reward. I think that is an absolute gain, and a very good signal to all those regions to get to work on this now. The second point concerns the choice of care. Care training is aimed at the future. I also heard the Minister say that, at least on the medical side, innovations are also being widely looked at. I would like to call for this to be done in all these health training courses, where, of course, there is very strong preparation for that future. I will conclude with the words that have been said tonight about the high urgency of working on the labour market in healthcare. At least we must feel that we have done everything we can to solve this great problem. I think that's best if we get some clarity on what we're sending. And that part I think we need to fill out. I'd say get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u396	Thank you, Mr. De Lange. I'm going to see the next speaker on the side of the Chamber. That's Mrs Ellemeet from GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u397	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thanks to the rulers for answering the many questions. It is clear that, as I think all Members of Parliament, they are very aware of it, are aware that this is perhaps the greatest task, and that opposition and coalition together must do as much work on it as possible. In that sense, I am reassured and I think that is also an encouraging signal to all those people who work in healthcare. Thank you also for the commitment to connect the different objectives we have. I call care in the right place, labour market plans, living and caring. These are, of course, all major tasks that must be seen in conjunction. Minister De Jonge has indicated that he is going to think about how to make that connection. I look forward to the outcome of that reflection. I support Mrs Bergkamp's motion on the long-term perspective. I think that is a very important part of finding solutions to the labour market problems in healthcare. The same applies to Mr Kerstens' motion, which I tabled with him. It is about setting a number of targets. We have, of course, also discussed this in this debate. I think it will benefit the debate here in the Chamber if we have it. I will also support a motion by Mrs van den Berg on education and social innovation. Then I have one motion of my own. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the various plans of this cabinet, which also aim to address staff shortages in care, have different accountability requirements;]] [[Considers that fragmented accountability associated with the different programmes of VWS and healthcare offices, including the Sector Fund Plus, the quality budget, Dignity and pride and the transition budget (from 2019 onwards), makes it difficult for healthcare institutions to make strong coherent personnel policies;]] [[calls on the government not only to engage with industry organisations but also with a number of HR managers of healthcare institutions to discuss ways to better reconcile the fragmented accountability burden,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-334]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u398	What we hope to give in this motion is that it is also important for the cabinet to be as close to that workplace as possible, not only to speak to industry organisations but also to pick up from health care institutions which they find in practice. I look forward to the reaction of the rulers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u399	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. Then we shall go to the last speaker, at least in the second term. That's Mrs. Van den Berg from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u400	Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, I would like to thank the directors for their comprehensive answers to all the questions. I would also like to thank you for what I have seen as an appeal to the Chamber to consider how the indicators can be presented as effectively as possible. As I said earlier, a lot of data doesn't mean there's information. So at least thank you for that opportunity. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is sometimes difficult in the region to attract sufficient care staff, even if there is no shortage at all at national level in the profession concerned;]] [[noting that this may unnecessarily lead to a deterioration of care in the region, as the situation with the shortage of pediatricians in Drenthe has shown;]] [[Whereas, during the course of training, doctors do not have sufficient contact with regional or local hospitals, which makes it possible to identify them as unloved;]] [[Whereas part of the training at a regional hospital may lead to a greater tendency for doctors to opt for work in a regional hospital after training;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up proposals on how to encourage the training of doctors at least part of their training at a regional hospital, and to inform the Court of Justice of this by the first quarter of 2019 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-335]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u401	A quick question. The CDA Group is now bringing the local hospitals, the regional hospitals, to the fore in this motion. There is much to be said for this, but the nursing home sector or the disabled sector could also be brought forward. Why now lift out this particular sector, when in other sectors, too, there really is a shortage of staff?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u402	In fact, this has to do with the fact that the Minister mentioned earlier, namely that there is a strict indication for medical care in itself of the job vacancies to be expected in the future, for the next ten years, and also because there are many more restrictions for hospitals to be given training, I think. But I fully agree with Mrs Dik-Faber that this is of course not only in medical care in hospitals but also in other areas of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u403	We have spent the whole evening debating the problems in the care sector, which arise across the whole range of the area of care. I just don't know how sensible it is to pull out one particular group. Let us just wait and see the Minister's opinion on this point as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u404	That's up to the Minister. I agree on all sides with the point made by Mrs Dik-Faber. Once again, it is also motivated by the specific problems faced by hospitals, including in terms of training.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u405	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u406	Mr. Chairman. The second motion is, as Mrs Ellemeet has already announced, co-signed by Mrs Ellemeet. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas labour market problems can be solved not only by hiring more people and/or technological innovation, but also by paying attention to training and promoting social innovation;]] [[Whereas people who want to work full-time in health care often have to run double shifts or do different jobs;]] [[Whereas many healthcare staff are now carrying out improper tasks such as administration and cleaning;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the attention paid to training with the employer;]] [[calls on the government to identify how social innovation can be promoted, for example through other combinations of tasks and other combinations of functions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-336]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u407	It's also meant to be... Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u408	No, you wanted to say another sentence, and you can finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u409	We talked about trying to keep the back door closed. That's our goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u410	I think that's part of one of the action lines, job carving. What does Mrs Van den Berg want other than what is already in the action programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u411	Jobcarving is not the same for me as social innovation. Jobcarving is an opportunity for people to do specific work that relieves other people from, for example, cleaning or administrative work. But that doesn't mean you were able to create those full-time jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u412	Thank you. I shall suspend the sitting until 12.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u413	I will give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u414	Thank you, Mr President. About 20 motions have been tabled, and we shall be giving them an opinion in a moment, and a single question has been asked. In my direction, that was a question from Mrs Bergkamp. She actually asked: what are the Ministers and the Secretary of State taking from this debate? What has kept me the most from the first term of your Chamber, and also from the discussion we had in the first term of the Cabinet, is that there is a strong need from your Chamber to get a better grip on the progress of that issue, so as to know whether we are getting closer to a solution or getting further away from it. This relates in particular to the way in which we set up the monitor. We want to deal with that as we have just discussed. This means that we not only provide the Chamber twice a year with the latest state of play on all these indicators per action line, but also see if we can come up with a presentation of targets for some or the most important of them in a forthcoming progress report, in order to keep a grip on the intermediate position. That has actually been the outcome of the debate we have had. A motion has also been tabled on this subject. I'll deal with that in a moment. But that's actually what's stuck with me the most. I also think that we share the urgency and that we also see the immensity of the issue. We also know what it means if we were not able to offer a solution. Then I come to my assessment of the motions that have been tabled. I will try to do that a little quickly, so that you do not have to encourage me to do so. The motion in part No. Mrs Agema 317 asked the government to pool the regional exit research and to send a plan for the maintenance of staff to the Chamber. A plan for conservation as such runs through all other lines of action in such a way that it does not make much sense, but I have already promised Mrs Agema that I would like to carry out an analysis of what is the reason for the departure. I therefore advise against this motion in this form. The motion in part No. 318 calls on the government to give more insight into the results of the eight figures mentioned for more care workers in the periodic monitoring of the action programme. It refers, of course, to the discussion which has already been going on a number of times. That table is not an end in itself. It's math examples, buttons that can be turned, to get started. It doesn't make sense to report that way at all. So I also advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 319 calls on the government to find a solution to the "peak-hour conflict" between employers and workers in the care sector. I would advise against that motion in this form. In doing so, we want to give good examples in the action-learning network in which these peak hours are dealt with in such a way that it is possible to opt for an extension of contract hours and not just to give contacts with the size of this peak hour load. So I would really like to do this in a different way than to come up with a solution to the rush hour conflict. Employers can just learn a lot from each other in that respect. That's what we're gonna promote, so I'm gonna dissuade this motion in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u415	In what form would it not be discouraged?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u416	In the promise as I do. We know that a number of employers, for example in community care, but also in nursing care, offer contracts with the size of the peak hour load there is. The employees there would like a larger contract, but the employer does not manage it well in his own work organisation. At the same time, we see employers who do. They opt for combination lanes, for combinations of functions in their own home, so they manage to do so. With this action-learning network, I want to bring these good examples to the attention of employers who still have a way in which to go. So that's what we're gonna do. That's what we're gonna do through that action-learning network.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u417	In what way should I have formulated that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u418	We are having a discussion now, and this is the way we are going to work on it. You call it "the peak-hour conflict" between employers and health workers. That is quite different from what I have just said about what we are going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u419	No, Mrs Agema asked if there was any form in which the motion was feasible, but I understand now that this was not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u420	Here's what I plan to do. I don't know how that fits in with how you put it. "A solution to the peak-hour conflict," I find little in line with the variety in which it occurs, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u421	Never mind, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u422	Then the motion-Agema in part No. 320: "Calls on the government to map this record in the short term and to ensure that this movement does not ensure that nursing homes do not have enough money to implement the quality framework in the coming years." That's about thezzp'ers. The administrative burden of mapping that is quite considerable. Actually, that's not very possible. The choice of whether or not to work withzzp'ers is, of course, a choice that employers themselves make. Most employers would prefer not to, but sometimes they do not get away with it, because a number ofzzp'ers still need to be hired. I do not really see any added value in mapping that very comprehensively, so I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u423	I'm having second thoughts. Mrs. Bergkamp on a motion from Mrs. Agema?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u424	Yes, because the subject raised by Mrs Agema is a serious problem. I think it is a shame, if there are opportunities to get out, not to do so, because I am considering supporting Mrs Agema's motion. We could say: ask the government to take stock of the possibilities for the peak-hour conflict. Then we offer employers a kind of tool to think about how to deal with this conflict. I also get signals that this often does not go well in practice. Then we do not move on to one solution, but then we identify what solutions are possible. I'm just guessing, with your permission, because it's your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u425	I am going to submit to the Minister whether this change would lead to a different appreciation. I would then like to ask Mrs Agema what she is doing with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u426	Or is it up to the author to come up with a revision of the operative part?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u427	In the end, it is absolutely up to the petitioner to change that or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u428	I find it complicated, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u429	I hesitated myself...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u430	...to freestyle out loud on a formulation. Peak hours and the scale of contracts at peak hours are indeed a serious issue. That is why, unintentionally, unintentionally, contracts are offered in a number of institutions smaller than what employees would like, so that is a serious issue. I have outlined the way in which we want to deal with this, namely by learning from employers who had the same kind of problem, but who managed to deal with it in the design of these contracts. I find it complicated that the wording in this motion instructs the government: a solution to the rush hour conflict. If the wording in the operative part "I'm not going to freestylen out loud "I would choose the direction to identify how employers are successfully handling it and to bring it to the attention of other employers, then I would be able to do so, but let's not go out loud on the operative part of a motion. I would ask the author to amend the operative part accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u431	At least you've given us some thought. Mrs Agema had another point at the motion on item No. 320.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u432	Okay, I'll adjust the operative part of that motion, Mr. Chairman. The other motion, in part No. 320, is also about a very important problem, and that is that an increasingly large budget of institutions is being swallowed up by having to hirezzp'ers because they do not get the rosters around. €40 per hour is €320 per day. That is a very big problem. I think it's very easy for the Minister to say "dissuade." I don't know what I'm doing right in the operative part that's dissuading it. It's becoming an incredibly big problem. We see that everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u433	If you ask the government to map this, it's a huge investigation, with a huge bureaucratic burden on institutions. That means we have to launch an investigation. Then we need to check that of a representative number of institutions. In this case, those are the nursing homes. Of the 2,200 nursing homes we have, we have to find out how the hiring of the number of zzp'ers takes up the total budget to be spent. That's a lot of paperwork for the institution, for an incredibly complicated investigation. And with what scope of action? What could we do about it? So I think the operative part of the motion simply has insufficient added value. And that's why I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u434	But that really is a lecture from the Minister who is not my intention at all. Last week we had a debate on the Wmo. In doing so, the Minister will test 15 or 30 of the 385 municipalities. The point is, we never discuss this problem anywhere. It's essential and it exists, but we never read it back in the pieces. You can also investigate it by putting out a small sample: what is happening here? I know the solution is not easy, but if we all want a quality framework and we want to get a lot more people to work in the nursing homes, while the institutional budget goes up because we have to get the schedules around withzzp'ers, then of course we are not gonna make it. Then the quality framework will not be completed. That is what I intend to do with the motion, and not just to ask 2,000 institutions for information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u435	Mrs Agema is addressing a serious issue here. Only this motion really asks to map the herds of zzp'ers. That's a hell of a pickup. I'd rather not. But if you don't mind, I'm going to dissuade this motion in this form, but I'll tell you that I'm willing to see how we can get a picture of this. This can be done, for example, by asking ActiZ: what is your image and lives with your supporters? That way we can get a look at thiszzp issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u436	Well, that's how the Minister reads my motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u437	I note that the motion is therefore dissuaded, but you do have a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u438	No. I shall deal with the debate, Mr President. I have never said in my input, in the first term, in the second term, in my interruptions...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u439	No, no, Mrs. Agema, may I have a moment? I am the chairman, and all I have to do is to see what happens during the sitting when we have the appreciation of the motions. The Chamber attaches importance to getting an appreciation from the Cabinet. I note that the Minister is dissuading your motion. So I'm going to repeat that. At the same time, I note that he is making a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u440	But, Mr President, I did not say anything about asking the Minister for information from 2,000 institutions. I would like to see an idea of what is going on here, because it is very important and can become a problem with regard to the quality and the extra staff we all want. That's my lecture, and I'm filing that motion. I'm in charge of the debate!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u441	I'm sure you're also talking about your own motion. All I have to do is find out what the final verdict is. I believe the Minister would like to say a few words about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u442	I am fine with the Minister explaining the operative part in such a way that he will ask ActiZ what is going on and inform us about it. Then he can leave the motion to the judgment of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u443	He can certainly do that, but in the end it is up to the Minister to decide what to do with it. And I'm just trying to see if I've got it right so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u444	Shall I see if I can help? Mrs Agema is, of course, referring to the interpretation of her own motion. The cabinet is about its own appreciation of the motion. But I've really had a research image. I read the motion and then I thought, "I have to map something that is incredibly complicated. That costs an incredible amount of monks work, and we just don't give a damn about it." But if I may explain "map" as "going into conversation with ActiZ to ask them if they can give us an idea of the extent of this issue," I could even leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u445	Look, Mrs. Agema!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u446	Well, thank you. Yay!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u447	Let's help each other a little, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u448	Judgement of the motion shall be left to the Chamber. Mrs van den Berg, you are now the second to report to the microphone on a motion that has not been tabled by you and on which the judgment is left to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u449	At least I am very happy with that, because I have a lot of sympathy for the subject, also coming from the ggz-experiences. And that was the reason I stepped forward for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u450	All right, let's move on to the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u451	Mr. Chairman. I'm already at the motion in part No. 321. It invites the government to ensure that managers can move back to the workplace on a voluntary basis, while retaining their salary. I am going to discourage this motion, because I am not dealing with individual agreements between employees and employers. This motion for a resolution is therefore not enforceable for the government. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 322. It invites the government to pick out the many billions that go into care, including waste, fraud, scaling up, too high purchasing costs and care-e.g., and to use them for higher salaries. I do not recommend this motion because, of course, salaries are part of the negotiations at the collective bargaining table. By the way, on all these other themes it is very "take a long time, get home quickly." Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 323. That's actually not really a motion, but rather a book, again for the literature list. I'm guessing this book would be worth three points. I'm a good count. There are so many names under it that I suspect the most sensible thing to do is to give this motion judgment Chamber. It is also in line, I think, with the discussion we have had. You'll fill that out in more detail. Moreover, I would like the 'judgement chamber' to be accompanied by the request in your direction if you would also like me to be part of the Labour Market Care and Welfare research programme, which all the numerical analyses for the coming period actually come out of. So I hope it doesn't have to be something new, for all of it. I am going to see how I can implement this, but I would like to do so as much as possible in line with what we are already mapping out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u452	Do you have a question about this motion, Mrs Bergkamp?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u453	Yes, it is. The Minister states that he has a preference for an institution to conduct the investigation. As a Chamber, we do not discuss which institution that is. If this is the most appropriate and has a lot of data and information, it can be logical, but as far as we are concerned it can also be another institution. That is really up to the Minister, I think, if the task as we have described it is being carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u454	Yes. I am not so much concerned with an institution, because for the Labour Market Care and Welfare research programme, the numbers collection is done by the CBS, but it is actually a collaboration between different parties. In fact, I'm mostly concerned with the following. If we put everything that we are doing together at the moment, I suspect that this is an addition, but that it should fit in with one of the studies that is already under way. That would be most practical in its design.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u455	I'm sorry, I misunderstood the Minister. Pragmatism is fine. As proposers, we are concerned that the assignment as defined is being carried out. If that fits within a particular programme, in which certain data have already been collected, that is fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u456	I'll come back to the motion on part No. 317. I misunderstood a commitment made by the Minister earlier in the debate. My question is this. If I turn the operative part "calls on the government to analyse the regional exit investigations and send them to the Chamber," can I count on a "judgment Chamber"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u457	What kind of negotiation is this about the cabinet's judgments? If you formulate your operative part as the promise I made to you, my judgment will be different. I was very excited about the commitment I made. Then I can leave the motion to the judgment of the Chamber. I can also say'supporting policy' and leave the judgement to the Chamber. I can still do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u458	Yeah, but it wasn't policy yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u459	No, but I have just made a commitment to this in your direction. If the motion is changed properly, I could leave the verdict to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 324 calls on the government to encourage and facilitate the presence of healthcare professionals at the regional labour market table in each region in order to maximise their knowledge and expertise and to reduce the gap between policy and practice as far as possible. I heard you right. Actually, I agree with you. We now have the Working in Care Committee, which will assess all regional action plans. I propose to give her a supplementary question, namely how the professionals have been involved in the plans, not only in their implementation but also in their preparation and decision-making. We ask her to give us a picture of that. Could that be a reason for you to hold this motion for a moment until I report to you on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u460	I have two more questions. What we would like to know in concrete terms is whether that healthcare professional is actually sitting at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u461	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u462	If the Minister can include that as an additional question in the investigation and also indicate when that investigation is ready, then I would be prepared to hold the motion. I also look at Mrs Dik-Faber and see her nodding in agreement. So we would be prepared to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u463	I'm gonna take a quick look at the official's lodge. My officials are supposed to look back so that they can nod. I believe that might be January. I see there's nodding. Yeah, it could be January. And you have indeed understood the question correctly. That is the question I would like to add to the work done by the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u464	Then we'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u465	At the request of Mrs Bergkamp, I propose her motion (29282, No. 324). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u466	In the motion in part No. 325 the government is invited to agree with social partners on increasing the number of "generational schemes," the schemes which attract extra young people so that older workers can work less hours without having to pay much for their pay and retirement. This is an extremely interesting subject for the collective bargaining table. We don't care about that. So this motion I'm not going to recommend. The motion in part No. Mr Hijink asked the government, in consultation with the social partners, to come up with a plan which would free up, if they so wished, hours of training and support for younger colleagues. I should also like to advise against this motion, because this too is simply about the definition of working conditions, and that belongs at the collective agreement table. The motion in part No. Mr Kerstens and Mr Ellemeet asked the government to set a limited number of important targets in order to make the progress of the cabinet's ambition towards the labour market even clearer. I think that this motion actually reflects the essence of the debate in the first term. I do not do that very often, but for that reason I would simply like to take over this motion. The motion is very much in line with the debate, but it is also in line with the commitment I made on this subject. I should therefore like to take over this motion with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u467	The Minister wants the motion in part No. 328 take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u468	I welcome the Minister's words in itself, but we would like to put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u469	That's up to you. That's not up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u470	I assume that the verdict on the motion will then be left to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u471	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u472	I see Mr Hijink going to the microphone. He probably has a question about the previous motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u473	Yeah, actually about the last two. My point applies to both motions. Nowhere in this text does it say that the government must enforce or regulate this. I only ask for good arrangements that help to keep older workers longer for care. Of course, they can be stimulated. The government could go round the table with the parties and say: there are good examples of this, in some places it happens, use these good examples now, go around the table with each other and make sure it happens in more places. It's a little lame to say it's something for the collective bargaining table. Yeah, I get that. The point is that the government can have a role in stimulating it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u474	With all due respect, it says here: calls on the government to agree with social partners on extending, etc. Making agreements with social partners, that's what social partners do. So this is really a collective-table motion. In the motion in part No. 329 the Government is invited to consider how and in what form the action programme could be more robust and concrete in its efforts to improve working conditions. Given my previous advice, you suspect, I think, that even here the judgment is "dissuaded" for the same reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u475	There is also a very short interruption here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u476	I was not even surprised by the Minister's opinion, but I would like to say that I said a moment ago in the direction of Mr De Lange that you can also do something about workload and working conditions without having to sit at the collective bargaining table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u477	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u478	So there are other possibilities, without going into the field of collective bargaining.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u479	Absolutely, anyway, when it comes to creating the right conditions for good employership.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u480	The motion in part No. 330.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u481	In the motion in part No. 330 states: "Asks the government to take the above into account and, for example, to allow smaller health care groups to act on behalf of a member of the general practitioner as 'puppets' in projects." That's kind of what we were just talking about. This one goes a step further. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that I do not make a final choice in it for a while and first see if it is possible to support it further, then I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. If you insist that I do it anyway, I regret to have to change the judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u482	I have two questions. I assume that the Minister, if he is going to look at that, will do so on a positive basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u483	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u484	When does the Minister intend to put that back together with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u485	I would prefer to put that back in the next progress report. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to send you a couple of notes every week. We're not gonna do that. Of course I am going in with a positive basic attitude, because I see the point. To get the little ones on board, you're gonna have to help a little bit; that's the point. I very much agree with that. Then the motion to part No. 332 from Dik-Faber, De Lange, Van den Berg and Bergkamp. It says: "Requests the government to consult with the parties on this matter." That "to discuss this" is about Sector PlanPlus. That affects the discussion I had with Mrs Dik-Faber. It also says, "where a redistribution of available resources is an option." I want to do that, but we do have an appointment. And there are appointments until you make a new appointment. So I can't force them to do that. It's a conversation that concerns you. That is what is being asked in the motion. So I'm going to have that conversation because I see Mrs Dik-Faber's point very well. But I would also like to emphasise that we have made agreements with the sector. Mrs Dik-Faber, of course, sees that as well. In that condition, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, I am once again at the motion in part No. 335. It invites the government not only to discuss with industry organisations but also to discuss with a number ofhr managers of healthcare institutions the possibilities of better linking the fragmented burden of accountability. That's actually an addition to what I'm doing. I also promised to continue with it and to reconnect it. I can assume that if I have a conversation with ActiZ about this, ActiZ's position is also fed by HR managers. But if it would help to test again with a number of HR managers how they look at it, I'd be happy to do it. That's what I'd like to say. I also have no problem with saying "judge chamber" on this motion. But I'm not gonna have all kinds of separate conversations about it. I'll do it in line with the commitment I've already made towards ActiZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u486	Nor is it a motion of censure towards ActiZ. That's great. But the point is that sometimes you get a little further and it gets a little sharper with those individual conversations that we have. So I totally agree with the way the minister's picking it up right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u487	Then I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. (NL) Mr President, that's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u488	Then we will go to the next minister, the Minister for Medical Care, for the motions that have not yet been dealt with by the Minister of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u489	Then first the motion to part No. 316, which states: "Asks the government to investigate the possibility of giving all pupils with a VMBO diploma access to MBO care training (up to level 3) '. That was the first motion, so that gave us a moment to contact OCW. OCW reports that the MBO's right of admission has been in place since 2017. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u490	That is not the case, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u491	If I'm not telling the truth, I'm not speaking the truth in committee. I really checked with OCW. This is what OCW literally lets me know. The MBO has a right of admission. With every VMBO diploma you can enter an MBO course. Even with vmbo-economics, you can move on to an MBO-care education. The level of the VMBO diploma determines the level at which you enter the MBO. Vmbo base to Mbo 2. Vmbo frame to Mbo 3/4. Or mixed learning path to mbo 4 nursing care. So much for the information, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u492	We wouldn't fall into cases here, but with a VMBO diploma you really can't become a pedagogical employee at MBO 3 level. You're just not gonna get in. No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u493	I'm gonna stick to my judgment anyway. I've been looking for care to ask OCW. Perhaps that question should also be asked there, but if you ask it to me and you did that tonight, then this is my response to the motion tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u494	Finalizing, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u495	It's a bit of a shame, because the Minister suggested at first that we at least investigate it. Well, I'll write that down. But it is of course very unfortunate that all kinds of people are taken into care even without diplomas. Even status holders are taken care of. Then we are talking about all young girls who happen to have the wrong VMBO degree and who cannot, for example, be a teacher at a daycare center and enter into that training. That's just the truth. The other thing's really not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u496	I get the impression that the Minister is not going to deviate from his opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u497	No, Mr. Chairman, I just denied the motion. I asked in the first period if Mrs Agema could be more specific. Then I'll check it out and dive into the case. I liked to suggest that. That wasn't enough. Now I'm getting an investigation request. That's all too heavy. I'm not gonna do that. I've been careful to be in touch with OCW. If that is not included in the prices, perhaps the best way is to ask OCW again. I took a shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u498	We're going to the Heink motion on piece number. 327.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u499	It invites the government to organise training courses for highly experienced healthcare professionals interested in a management position or function. I don't recommend that motion. This is something I really think you should organise amongst yourselves as an employer and an employee. It is not the government that organises that training course. In the motion-Dik-Faber in part No. 333 calls on the government, in consultation with health care institutions, to develop specific training opportunities for Nursing Level 2 in order to preserve them for the care sector. That motion will be given a Chamber of Justice as far as we are concerned. Both levels 2 and 3 are important. We support this movement. We see settings that offer plenty of level 2. But there are also training opportunities for levels 2 and 3 here and there in the country, but not everywhere. That is why we will point out to healthcare institutions the possibilities that exist, so that they will find broad follow-up. From the Sector PlanPlus we can provide financial support for this type of training. So again, judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u500	The opinion on the motion is Chamber judgment, but there will still be an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u501	I'm very happy about it. I would like to inform you that Mrs Van den Berg is happy to endorse this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u502	That's what we're gonna write down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u503	That doesn't change the appreciation, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u504	You're about to proceed with the motion. I have the impression that the Christmas motion in part No. 331 has not yet been treated. You've gone to the motion in part No. 333 after that in part No. 327. From the motion in part No. 331 I haven't noticed any appreciation yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u505	Mr President, that is the motion which the government is asking for in-care provision to be made to ensure that every student can take an internship during his or her training. We're gonna dissuade them. Through regional action plans, we guide agreements between employers and healthcare institutions on sufficient internships. It's going to be a huge job and realizing an internship guarantee is really a bridge too far. I fear that we will achieve the opposite and that schools, for example, will set up a numerus fixus. We shouldn't have that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u506	The motion in part No. 335.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u507	The motion in part No. 335 calls on the Government to draw up proposals on how to encourage doctors in training at least part of their training at a regional hospital. In the first term, I said that I have been conducting an investigation on this point and that I want to have that investigation before I can draw any conclusions. I would therefore like to propose that the motion be retained, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u508	That's what we do, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u509	At the request of Mrs Van den Berg, I propose her motion (29282, No. 335), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 335/1999: OJ L 335, 3.12.1999; Bull. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u510	(NL) Mr President, finally, the motion for a resolution on item No. 336. This motion calls on the government to identify ways of promoting social innovation. That motion we would like to give "judge chamber." I see this as an incentive to look at what is possible, for example, to get to work on jobcarving or job restructuring.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u511	This brings us to the end of the second term on the part of the government and also at the end of the debate on the Working in Health Action Programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-11-tweedekamer-12.u512	The votes on the motions will be taken next Tuesday. I would like to thank the directors for coming to the Chamber and their colleagues for the debate.
