ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next question is from Mrs Van den Hul, on behalf of the PvdA, to the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, about the report that the effects of domestic violence are much greater for children than was previously thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Is the approach to child abuse and partner violence working? That was the key question of the Verwey-Jonker Institute's research. The first results don't lie. An average of 71 violent incidents per family reported to Safe Home took place every year. That's more than one a week. In almost all families, the violence has been going on for over a year before it comes to any mention at all. In more than half of the families, children witness violence between their parents and victims. The consequences are serious. Four out of ten children have traumatic symptoms and suffer from depression or anxiety problems. Mr. Chairman. We knew there was a lot of violence behind the front door. Unfortunately, I can talk about that myself. Earlier I submitted an own-initiative paper on this subject together with colleagues Kikken and Dijksma. This study confirms the need for a better approach, not least because we know that these figures are based only on families who have already found their way to Safe Home. That's just a tip of the iceberg in the picture. My first question to the Minister is: what is he going to do to reverse this horrible trend? I think that starts with mapping out all the families that this happens to. This requires tailor-made work. Violence can happen anywhere, and it can happen anywhere. Just a short while ago, I received a study from Transgender Network Netherlands that shows that violence occurs four times more often behind the front door transgenders. Is the Minister prepared to talk to partners in the security chain in order to better identify all types of violence behind the front door and thus reach everyone? Mr. Chairman. It is also striking that many of the parents of the investigated families themselves have once been victims. We have to break that vicious circle. This can only be done if we not only accuse parents, but also offer them the help they need. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this with all those involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to Mrs van den Hul for raising this question in the middle of the Week against Child Abuse. I know the results of the investigation. For me, they not only underline the need and urgency to deal with this issue, which we have talked about before, but also underline the direction we are taking. Our approach is based on two pillars. The first is: we need to ensure that cases of violence come into the picture sooner and better. You just mentioned the number of 71 violent incidents before a report is made at Safe Home. It is not for nothing that it has been agreed to introduce a reporting obligation for professionals when there is acute and structural violence. From 1 January they must report this to Safe Home. Not for nothing have we also made the agreement that Safe Home will be given a role in monitoring long-term structural safety issues from 1 January, so that cases that are in the picture are not just let go but remain in the picture. That is the first pillar. We see in this study how necessary it is for violence to come sooner and better into the picture. The second pillar is to stop violence and resolve it sustainably. 44% of the perpetrators themselves have been subjected to child abuse as a child. We know that almost a third of children who have had child abuse develop trauma-related complaints, such as depression. That is why we know how necessary it is to shape the second pillar: stopping and resolving domestic violence sustainably. This means a considerable effort on trauma aid and trauma screening, wanting to know if there is a possibility of lasting consequences that need to be addressed in order to get trauma aid started. To that end, we are working on bringing both the punishment side and the care side under a roof, so help under a roof. We still have a lot to do with each other, but this is an extra encouragement for me to continue on that course, as we have put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by stressing that I am very pleased with the speed with which this Minister is addressing the issue. Yes, we've talked about it before. However, as this study underlines, that is far from enough. I insist that it is important to focus on all those families that are not in the picture. The approach that the Minister has just outlined focuses mainly on families that are already in the picture, but precisely because of the great social taboo and the multitude of forms of appearances, we must continue to offer tailor-made solutions. This requires more cooperation. We can also sometimes see that this is not the case. I was therefore more in favour of a national rapporteur, someone who can really go through and look over ministerial walls. Furthermore, I ask the Minister how the shocking results of this research relate to, for example, waiting times in youth care and capacity problems at Safe Home and at the women's shelter, where unfortunately not all families can always go into crisis situations. Could the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-3.u6	I'm walking past the questions Mrs Van den Hul has asked. Not all cases of domestic violence and child abuse are in the picture, that's right. It is precisely for this reason that working with that reporting code, making reporting mandatory when there is a suspicion of acute and structural violence, is also so necessary. In short, we have already enshrined that reporting code in the law but compliance with that reporting code can really be much better. That is what we are working on with all the professions that are supposed to comply with that code of conduct. So this is precisely the picture of those families that are not yet sufficiently visible. On Mrs van den Hul's proposal on the national rapporteur, we had a good debate on the substance of the matter in a general discussion. She also tabled a motion on this later, I believe. I said at the time that it was to get a picture of the results, of the effect of our work, so making a good impact monitor, something we should do, but that I do not need a national rapporteur. We'll just set up an effect monitor for that. We will have to do good research programming, but we do not need a national rapporteur for this either. We have set up a committee of inquiry for this. You may, of course, simply appeal to the cabinet to work across the domains. I know from your question that you do this regularly, and I think it is right. I'd like to take that up with you. It cannot be the case that where families in trouble do not comply with the departmental classification we have made, our approach does, because by definition you do not do justice to the customization that you have to achieve in families. Then there's the question of help. Where there is trauma and care that must necessarily be used to get home care and home safety in order, this aid must simply be put in place. You know our commitment to what we do to deal with waiting lists. We have agreed to create a roadmap to identify exactly where trauma assistance can be provided. Waiting lists are more than just money. There is often a problem in organization, in contracting and in triage. We have agreed that there is a waiting list approach in each region and an expert team is set up in each region to deal with this complex case in order to ensure that the aid reaches where it is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. Steps are being taken, and we can see that, but it is not enough. That's what this investigation is a painful reminder of. So I would urge the Minister not only to use that code but to look much more broadly at prevention and early warning. We see that it can do a lot better there. Not everyone comes into the picture with a general practitioner and doesn't see all the teachers and masters in a class that has a child's problems. Precisely because this is such a taboo, we need to do much more on that preventive side to make the problem discussable. Then there are the capacity problems. Any child who doesn't get the help they need is too much. There's way too many of them right now. And we hear those figures; we hear what it does in the vicious circle. We have to stop this vicious circle. We don't want to wait until there's another shocking report. We really want to see results, because everyone has to be sure of a safe home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-3.u8	I can only very much agree with that. Certainly more attention should be paid to prevention and more attention to the early picture. We must make sure that we really break the vicious circle from generation to generation when it comes to home violence. There's an incredible amount of work to do. So I would like to work with Mrs Van den Hul in this, because I know how sure she is, from her own background, working on this issue every day with special attention in her Chamber work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mrs Tielen, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-3.u10	One of the measures you have just mentioned to prevent or alert and address child abuse in good time is the reporting code. Today, the Health and Youth Inspectorate published a status report on the use of that reporting code. The overall conclusion is that it is being used actively and that its use has improved. However, the VVD is rather alarmed that the youth ggz institutions are lagging behind, because they, I quote, thought that the code of conduct did not apply to them. I believe that these institutions should be at the forefront of the prevention and timely fight against possible domestic violence and child abuse. I would therefore like to ask this Minister to what extent he can ensure that these institutions are aware of their responsibility in this matter and are actually going to take steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-3.u11	What the inspection has shown, I recognize, and that is also my image. The reporting code is used much better than until several years ago. What has helped greatly in its use is the change of the code. At that time, every profession had to develop a reporting standard, a field standard, for the question: when do we think there is structural and acute violence and when do we think that, according to that fifth step in the reporting code, there should be mandatory reporting at Safe Home? That's what brought the conversation back up. At the same time, we also know that there is work to be done in youth-ggz. We are also doing this work, namely the implementation of the new field standard and the new reporting standard. A project leader has thus started working with the sector itself. Then the phenomenon of the child check also applies in the ggz. So does the adult-ggz know that there are children in the family, is it safe with those children and does someone actually look at that child check? There's a lot of work to do there, too. What we are doing here is cooperating with the inspection. The inspection shall verify that that code is actually complied with and that that child check is actually complied with when visits are made. We are working with the sector itself on its implementation. We also facilitate this with a project leader to do that implementation in a good way. In this way, we will increase compliance with the reporting code.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you.
