ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the report by the Court of Auditors on pre-investment and participation in higher education. I would like to welcome the Minister of Education, Culture and Science, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. Seven Members have signed up for this debate. Everyone's got four minutes. I'd like to meet with you two in two. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Futselaar of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Who is crazy: the General Court of Auditors or our higher education institutions? The agreement made was clear: with the introduction of the debt system, universities and colleges would themselves invest 600 million in the quality of education from 2015 to ensure that the first generation of loan students would also see education improvement. However, the Court's investigation shows that less than half of that amount can be regarded as a certain pre-investment. So it seems to me that the institutions have not kept their promises. In addition, the Court strongly criticises the lack of involvement of participation in the process. The defence of the institutions is, in particular, that the Court uses an incorrect definition of pre-investment and that it is unfair to base that definition on statements made by those institutions themselves in the past by letter. That is not a very strong defence, but it does raise questions about exactly what was agreed in this process. That is why I would like to look at two institutions as a case. The first of these is the University of Amsterdam. The confidential Court of Auditors report on the UvA which can be found usefully on the UvAleaks website shows that the Court finds that only 14% of UvA's preinvestments are actually evidence of preinvestment. 14%, Mr President! In an explanatory statement to the participation also to be found on that handy UvAleaks "UvA" states: we adhere to our own definition and if you let go of your own definition, then it is true. Moreover, the UvA states that we were under the assumption that as institutions we were able to define what pre-investments were; previous letters from the VSNU in which direction is given are not legally binding and therefore not relevant. I think that this is a useful insight for agreements with institutions in the future. Then the University of Groningen. Student party DAG concludes after its own research that the entire preinvestment of 18 million from the University of Groningen in the form of masters and renovation of the university library, is not a de facto preinvestment. All these expenditures were already in documents for those amounts and deadlines before the loan system was introduced at all. If DAG is right about that, Groningen even gets a 0% score. Then there's a deal. The Board of the University of Groningen states to its own university council that there are oral agreements between VSNU and the Minister that existing investments could also be increased as pre-investments. So my first specific question to the Minister is: is this true? Are there, as she knows, oral agreements between domes of institutions and individual institutions on what pre-investments were made? And if there are, how come the General Court hasn't heard of this? How does the Minister himself see the criteria that colleges and VSNU laid down in more or less letters in 2014? Are these criteria, for example, which the General Court says are pre-investments? Or are those just comments? The reality is that universities have been in austerity mode for years and this year in particular. Next week, a petition against the latest austerity round will be submitted in this Chamber by students of the Humanities of Utrecht University. They see overworked teachers, a shrinking curriculum and small studies disappearing. Besides Utrecht there are Nijmegen, Amsterdam and Groningen. That is the reality, despite big words about investment. If I were to get a little up-to-date on the vote, I would be surprised if a university building would not be occupied again before the summer. Students and staff are angry. I can't blame them for that, because promise makes guilt. I've argued here before about the greatest unlucky generation of students. They are too old for student funding and too young for reduced tuition fees and have not yet received the promised investments. Isn't that a reason for the Minister to make another gesture to this group after all? I've made a proposal to that effect before. Last point, Mr President. We hear from some student organisations that there seems to be some administrators who want to use the study advance funds to compensate for the previous advances. So pay the advance with what they're about to get. We don't think that's what we're supposed to do. Would the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Meenen of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u4	Do you want to interrupt first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u5	Yes, an interruption by Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr President, I may have missed it, but I have heard very little about the participation part of Mr Futselaar's speech. It's about money and whether it's money or not... Perhaps I have heard it wrong, but can Mr Futselaar say something about how he looks at what the Court of Auditors says about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u7	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I'd love to, because I was running out of time, as Mr. Van Meenen may have noticed. So I wanted to save that for the second term. There is a problem and not just in the Court's report. You can still hear it, even in 2018: 25% of the participation councils are not involved at all in the budgetary treatment and in the budget setting. They have not used their right of assent. I find that very disturbing. One of the things that I would like to get out of this debate is a direction to make agreements, not only with individual institutions, but also with institutions about how we can secure that a little more. I am a little long in my answers, but, for example, if we want to use extra money for quality, we can show in the budget where that ends up, so that students can really determine that. I believe that this leads to satisfaction, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u8	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Meenen of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mr. Chairman. Good education develops, emancipates, makes curious, offers opportunities, and good education gives people the knowledge and skills for the world of tomorrow. Good education policy comes about when those who are at the heart of education, students and teachers, have a say in decision-making. The proper organisation of participation is important. Think of the discussion in Groningen around the Yantai campus. The board wants this, but students and teachers are strongly opposed to it, partly because academic freedom in China is at stake. The fact that students and teachers can participate in important decisions is the medicine to expose open nerves. A strong voice from them improves the quality of our universities and colleges. When the Court of Auditors recently concluded that little of the pre-investments promised had been made, I did not vote in favour. This money should have gone to the students, to smaller working groups and to more teachers. Now there is a question mark over a large number of these investments. The previous cabinet dropped at this point and the students are the victims. Fortunately, the new minister learns quickly. Clear agreements have been reached in the sector agreements recently concluded, so that new students will benefit from the extra money for higher education and participation will now really be given sufficient participation. What really upsets me was the conclusion that only half of the cases had students taken part in deciding on the main lines of the budget and also on the allocation of additional resources. For D66, that's unacceptable. How is that possible? How does the Minister feel about that? D66 considers it important that young people learn at an early stage how to decide what matters to them. After all, it's about their education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u10	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u11	Mr. Chairman. The D66 website still says that students can be happy with the loan system, because 200 million is invested per year. That didn't happen. And now I hear Mr Van Meenen say: what really bums me is about the endorsement side of the story. Yeah, that endorsement doesn't pay hundreds of millions. Could Mr Van Meenen be more explicit about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u12	I'm not the webmaster of D66, but it's okay, and I recommend that Mr. Van der Molen should really look at that website more often. I see this as a recommendation to freshen up the website. The new investments will undoubtedly have a place there, because there will be many more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u13	Mr Van der Molen, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u14	It's true that I don't always look on the D66 website for pleasure, but they're good colleagues in the coalition, so you do that a little more often. And it's true, the last change dates back to last year. In the meantime, we have a Court of Auditors report which states that one of the main arguments to convince students who are just between ship and ship that D66 has done the right thing, among other things, is 200 million. Then I find it disappointing that you say: yes, but about a small procedural arrangement. I agree with you that it has not been complied with, but I find that much worse. How do you explain that to students?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u15	There is a debate between the institutions and the Court of Auditors. I'm not going to interfere with that. I am following the Court of Auditors; I am not going to argue with it. I said I was displeased. Only, that's looking back. In my view, what is certainly so important is participation, because that is something we need to go on with, not just about the extra resources, but about the whole budget. I'm really worried when I see how that's handled. In any case, it is an incentive for me to say this, too, in order to ensure that all the resources that are going to be added now, but also the resources that are already there, that participation is taken extremely seriously, so that we can ensure that we do not get the same debacle there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u16	Let us indeed look to the future. I share Mr Van Meenen's view that participation is not a small point. But still, last week I was among a few hundred angry Amsterdam students. This is the generation that started in 2015-2016. I call that the "bad luck generation." As the Court of Auditors' report shows, they have not quite received what they were promised, let us put it this way. Does Mr Van Meenen see any possibility of doing something for this particular group? There will be amounts for future generations, that advance will come, but there is a cohort of students that you can say have the worst conditions of the past twenty years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u17	The problem is that we look at generic conclusions, overall. We cannot see exactly what the situation is like on each of these institutions. In the meantime, some things are getting clear. I really think that's a responsibility of the boards. I wonder what the Minister will say about that. I don't see any way of doing anything about that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u18	Mr Futselaar, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u19	I do not think it is the responsibility of the boards alone, because the boards have not abolished study funding. You did. When it comes to what these students get in return, it is also a legitimate question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u20	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u21	Don't you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u22	Study funding has not been abolished at all. You must not allow that image to exist here. There's another 2 billion a year going to the supplementary stock market. It should appeal greatly to the SP, because it goes much more to the people who need it. The additional grant has been increased by €100 per month. I do not have to say all this here, because Mr Futselaar knows that. But he summarizes it as "the study funding has been abolished." He really shouldn't, because that might discourage someone from going to college. Anyway, the intention behind that is not to take away the basic grant. The intention is to invest that money in education. In view of the Court of Auditors' report, we should be concerned whether this will happen with future resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u24	The future students certainly have an interest in this, but also the current students. That is what I would like to focus my attention and my energy on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u25	Your second interruption, Mr. Futselaar?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u26	I'm gonna keep that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u27	I had a hunch. Mr Özdil for his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u28	Mr President, I just had to control myself so as not to applaud Mr Van Meenen's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u29	I hear this a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u30	That does not surprise me, because he quite rightly raises the issue of student participation. It's been suspended from that. The General Court is clear about this and the students have also pointed this out all along. My question to Mr Van Meenen is, on the basis of the right point he raises, whether he believes that the current legislation and regulations, when it comes to the real participation of students, are sufficient or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u31	If it's all right with you, I'll get back to you in a minute. I'm gonna keep going at that point. I need to see where I left off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u32	Then Mr Beertema, for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u33	I would like to add my voice to Mr Futselaar's unlucky generation. You agree with the definition of the General Court. It is therefore a very legitimate question for you whether you are going to do anything. Do you still have a motion that will force universities and colleges to make that advance investment as defined by the General Court of Auditors?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u34	I don't have that motion in my sleeve. I just said what I said about it. I believe that governments should be responsible for their participation body, their students and teachers, for what they have done or have not done. There is also a debate for this. We don't know the exact situation. It's a debate. The Court of Auditors says one thing, and the institutions say another. I am not going to settle that debate from here. I think that's a responsibility of the boards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u35	Okay, so you're putting responsibility on the boards and the co-determination. But you have already indicated that only half of the possibilities have been used. Isn't it time for you, as a government partner, to take the lead?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u36	"Take the direction": I came to The Hague to get less The Hague in education, because more doesn't make things better in general. I've always tried to strengthen co-determination. So I'm shocked if this happens in half the cases. Mr Beertema summarizes it as if the participation councils did not take advantage of the opportunity, but I say that the boards have prevented participation from reaching full maturity. That's another situation. That is what I am going to continue with, precisely because it is so important for the resources that are now coming to the universities. We have to make sure they get in the right place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u37	Mr. Beertema still? No?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u38	Is that my phone ringing? Apologies, Mr. Chairman. Oh, it's my brother.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u39	I think it's time for an interruption after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u40	They're colliding worldviews, as they often do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u41	Mr Van Meenen continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u42	But it's nice, Mr. Chairman, that we're together to bring these clashing world views to something. We can keep colliding, but eventually we have to move on. And I'm moving on, Mr. Chairman. D66 considers it important that young people at an early stage... I have already said that, but I will say it again: D66 considers it important that young people learn how to decide on matters that concern them at an early stage. After all, it's about their education. But the law is unclear and contradictory on this point. Does the Minister agree with D66? What exactly falls under the main lines of the budget is a debate that is being held in many places. Everyone has their own ideas about it. That creates uncertainty. Does the Minister consider that the agreements made in the sectoral agreements remove these uncertainties? If not, is the Minister prepared to resolve this in a different way, for example by adapting the law, or at least by listing the different interpretations on this issue, in order to achieve greater clarity in the end? I'd like a response. Finally, I would like to talk about freedom of the press on institutions. In order to be able to participate as a student in the policy of an education, you need to be sufficiently informed. The Minister was very clear about this the other day. I quote: "Good own press is important to be able to ask critical questions as a student. This is why these independent media must be given a stronger emphasis." These statements make me curious and enthusiastic. I would like to hear from the Minister what ideas she has for developing the free press on institutions and giving a heavier emphasis. And what if that free press is violated at an institution? Does she think that sanctions or other measures should be applied? D66 sees a critical press as a very important tool, but at present participation and student media are not always able to gain and maintain sufficient insight into the way things are going. In 2013, as I understand it, research was carried out to introduce a right of inquiry for participation, i.e. a right to conduct own research. This ultimately resulted in the appointment of the Minister. As far as I am concerned, these are two different things. The designation authority comes from above. The right of inquiry comes precisely from the organisation itself. One can lead to another. Does the Minister agree with me? I would like to see an improvement in this and consider a motion on this point, but I will, of course, wait for the Minister's response first. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u43	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u44	Mr Van Meenen referred to the free press at institutions. It is quite right that he should do so, because that is a problem. The great research I quoted from Groningen hasn't made it to the university newspaper's website yet, I see. An article about Chinese food was published in Groningen today. I'm just saying. When I mentioned this earlier, the Minister said: I do think it is very important, but I think it is up to the institutions. Can I conclude from what Mr Van Meenen said that he no longer considers that answer acceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u45	When it comes to the free press?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u46	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u47	Well, acceptable: I can have some of this minister. I'm just waiting for her answer. From the words that the minister previously expressed in the independent medium of Utrecht University, I would say that we will hear reassuring words from her. I got the impression that she wouldn't let it go either, but I'll wait and see. By the way, I'd rather have a Chinese restaurant open in Groningen than Groningen start a university in China.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u48	Look, it's a nice round. Finally, Mr Futselaar?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u49	My interruption is allowed in two, so I might as well use it. I honestly suspected that the reason Groningen is 0% is indeed the fact that they needed all their resources for Chinese adventures. In my speaking time I had no time for that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u50	The circle is complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u51	I didn't investigate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u52	I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Whatever you promise, you have to do. It sounds simple, but the practice is sometimes a lot more uncomfortable. We can see that in the context of this debate. In 2014 we agreed on two things that students need to be sure of: higher education is and remains open to everyone and there is considerable additional investment in the quality of higher education, so that you get the best possible education. It was agreed with higher education that substantial pre-investments would be made in the period 2015-2017, so that all students covered by the new loan scheme can already benefit from quality investment. Those appointments were voluntary but not non-binding. The Court's investigation is hard in the conclusion that the investments promised have not been made or are insufficiently traceable or demonstrable. We find this disappointing, because in front of us these two conditions still stand as a house: accessibility and quality. That was and remains the case, even in the further implementation of the social loan system. For us, in this debate, there are a number of issues of interest to which we would like clarification or answer from the Minister. In her letter on the report, it is striking that the Minister does not really agree with the conclusion that out of the 860 million those institutions claim to have invested, a large part is not or could not be considered as actual preinvestment. The Minister focuses on the sectoral agreement with colleges, universities and student organisations. That is a good agreement for future investment as far as we are concerned, but how does it really assess the Court's conclusions? Does it also see that investments as agreed have not been carried out or have not been met? If so, what does this mean in concrete terms for these agreements and the necessary and agreed pre-investments? If it looks at it differently, why does it judge it differently from the Court of Auditors, which has looked at it extensively? Is it just a definition issue concerning the concept of pre-investment, as some seem to claim? By way of illustration, the Democratic Academy of Groningen has done research. Mr Futselaar mentioned it. Around 5 million additional investments would be made there, but according to documents it appears to be amounts already mentioned in previous documents as planned investment amounts. It was therefore not new or additional investments in the framework of the agreements. It seems to be indicative of the way in which, in some cases, institutions have included investments that they would have already made under the pre-investment arrangements. And that wasn't exactly what was agreed. The question is how the Minister deals with this. Does it recognise the signals that institutions have sometimes been creative in allocating certain amounts to the agreed investment statement? And what conclusion does she draw from this? How are we going to compensate lagging quality investments towards students over the years? In addition to clarity about what happened or did not happen around those pre-investments, the April agreement also called for strict monitoring. Much has been organized and strengthened around the role of participation; the previous speaker mentioned it. Can the Minister now guarantee that this participation is really well-organised at the moment, not only on paper but also in practice? Mr. Chairman. I want to avoid further discussions on definitions afterwards and what we mean by investments in quality. In this light, how does the Minister envisage setting up an independent investment committee, a committee which monitors progress and cooperation between institutions and participation during the duration of the investment? The Court of Auditors can, of course, examine everything, but that is always with retroactive effect, with a view to the past. As far as we are concerned, it is better to recognise and adjust this during the ride so that all students get the investments they need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u54	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u55	I would like to ask Mrs van den Hul how she now looks at the functioning of the Chamber and the previous minister, because it seems very much like the predecessor of this minister has actually just forwarded the information provided by the institutions to the Chamber one-on-one. I have to say that as a Member of Parliament I have not asked any critical questions about this either, but that does not seem to me to be the way to inform the Chamber. How does Mrs. Van der Hul look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u56	It is not the first time that Mr Van Meenen has asked me to reflect on the functioning of directors from the previous cabinet. To be honest, I don't think it's very nice to attack a minister who isn't here. Besides, the current minister is responsible, and we're lucky because he's in "K" tonight. Let's talk about the clarity of those figures and the accountability. The way I see it, I think we all agree that these figures are at least unclear. But what was known then was shared with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u57	It's not an attack at all, it's my class. Can we learn something from that? Should it again be the case that the institutions individually or the VSNU and the Association of Colleges of Education provide figures and that we all say 'it will be'? Or should we use some kind of instrument in order to be able to be critical of the institution itself or here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u58	That is why I propose that such an investment committee be set up. They can follow these investments independently and in real time or, as Mr. Bishop would say, in real time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u59	A small technical question, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u60	If it is a technical question, but you have already had two interruptions. I'll allow you to ask one specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u61	The clarifying question is: where is the committee? Will that be a committee here in The Hague or will there be a committee on every institution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u62	Of course, I'd like to leave that effect to the Minister. First of all, I would very much like to hear her reflection on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u63	Thank you. There is also an interruption by Mrs Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u64	I heard Mrs Van den Hul ask the Minister what the Minister would think of an independent investment committee. My question would be: how does she feel about that? We do know the PvdA as a party that believes in institutions, but what, according to Mrs Van den Hul, should this committee do differently or extra than the current system? What else is that gonna do and cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u65	We are, of course, very pleased with what the General Court is doing, but it is doing research into what has happened and that is always with a look at the past. Such a committee could, as far as we are concerned, focus on watching, as I just said, in real time, in real time. If it is found, for example, that there is a lack of participation or that agreements are not being complied with, it can be corrected immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u66	Doesn't Mrs Van den Hul see a huge system of accountability with ledger codes and meeting systems created by that? Or does Mrs Van den Hul think that could be lean and mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u67	I think it's a good thing Mr. Bishop isn't here because he'd get goosebumps from all the Anglicans. Lean and mean? I'm sure that should be possible. It is up to us to do something about transparency and we see that it is not sufficiently guaranteed at the moment. Whether that is a question of unclear definitions or of creative book keeping is a question that needs to be answered tonight. But what matters to us is that it becomes clear that the agreements are being respected in the interests of those students.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u68	Thank you. There is a second interruption by Mrs Tielen. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u69	I should like to say that Mrs van den Hul therefore believes more in new institutions than in existing groups and participation councils.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u70	Mrs Van den Hul, finally. I didn't see any question in it, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u71	No. That conclusion is up to Mrs Tielen. I do not share that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u72	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Özdil van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u73	Mr. Chairman. Upon the introduction of the study advance, it was agreed that in 2015, 2016 and 2017, colleges and universities will jointly invest €200 million per year in education quality, modern infrastructure and educational research. The Rutte II government then monitored compliance. But what happened to that? Colleagues have just pointed out that the General Court is clear about it. I quote: 'It is unlikely that the sector has achieved the promised EUR 600 million in pre-investment.' Only 280 million out of the 600 million agreed has been shown to be invested in what this money was intended for. In ordinary people's language: the deal has not been fulfilled. What went wrong? It went wrong because the input of the people involved, the students, was actually ignored in the design of the pre-investments. While the minister at the time was very positive about student participation, it was the same students who repeatedly called the bell and warned that they were not sufficiently involved and insufficiently facilitated. The National Student Union and the Interstedelijk Studenten Consuling are very clear: the involvement of participation in the pre-investments has often proved to be a bad thing. For example, pre-investments were not even explicitly the subject of discussion between participation and the board of directors in a third of the institutions. Those same institutions were very brief and very vague in how they accounted for the use of the pre-investment in their annual reports 2015 and 2016. I see Mr Van der Molen standing by immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u74	Thank you. Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u75	I got a warm feeling from Mr Özdil, in his plea...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u76	That's not rare either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u77	That's not rare, is your experience. I got a warm feeling from Mr Özdil when he said: the students have been ignored; that can't be done, the students have been ignored! Now there are a few students who have strongly opposed the loan system. And what was the reason that GroenLinks ignored them then?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u78	I love standing here tonight. I see here a Member of the Chamber of a political group which is part of the Rutte III Government, which apparently is a student. The Rutte III government, for which Mr Van der Molen has signed up, has also signed up for the study advance. In addition, Mr Van der Molen also signed the increase in the interest rate of the loan system. So when I hear Mr Van der Molen here turning against the study advance system, my second question is: are you pulling the plug from the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u79	Thank you. I hope not. Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u80	The division of roles is that people in this place ask the questions and that is where the answers come from. But you shouldn't blame me for trying to fix what was left behind by the previous deal on the loan system. Then there was one chance to do it right, and that opportunity blew GroenLinks. You just made sure that the basic grant went away and that the loan was received from the students, resulting in high student debts. And now you stand here very easily: the students are ignored, that is so bad!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u81	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u82	So I ask the question again: why was it good for GroenLinks then to ignore the students and now make such a point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u83	I have just made an extensive speech on agreements that were made at the time, agreements that have not been complied with. If Mr Van der Molen wants a debate on the study advance, I am happy to do so, but that means that he must now also admit that he is pulling the plug from the current cabinet. That present cabinet that maintains the study advance and also raises interest. That's not what we signed up for. On the contrary. So I think it is a little silly of Mr Van der Molen to pretend now that he is in favour of another system, while he himself has signed a government agreement with the current system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u84	Thank you. Mr. Van der Molen, you've already had your two interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u85	Mr President, with your agreement: if there are no answers but questions coming back, it will be very unusual to interrupt. So I would like to ask you one more time, Mr President, and I hope that I will get an answer, because more interruptions are certainly not given to me by you, why students should not be ignored now, but GroenLinks felt free at the time to ignore the student charges against the loan system. 'Cause you finally agreed...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u86	I'm going to interrupt you. This really is a third interruption. You don't have to answer this question, Mr. Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u87	We made clear agreements at that time. Agreements which have not been complied with, as has been pointed out over time, also by my group. So I think it's kind of lame.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u88	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u89	Van der Molen is a dissident, let's note that. Mr. Chairman. There are signs that investments already planned for the introduction of the study advance scheme have sometimes been identified as pre-investment. Colleagues have just pointed this out. Again in ordinary people's language: it seems that a lot of creative books were kept. Or is it "booked"? I don't know. This is because there was not even a clear definition of what a pre-investment is. According to GroenLinks there is also a bit of the crux. Students have been trying to get a clear definition of what a pre-investment is from the outset. In any case, the promise was that the students would be involved. But despite this promise, a full discussion with students about the use of pre-investments has not taken place. Mr. Chairman. When policy makers, directors and politicians make promises to people and then those promises are not kept, there must be a follow-up to that. GroenLinks' questions to the minister are therefore as follows. First of all... Why has the agreement on effective participation of students in the use of pre-investment not been complied with? Second. How will the Minister ensure that the remaining amount is still invested in accordance with the agreements? Third. How is the Minister going to ensure that students' participation in the use of the student advance funds will be in order from now on? Following on from Mr Van Menen, I would also ask the Minister if she is prepared to amend the law so that it can be guaranteed in future. So I mean that students should not say "yes" or "no" at the end of the journey, but that they should actually be involved from the start, with full transparency. The mistakes that the Court of Auditors points out must not be repeated at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u90	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Bertema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After the abolition of the basic grant, universities solemnly promised to invest in the quality of education as a concession to students. That was about the years 2015-2017, so that the current generation of "bad luck students" as Mr Futselaar calls them would also have something to do with the intended quality improvement. That was so fair. The General Court has carried out research into the extent to which colleges and universities have complied with the promised 600 million they would invest. That's what they promised the Minister. Not to just anyone, no, to the minister himself they had promised. This study shows that only one third of the declared EUR 860 million, EUR 280 million, falls within the scope of that commitment. EUR 250 million did not meet the framework set by the General Court and the remaining EUR 330 million did not even show up. We find that really unimaginable. The VSNU, the association of cooperating universities, naturally disagreed with the conclusions of the report and immediately drew a semantic smokescreen. The General Court would have used a different definition of "preinvestment" than the Association of Universities itself had agreed with the then Minister of OCW. We therefore ask the current Minister to clarify these different definitions. Is it true that the VSNU has agreed on a different form of pre-investment with the previous minister? We are wondering what the value of this research is, if these definitions of what pre-investment means are apparently subject to different interpretations. How can we then check whether the promised funds have actually arrived at the destination? The study of the General Court also shows that letting students take part in the decision on pre-investment leaves much to be desired. Progress is being made, and it is being said with caution. We welcome that, but it is still far too common for students not to be heard throughout the process. In order for students to experience real improvement in quality, they must, of course, be taken seriously when determining where these investments will end up. I would like to call on participation in universities to make the most of their possibilities. The Court's investigation does not show which universities and colleges have failed to fulfil their commitment to invest in improving education. As mentioned earlier, three members of the student movement have investigated the Democratic Academy of Groningen (DAG) and they have done very well to what extent the University of Groningen has kept the agreement. They have come to the conclusion, in line with the Court's findings, that the State University has not spent an additional cent from its own resources. That is the 0% that Mr Futselaar spoke about. It was assumed that already planned investments were covered by the pre-investments, which were already described in plans drawn up before the universities and colleges of higher education had undertaken to invest extra. The University of Groningen then returned the ball to the Minister at the time. According to the Board of the University of Groningen, it was in accordance with the agreements made that all investments, including those already planned, should be included in the pre-investment. My question to the Minister is whether this process is symptomatic of the institutions of higher education. This was a generic study, and we would like a similar examination of all the institutions, according to the definition used by the General Court. I would like a promise from the Minister that such an investigation will be carried out. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u92	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van der Molen of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u93	Mr. Chairman. We are talking here about a very worrying report by the General Court of Auditors. I imagine you'll get cranky if you've agreed to abolish the basic grant, and then a report like that will fall on your desk. I can also imagine you getting cranky as a student. About 150,000 university students and 270,000 HBO students who started their training in the years 2015-2017, suffer from the fact that some 300 million less has been invested than agreed. The report of the General Court has three aspects. The realization of these pre-investments, the involvement of the participation councils and the provision of information to Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u94	Thank you. There is a not entirely unexpected interruption by Mr Özdil. I give you the floor, Mr Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u95	My esteemed colleague Van der Molen started his speech with a sneak at parties who have achieved the study advance system. My question to him is once again: does this mean that he is pulling the plug from the current coalition agreement? I am thinking of the study advance system at all, and in particular of the increase in the interest rate of the study advance system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u96	No. You see, it's not that hard to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u97	I am glad that Mr Van der Molen clearly admits that he is contradictory in his statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u98	Definitely not. The only difference is that you can only do a decision right or wrong once. If the decision is made in this Chamber or you want to say goodbye to the basic grant, and then you make the mistake of voting for it, that's your fault. If you can then look in a coalition at what you can do for students to reduce the student debt, I am pleased that four parties in this coalition have agreed to halve the tuition fees in the first year, for example. For young people who choose to be in class later, this is even true for the second year. That is a very good one and I am proud that as a CDA together with D66, VVD and Christian Union we managed to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u99	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u100	Mr. Chairman. First of all, the wells-nothing game about whether the colleges and universities have realised their commitment to add up to EUR 600 million in additional investment. That was meant to ensure that the first generation of students who had to borrow would also notice the quality improvement. Both in the administrative response to the report and in the letter on quality agreements, the Minister made no mention of the fact that universities in particular had not complied with the commitment. Does the Minister agree with the CDA that students are disadvantaged? Does the Minister think that students should be compensated for this and, if so, what is she thinking about? Would it be possible, for example, to increase the amount of voucher these students have been offered at the expense of possibly other higher education plans or to agree with the institutions under the new quality agreements to make the missing pre-investment or to invest faster? I agree with what Mr Van Meenen said: it is difficult to say from here. You're gonna have to look at each institution. Does she have any other ideas on how to compensate students? We are considering tabling a motion on this matter. My second point is the legal maze surrounding the introduction of the right of assent of participation councils on the main lines of the budget. It appears that institutions have dealt with this differently. In the administrative responses to the report, it can be read that the colleges say that they were quite clear how to interpret the legislative amendment on the right of consent. The universities leave that in the middle again. We do not think that this rule is so difficult that participation councils have the right of assent. What does it say about an institution when it looks at the edges? I would like to know from the Minister whether universities have taken less responsibility than colleges. How will the Minister ensure that there will be a single line from now on? The final point is the provision of information to Parliament. The Court of Auditors is clear: it was too rosy and too firm. The Minister based himself on information from the school domes. I would have liked to see the role of colleges and universities different. They often want us to have more trust and less direction and interference. From the CDA we also think it is important that institutions are allowed to decide much more themselves. On the other hand, responsibility for the agreements is being taken and institutions are aware of the environment in which they make these agreements and, towards the minister, with whom too. This kind of reports and also a reaction from the dome as we've read them don't really help me to keep that trust, but I do. In its response to the Court's report, the Minister indicated that this would not be done with the study advance funds. I would like to know from the Minister what exactly she means by 'this'. Is this about informing the Chamber better or is that about directing what colleges and universities are going to do tighter? I don't think anyone here tonight is happy with the way it all went. Hopefully everyone here believes that students should at least not suffer. As far as the CDA is concerned, there is homework with the Minister and the institutions to see how.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u101	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Tielen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u102	Mr. Chairman. The stress is gone, but the tension is increasing for thousands of students waiting for the results of their final exams. Most have now applied for further training. They want to learn new things, new people, a new city. Study! They are going to invest time, energy and money in their future and in their education, and it is logical that they expect this training to be of good quality. They rely on quality and they want value for money, of course. The VVD also thinks you should be able to count on quality. So the key question is really what quality is. First, I will address this question in detail and then I have a number of questions to the Minister about the recommendations contained in the Court's report and its role in it. Darwin said it: it is not the strongest who survive and not the smartest, those who survive are the ones who can best adapt to change. This is precisely the objective of education in the VVD: to train people so that they can adapt to the changing world and to the changing labour market. And that doesn't mean running from school building to school building and ticking off to collect credits. No, you want to develop in schools that transfer knowledge and skills in a learning environment full of interaction and exchange, in order to learn how to respond to new jobs and new opportunities. Quality of education affects that objective, and this requires a number of things. I found it in the Strategic Agenda for Higher Education. I'm gonna light some of them out. Quality of education is about being able to choose a course that suits you, at an educational institution that suits you. Distinctiveness and differentiation are needed, between institutions, as Veerman also said, and between training courses: that you can opt for an education that is not just adequate, but excellent, where ambition for continuous improvement is part of the educational culture. Quality is about learning craftsmanship and skills that are up-to-date in occupations and sectors, about being digitally skilled. How this is sometimes really lacking has recently been demonstrated in ICT training. We have asked questions about this to the Minister. And it's about flexibility and entrepreneurship. During your training you will be stimulated to find opportunities and your own answer, for example with extra courses and more own direction on the curriculum. Does the Minister recognise these elements from the strategic agenda? To what extent has the Minister taken these elements into account in its negotiations on the sectoral agreements? I'd like a response. The Court of Auditors did not have the task of assessing the substance or of investing in quality. However, the Court recommends that the Strategic Agenda for Higher Education be used as a basis for future evaluations. We wholeheartedly endorse that recommendation. The Minister, too, I expect, but I'd like to hear it. To find out whether the quality promise of HBOs and universities is being fulfilled, accountability is needed. And not as it used to be, as far as we're concerned: boxes full of declaration forms and ledger codes in the parcel mail to The Hague. But not by filling in one acceptance giro and transferring all billions from the treasury to the sector under the motto "the more euros, the better" and then waiting to see if it makes a difference. Mr. Chairman. You know the VVD as a party that loves content and results, especially when it comes to quality education. That is why we have three questions to the Minister about accountability. One. What does the Minister of this Court of Auditors' report learn when it comes to focusing on visible quality improvements and how will they use them? Two. What does the Minister learn from this report when it comes to her own role in the responsibility of the sector, and how will she use it? And three. Does the Minister recognise the uncertainties mentioned in the reports as regards the role of participation? More has already been said about this. Does it intend to tighten up and thereby give more voice to students and teachers to talk about quality and its implementation? Finally, Mr President. In the coming months, this Chamber will discuss quality agreements and sectoral agreements with the Minister. I look forward to improving the quality and ensuring that we can all count on quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u103	Thank you. The Minister has indicated that she needs about five minutes before she can answer the questions. Still, I'm gonna give you a little more time. We're suspending the meeting until 8:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u104	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u105	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Court for its questions and comments. What exactly was the agreement on the study advance funds? In any event, it is agreed that the resources released from 2018 as a result of the introduction of the study advance will benefit the quality of education. I think it is important and I have repeatedly stressed it: that is a promise to students that we must deliver. That's what I stand for. What happened in the years before? I am going to answer as well as I can, but there are also questions like: was there an oral appointment? That is very difficult for me to find out, because I was not there myself, but I will come back to that later. In the period 2015-2017,the request was made to colleges and universities to make investments from their own resources. They took up that glove in order to prevent a generation from experiencing the introduction of the study advance, but would not be able to benefit from the use of the study advance funds. The improvement in quality did not have to wait. In doing so, colleges and universities were given the opportunity to decide for themselves how they made these pre-investments and how they financed them. That is why it was chosen at the time not to impose a definition of what was a pre-investment. This is crucial in this debate. We can find anything about that agreement; I'll just explain it to you for a sec. That is how it was agreed at the time: you are going to invest, but we do not agree on what this pre-investment looks like and how it is financed. The question was whether there were any oral agreements on this matter. I don't know. Let me put it this way. Each college or university also had a different starting point. So what could best be invested in could also best be determined at college or university. That made sense in itself. Where quality is at stake and where it is best to invest in quality, it is best to determine each institution. We have done the same in the quality agreement, because it makes sense to make that decision there. What did the Court of Auditors do next? It has its own definition. This leads to very different images of what pre-investments are and what has or has not happened. You can talk about that endlessly. In the debate on the General Court's report, the question was: is the General Court wrong? No, because they use a definition and have reported according to their definition. What have the institutions done? They had not received a definition, so they reported how they considered it should be introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u106	Thank you. There is now an interruption by Mr Futselaar. I also want to meet again: two interruptions in two. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u107	This is just a little too easy for me. It is not the case that the Court of Auditors has outlawed its definition. It says: we based this definition on two letters which were sent by the VSNU and the Association of Colleges in May 2014, if I am not mistaken, and from the points that have been taken from it, we have reached that definition. That's a reasonable assumption, I think. Doesn't the Minister agree that if institutions or domes of institutions say such a thing, it is not strange for the Court of Auditors to keep them to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u108	No, I can also follow the reasoning of the Court of Auditors, but also the reasoning on the other hand: that was not the definition as the institutions agreed with the Minister. After all, no definition was agreed. If you ask me now whether I would do it all again, looking back, I say no. That's why I did it differently. I'll come back to that later. But we have organised this process differently now, because it is not wise to have this discussion again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u109	Thank you. Mr Futselaar, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u110	I would like to thank the Minister, because this at least gave her a qualification in the process. That's clear. I'm still a bit searching, given the attitude of: we sent a letter once, but that was just a letter. My fear is a bit that in future we will have to conclude hard contracts with institutions to make agreements, because otherwise they will say things like: that had no legal status, so we have not kept to that. How does the Minister see the future relationship with institutions, when these things seem to need to be defined so precisely?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u111	I'll come back to that later. Now I would like to look at what it was like at the time, how we deal with quality agreements in future, how we have secured them better, and then I come to the question: what about participation? So I will come back to that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u112	Thank you. The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u113	Mr. Chairman. In order to ensure proper consideration of the pre-investment, it was agreed at the time that not only the institutional board but also participation would be given a role in this process. It had the right to give its assent to the main lines of the budget. In its report, the Court found that this process of consent was still under development. The Court of Auditors has also made valuable recommendations for the future. We have now taken these recommendations into account, because it is also crucial for future agreements that participation should be able to fulfil its role properly. It is important, for example, that the law is also intended to involve it at an early stage. I used this recommendation from the Court of Auditors on participation and the review of this process to see how we are going to do better in the future. For me, however, the local impact of the agreements and agreements on the study advance funds and how we are going to invest them are important, because it is necessary to determine where the investment can best be made at the level of the institution. Some of you have asked what has actually been invested. I understand that question very well. Because the situation was so, it sticks a bit. The Court of Auditors says a number of things about this and the institutions say a number of things about it. When the quality agreements are being drawn up, agreements will have to be made between the institutions on which investment is to be made, so that we can monitor what has been agreed in due course. What has been agreed must also be checked. So at the front of that process we will also have to look at what has already been invested. An institution will say: we have already invested this, so we add that together. There will also have to be decentralised discussions on what was going on at the time; where are these resources going? Of course, participation was involved. In particular, with regard to 2016, that process was not very mature. But we also had discussions with students about 2017, and this shows that it was well organised in all institutions. Some of you have asked: what if, among other things, that conversation shows that there is still insufficient investment? Mr Van der Molen spoke about compensation. Then these investments will still have to be made, because that is the promise made to students. We can't do that retroactively. We cannot say: we still have to invest in previous years. But we're gonna have to look at that closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u114	There is an interruption by Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u115	Minister Van Engelshoven knows me as someone who also reasons: from the bottom. So there may be some surprise about my approach, but this is not just an agreement between participation and the institution on where it is going. It's also a political agreement. It is supposed to be students as a group: fear not, you will also benefit from it. The Minister now states that she believes that investment should take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u116	If it turns out they're not done. That is not certain, by the way. On the basis of a report by the Court of Auditors, we cannot conclude that these funds were not invested. Let me make that very clear. The best conclusion we can draw is that we do not know, because there are claims that have been made along very different lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u117	Mr Van der Molen, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u118	At least we don't know how it went per institution. There are institutions that feel unsatisfied by the Court of Auditors, and institutions that will have less of that. I'll share that with the Minister. But what I do not share with the Minister is that she, as successor to her predecessor, does not also have an agreement with those institutions. You say that these investments must be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u119	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u120	My question to the Minister is how, as the holder of these agreements, she will ensure that those investments that are rightly still to be made will also be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u121	You're already getting ahead of yourself. This is a bit like the if-dan question: what are you going to do if it turns out that... The difficulty of this discussion on the basis of the Court's report and of the previous agreements is that the agreements were at the time such that we did not... The Court of Auditors used a definition, but no agreement was made with the institutions along the lines of a definition at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u122	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u123	Mr. Van der Molen, wait a minute; the minister wasn't ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u124	So you can now determine neither one nor the other with certainty, I think. That's the complicated part. I find that complicated too, because there was no agreement at the time on how we define 'pre-investment'. By the way, the Chamber knew that at the time. The choice was made at the time to do so with not too much burden and bureaucracy. The deal had to be made quickly. It was a deal we wanted to make politically. In doing so, we were actually dependent on the institutions' willingness to invest from their own resources or to convert investments, so to say: we would invest in them, but let us do so now in quality. However, as a general picture, you cannot conclude that this has not happened, because each institution will have to show what was agreed in the budget at the time about the pre-investment. Then there is also clarity about this investment. We will also see, when we get the details of the quality agreements, whether we get the signal from the students: there is a certain claim on the table, but we see something else in the facts. We'll have to see about that. But the conclusion that it did not happen cannot be drawn, because at the time, even with the knowledge and agreement of the Chamber, an agreement was made which was not based on a definition, in which it was not clear what we understood underneath it. That is what I find very complicated about this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u125	Mr Van der Molen, concluding. No, excuse me, it's your second interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u126	"The Chamber" is an easy concept, because there are majorities and minorities. That's just the first point. The second point is that we can have a discussion about who is right, but you are the minister in front of the Chamber, and you want to control the Chamber. That's why I'm asking the question. The Chamber is therefore still party. Hence the question to you. Another party is the student, who is now sitting between a minister who doesn't know it, institutions who have different experiences, and a Chamber you say can't figure it out. And the students miss the investments. So I would like to ask the Minister: are the students not simply duped, and do you not owe it to them to see if you can still make arrangements to correct what went wrong? You haven't answered that question yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u127	My answer to that is: I cannot say that now. We do not know that, because the Court of Auditors establishes something on the basis of a definition that you should actually say: that was not the agreement made with the institutions. So there are figures against each other. In the future, when the quality agreements are being implemented, we will have to see if there is agreement. In 2017, there was also involvement of participation in these agreements. At least the institutions knew what had been agreed and so it is possible to check whether these agreements have been complied with. But we cannot now conclude here that students did not get what was agreed at the time, because the definition at the aggregated, national level was not in line with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u128	Mr Van der Molen has a point. The Court of Auditors indicates that at least 250 million out of the 600 million committed or, as the institutions say, the more than 800 million committed has not been met. It doesn't matter what definition you use, but 250 million didn't. The Minister is then right to say that the General Court indicates that it is a question of some 330 million. But let's leave that aside for argument's sake. It concerns the 250 million, of which it is clear, whatever definition you use, that it has not been complied with. My question, like Mr Van der Molen's, is: is the Minister prepared to at least ensure that the 250 million, which clearly has not been met, is still invested in educational quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u129	I also think that Mr Özdil's conclusion is too clear, because the Court of Auditors draws that conclusion on the basis of a definition which cannot be said to be the definition. What is to be done about quality agreements? All the institutions will have to draw up a plan and the multiannual budget will have to show how they are committed to the study advance funds. They will follow the following reasoning: "The study resources will now be available. As an institution, we get an X share in that. But we've already invested part of it. So the sum total is this." It may be that there is a debate about whether it actually happened in this way. The annual reports will then have to look at what was agreed at the time. Is this really about new investments? Have they been carried out, too? If not, it will still have to be included in the quality agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u130	Mr Özdil, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u131	I don't think we've read the same report. The General Court is quite clear: the 250 million has not been invested in accordance with the agreements. And that's how you define it, for example as "pre-investment." The Minister has a whole battery of officials to prepare this debate. If we are going to have another discussion here on whether the 250 million, of which there is no doubt that it is not in accordance with the agreement, is in line with the definition, what are we doing? Perhaps we should suspend for a moment, Mr. President, so that the Minister can... Otherwise, we're kind of having a non-discussion here. Whatever definition you use, that 250 million has not been invested in accordance with the agreements. The 330 million is a matter of doubt; let me put that aside. But if the Minister denies that the 250 million was not invested in accordance with the agreements, then we are having a non-debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u132	The Minister is talking about her own words. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u133	I can't make it prettier than this. That is the complexity of this debate. At the time, the agreement was made that there would be pre-investment and that there would not be any agreement on what they would look like. Then there will be a report from the Court of Auditors. It has also said on the basis of a number of letters: this is the definition and on that basis we draw a number of conclusions. Then you can't put it next to each other and say: that's not quite right. The lessons I have learned from this are that we need to be more precise about this. That's why we're doing that more precisely now. But you cannot now draw the conclusion at aggregated level that that amount is too little. It's really going by institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u134	Thank you. Mr Bertema for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u135	I think it's gonna be a bit embarrassing. The General Court is an institution with great authority and with a lot of very smart people who don't go ice over one night. In fact, as a parliament, as a government auditor, we very often base ourselves on the results of reports from the General Court. What I now think I hear is that the Minister says that the General Court has been wrong. That must have been a very unpleasant conversation, I can imagine. Can you say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u136	That's not what I'm saying either. At the time, colleges and universities responded to the call made on them to make pre-investments. An agreement was then chosen at sector level, also because the financial position of the institutions was very different and they had to look very closely at how it could be done. It also depends on its reserves to what extent an institution is capable of doing so. The Court of Auditors used a definition applied to all institutions in its report. However, no national definition was applied in advance to allow the institutions to opt for their own approach together with participation. The Court then stated in its report that the total investment of 860 million was potentially devoted to investment in the quality of education. But more important than that conclusion is the question of whether these investments are well coordinated with participation. Has that been agreed? Do we see this collectively as a pre-investment in the quality of education? Again, that's the complicated part of the deal that was made at the time. According to the definition used by the Court of Auditors, it is best to reach the conclusion of the Court of Auditors. But that is not a definition agreed with the institutions at the time. I can't make it much prettier than that. Yes, if you're asking me if that's how I did it at the time, I'd say it would have been nice if we had a little definition. That is why we have now learned lessons about quality agreements and are doing much better in another way. I think it's good to get that right here. How can we apply the lessons we learned from that process so that we do not have that uncertainty again? The Court of Auditors says about the 860 million that 250 million of them are not actually pre-investments. They don't say that's not an investment in the quality of education. They don't say. It's not a pre-investment. Then there will be 600 million of which they say: that is a pre-investment or that it could be, but we have not been able to figure it out. If you take that together, you could say that the deal is fulfilled. The annoying point we are facing here is that we cannot establish this because at the time an agreement was made by my predecessor which is difficult to control at this aggregate level. I can't make it prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u137	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Beertema to conclude his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u138	I appreciate the fact that every college and every university has a different starting point. Of course it is. But I was able to live excellently with the definition used by the Court of Auditors. But they're getting away from that now. I keep finding that very embarrassing. And we can say that the 250 million are quite well placed, but how are we going to proceed with this debate? How are you going to proceed without that definition being made clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u139	I understand that Mr Beertema says that he can live with the definition used by the Court of Auditors. I get that. Only, that's not the definition my predecessor agreed to. You would almost say: if only they had used that definition, because then many things would at least have been clearer now. We learn lessons from that. At the time there was an appeal made on the institutions, because in fact you could not force it very much. Across the board, people were pleased that this agreement could be made. It has failed to make a very clear definition for the Court of Auditors of how we are going to do this at aggregated level. With you, I say that the definition of the Court of Auditors would be a good thing to live with. It'd be pretty good, but you should've agreed to it in advance. You cannot take afterwards settings the size along the line of a definition that is not given at the front. I understand the inconvenience of the institutions about this. Again, would it have been better if that had been clearer in advance? I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u140	Thank you. Mr Beertema for his second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u141	I hear the Minister saying a lot of words. But my conclusion is that the agreements and promises made to the students are far too non-binding. It's been a very noncommittal story that everyone can get along with, except the students. That's my conclusion. The way I hear it now, I no longer expect this unlucky generation to be compensated. That's still the unlucky generation. There is far too little in return, and I deeply regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u142	Once again, a conclusion is being drawn, but the tricky thing in this debate is that we cannot draw it like this. Even if you look very closely at the Court's report, there will be 600 million. We have to say that the Court of Auditors finds that some of this has been pre-invested and perhaps some of it. But that is not the way the Court of Auditors is going to find out. So the conclusion you're drawing is a premature conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u143	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Futselaar for his second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u144	I'm getting a little bit off track, too. In my view, I have heard the Minister say two things: I think that pre-investments that have not been made and have been promised should still be made. One: I have no way of checking whether or not the promised pre-investments have been made. If that second thing is true, I think the first thing is a meaningless statement. As a follow-up to that, I think the Minister also said: if institutions, when they release advance funds, say that they have already spent it on pre-investment and it does not turn out to be pre-investment, then I have a difficult problem with them. At least that's what I heard. But if you're gonna check that, I think you're gonna get back to the Court of Auditors' report. That had a very simple definition of pre-investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u145	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u146	Isn't that reasoning conclusive?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u147	No, I do not think your reasoning is conclusive, because you are once again in favour of the definition of the Court of Auditors. The point is, you can't do that at aggregated level. 'Cause again, as annoying as it is, I don't think you can pay off on the basis of an appointment you didn't make at the front. That's gonna have to be clear. I will come straight to the question of participation, but we have actually asked the student organisations about this. When it comes to approving the budget, we get the impression that it went quite well in 2017. There are always points of improvement, but it has gone quite well. So you can have another discussion about 2016 at least in that year, but they are often multi-annual investments... you can have that discussion with each other at the institution level. I think it is too early to draw all kinds of like-dance conclusions in the sense of "if it is adopted now, then..." No, let us first ensure that the debate is held on the better agreements as we have laid down in the quality agreements. We will then be able to see if there will be any debate on the subject of pre-investment for each institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u148	Mr Futselaar, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u149	Do I understand from that that the Minister considers that the follow-up debate on how these pre-investments have been spent is solely a matter for the institution and that it will not, for example, come forward with a study advance in a follow-up process, perhaps with its own definition or measuring bar?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u150	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u151	Once again, it is becoming very complicated to monitor a process afterwards on the basis of a definition that my predecessor has failed to make. However, it is possible to look at what has been done in recent years, where these funds came from, and whether we consider this to be a good advance investment. You also know that, contrary to what has happened so far, we have agreed on a fairly clear process of accountability as to how it is going to be done in the near future and not only whether it has been done properly, but also whether the money is spent on what it is intended for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u152	Thank you. Just a word from me. The Members of Parliament and the Minister are, of course, concerned with their own words, but I do sense a lot of repetition. So you're talking about your own words, including the Minister, but I'm sensing some repetition. Mr Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u153	Yes, Mr President, that is perhaps why I would like to make a point of order. The Minister agrees with the part of the pre-investment which the Court of Auditors says was invested in accordance with the agreements. That part confirms the Minister. So then that definition is suddenly OK, but when it comes to the 250 million of which the General Court says, apart from definitions, that at least they have not been invested in accordance with the agreements, the Minister says: oh no, that is a definition issue. So what is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u154	This is not a point of order. I think this is a substantive question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u155	Yes, because we can't have a debate otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u156	Let me make this clear: this is not a point of order. I'm giving the Minister a chance to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u157	What I was trying to tell you is that there is layering in the Court's judgment. Here we are trying to draw the conclusion: so these pre-investments have not taken place. You can't draw that conclusion. There is a difference of opinion between the Court of Auditors on different amounts. Where the Court of Auditors says 'there really is a pre-investment' they have found that additional investments in quality have been made and it is one-on-one in that definition. Look, ultimately, at a decentralised level, the conclusion must be drawn whether a pre-investment has been made at an institution or not. No matter how you turn or turn it, you can't control something along a definition at sector level if that appointment isn't made in advance. So I was trying to make it clear that the conclusion that the deal has not been fulfilled cannot be drawn in this way. That's what I'm trying to do here all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u158	Thank you. In conclusion, Mr Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u159	Yes, Mr. Chairman, with all due respect, I'm a little off track. You can't say, when it suits me, that definition is okay, but when it doesn't suit me, the definition isn't okay. So I would really like to ask the Minister in the interest of this debate to be a little consistent. The Minister says about the 250 million of which the General Court says that at least they have not been invested in accordance with the agreements, that it is a definition issue. But it cannot say at the same time that the part of which the General Court says has been invested in accordance with the agreements is in line with the definition. I mean, we don't have a debate like that. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u160	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u161	Mr President, as you said, we are repeating a great deal. I'm sticking to what I said before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u162	I believe that I am the only one left here of the parties that have introduced the new loan system, as I would call it. Let that be a warning not to get into this kind of thing too quickly. At the time, a very fragile agreement was made on this point. At national level, it has been said, also by the institutions, that 200 million per year would be invested, but no individual agreement has been made with the institutions. In an unclear definition, it is up to the institutions themselves to decide what is happening. On the other hand, the institutions themselves have also defined what they mean, and the Court of Auditors has looked at this. As far as we can verify, it may not have been achieved at national level. I also said it in my own contribution. I do not see any possibility of repairing it from here, with general measures. Unless there's a bunch of cash going from here to the institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u163	Thank you. And the question to the minister is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u164	That's what I'm getting at, because this is very relevant. This is my only interruption. I believe, like the Minister, that this should be done at local level. As far as I am concerned, that discussion can still take place. But is the Minister prepared to share the Court's data with the institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u165	It's a public record.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u166	However, I do not think that the public report provides any insight into the data of the individual institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u167	I assume that the individual institutions will share with their participation what they have delivered to the Court of Auditors. I think it would be useful to have a good discussion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u168	To be honest, I'm not assuming that at all. If that's the case, I think that's fine. If there's one thing we can do, it's make sure that the conversation that has to take place can also take place optimally. That's just what this data is for. They're here and I don't see any reason to keep that data in private. The institutions have them, let the co-determination have them, and then let that conversation take place there. Again, I think that's the only way out of this situation. Now that national agreements are made again, I think it would be the worst thing we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u169	I agree with Mr Van Meenen that the discussion about how it really happened can only be meaningful at a decentralised level. It is good to share the data that the institutions have with participation. By the way, for the record, I don't have that data. I will urge the institutions to ensure maximum clarity about what has happened in recent years. We can then make a good start with the new quality agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u170	I would also like to suggest to the Minister that he ask the Court of Auditors to share this information. I think that's a possibility, too. If she can reach that agreement with the institutions, it is good. I don't care which way it comes, as long as it comes. However, we should not rule out the fact that the Court of Auditors is a party to it, whether through the Minister or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u171	Thank you. With your permission, Mr Futselaar, I'd like to give the Minister a chance to answer this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u172	I have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u173	I suspect a substantive question, but go ahead if it's really a point of order, Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u174	I think the General Court is working for us. If we want that information to come up, we must give it and not the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u175	This too, I believe, was a request to the Chamber, which, of course, you can always do through the procedural meeting. This was not a point of order. The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u176	In my view, the Court is indeed free to request information from the Court of Auditors. In any case, I will urge the institutions to share a good picture of what they have invested in quality in recent years. I think they have every interest in that. If it is right, this has also become apparent in the budgets and has already been taken into account in the participation process. But I will ask them once again to do so as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u177	In our beautiful Education Committee we often face a dilemma. On the one hand, we want to check that the money goes well and, on the other hand, we want to give institutions the freedom to spend it as they see fit. That same dilemma we see here. I indicated in my input that there is a very big difference between voluntary and non-binding. These agreements were voluntary, but not non-binding. I hear the Minister say that we are going to make good on the new agreements and that the quality impulse does indeed get where it belongs. I would very much like to hear from the Minister a little more about how she will ensure this. How do we ensure that the conditions are met? A number of cross-compliance conditions are now not met. One of the points is participation. I fear that I am somewhat less optimistic than the Minister about the number of institutions that give full transparency and full insight into things. How does the Minister, on the basis of her responsibility, guarantee that process optimally?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u178	This seems to me a good time to move on to participation and to how we have ensured in the quality agreements that things will be better in the future than they have been in the past. I come back to this question. This requires some explanation of how it has been secured in the various areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u179	It does not cost you any interruption, Mrs Van den Hul, but I would ask you to give the Minister the opportunity to tell her story further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u180	There's two sides to it. How do we put participation in a good position and how do we organise the process of quality agreements in such a way that the uncertainty that exists now no longer exists? I'd like to explain that. An important question this evening is how we dealt with the lessons from the Court's report. Mrs Tielen was right to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u181	I would like to make a procedural comment. You're about to start a new block. I think there is a need for interruptions, but a number of people are through their interruptions and sometimes make points of order to ask a question. Let me, in all freedom, allow one more interruption per spokesperson, if they can be a little shorter. I see happy faces and give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u182	Mr. Chairman. The General Court concluded that students could only take part in decisions on the main lines of the budget in half of the cases. The question is, what's that about? Mr Van Meenen also asked whether the law on this issue is not too unclear. I have discussed this with both the domes and the student associations. The picture we now have is that all the participation councils at both universities and colleges have given their agreement to the main lines or the entire budget of 2017. The Court's finding is not about 2017 but about the year before. It is not the case that the law on this issue is very contradictory. The explanatory memorandum to the Study Advantage Act states that this is a culture of involvement, in which governance and participation talk about the direction of the institution. In the spirit of the law, this means that you will discuss the direction of the institution with each other as early as possible in the process, including the main lines of the budget. What is the time when formal consent should be given? This can be done in the main budget, but also in the whole budget. There is no need to allow the whole budget to be approved; in that case, students are actually granted more rights. It may be possible at that time, but it is of course not the intention that the conversation should take place only at that time. That's not the intention of the law. In some institutions, we see that participation does have the right of assent to the whole budget. The law gives the room to give consent at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u183	There is an interruption by Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u184	I don't think that's such a good idea. I really think it is very important that this discussion should begin and that that agreement should really be given on the main lines of the budget. If you give it only on the budget itself, it will be a rush at the end of the year. Then it's way too much about details. Then the question is no longer: are we going to put millions more into staff or into buildings? No, you'll get the little discussions about the budget. I really don't like that in the law. I myself am responsible for it being so, but, in retrospect, I think that this is a great deal of confusion, just when these guidelines appear, because then you can push it away later, if it is actually all too late. That's one. Two: I often hear that there is a debate at institutions on whether or not the allocation model is part of the main lines of the budget. I say that the allocation model is basically the main line of the budget. That discussion indicates to me that it may be worth exploring the problems and whether there is a need to clarify the law on that point and perhaps on other points. I'll ask the Minister how she looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u185	So what do we mean by the main lines of the budget? The law defines what should be included at least, namely the allocation of resources envisaged by the administration for the financial year on the basis of the distribution principles in the following policy areas: education, research, housing and management, investment and staff. These are the main lines of the budget. The intention of the law is that these guidelines should be discussed at an early stage. How do we divide resources between education, research, housing and management, investment and staff? That's the purpose of the law. What those parts are, they're very clearly captured.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u186	A beautiful sentence, even more so, I wrote it myself. It was our demand that that right of consent would become part of the study advance Act. Then there had to be such a sentence. What I understand from today's practice is that it works fairly well, but that there is above all one point of discussion in a number of institutions: is the allocation model now part of the main lines of the budget? Apparently, drivers find that complicated. I'd like to ask the Minister to take a look at that. I find it almost contradictory if you look at the main lines of the budget, but not at the allocation model. Again, that's pretty much the same for me. I also find it very difficult to agree at the end of the year. That is why I am asking you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u187	In addition, perhaps unnecessary: in the sector agreements, I agreed that the study appropriations should also be included in the main lines of the budget which should be approved. That makes sense to me. Do we need to highlight more strictly the fact that there really is a need for explicit agreement in the discussion on the main lines so that we can ensure that this discussion starts early? If you ask me to explore that allocation model, I would like to go into consultation with the domes and the students to see if it is necessary to anchor that more firmly in the law to make sure that things are really going well in this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u188	There was just a small debate on the role of participation in the budget. In addition, I particularly wonder to what extent participation under the law has a good role in the accountability or in the annual reports. The General Court also has a very important role to play in this and I believe that this should be given a good place. I would like to hear the words 'accountability' and 'annual reports' in this debate. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u189	Yes. You ask the question now, but otherwise I would have come to speak separately. We have agreed on quality agreements, both on the process of reaching the plan and on how accountability is to be made. Mrs Tielen is quite right, of course. That is exactly what we need to learn from the Court of Auditors' report. That is why the discussion about the plan is as important as the discussion about accountability. Can participation also check that what has been agreed has actually happened? From 2019 onwards, the institution will have to account for the quality agreements in the annual report, which will cover both the content, the process and the arrangements with the participation on the use of the study advance funds. So it is not just about content, because it is also about the process that we have to answer for. Participation can also be reported independently in an annex to the report on the use of these study aids. I think that appointment is very important, because it shows you whether there is a light between what you think. I think that is a fairly relevant observation, because something goes wrong somewhere when there is a lot of light in between. The institutions must also include a multiannual budget in their plan, so that we also have a multiannual view. It is also an important difference from the previous period that we have explicitly given the NVAO a role in monitoring: are these agreements made in accordance with the quality agreements made with the Minister? I say to Mrs Tielen that in these areas we can draw on the categories of the strategic agenda. In fact, we have agreed on additional investments in quality and they are therefore in line with those categories. The NVAO will report on this, even now not only about the content but also about the process. This gives us a clearer picture of what we have agreed on per institution. Are we delivering what has been agreed and has the process of achieving this been a good one? My hope and expectation is that then we will have the annoying discussion we are having today... I also find it very annoying that... I can already see Mr Özdil watching, but of course I do not mind having a debate with you! However, it is unpleasant for all parties that at the time they failed to properly record the process: what should be adhered to and how do we report on it? As a result, we actually have a discussion of: yes, we actually know a lot, but we cannot establish it exactly. That is why it has been my commitment to really better record that. That's where we really... Let me put it this way: I would have hoped that this could have been done without the Court's lessons, because it was all my efforts before that report came out. Mrs van den Hul says: perhaps you are a little too optimistic about how this participation will work. Look, the student organizations didn't sit at the table for nothing when we made the arrangements. I was very committed to this and they have made a very good contribution to it. That is why we have agreed on the minimum time available to them. But not only that, because we have also agreed to create a point of contact that can ensure that participation per institution is really supported in a very good way in order to fulfil its role. That is being shaped at the moment. I am very attached to that. I believe that they can learn, for example, how to understand the main line of a budget. It's important that they get really good support for that. In this way we can not only see that the right of consent will work out, as we did before 2017, but we can also see that the process really has quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u190	Thank you. An interruption by Mrs van der Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u191	We agree with the Minister that it is very important to really facilitate participation in her role and to accompany her in doing so. Nevertheless, my question to the Minister is still: what if the commitments made are not met? What if it turns out that institutions do not invest in that quality? What if there are students who do not see enough of that in their college boards, as is the case now for a large group of students? What's the minister gonna do? And what does she do for the students for whom this is the case? Some of my fellow Members have given examples of this. Students say that we are of this intermediate generation and we do not notice that. What does the minister do for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u192	I have made very clear agreements, which you can read in the quality agreements made, for what happens if institutions fail to comply with them. I have also made a clear agreement in advance on how that should look and how we are going to check it. In the quality agreements, therefore, we have made agreements in the event that institutions do not comply with the agreements. Then they will have time to improve that; I always like that. If we do not do that yet, which I do not expect, because we have talked this through very well, then we are going to see less of these resources. Because I do not want students to suffer, we have agreed that these resources will benefit the quality of education, for example through the Comenius programme. In this way, I have ensured that we will not end up in a debate like this tonight about how I see it, because we have said very clearly: this is the agreement, so we are going to check it, and this is what happens if that agreement is not kept. We are going to have the debate on these agreements, but I think this is a very clear agreement, which, in my view, takes account of the lessons the Court of Auditors gives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u193	And what does that mean for the current generation of students, who are still waiting for these investments and in some cases have been waiting for nothing for a long time? What can the Minister mean for that group of students who are now listening?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u194	I shall come back to the debate we have had before. Mrs van den Hul now draws a conclusion which I, perhaps in many words, always try to make clear that she cannot draw it. It makes that conclusion too short. On the basis of the Court of Auditors' report, we cannot make that observation. You cannot establish this in this way either, because in the past my predecessor should have made clear agreements on exactly what that should look like. There are no such agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u195	Mrs. Van den Hul, for your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u196	Mr President, I see you looking. I will respond to you and not start the same debate again. I believe that we can talk to the Chamber about this in circles for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u197	Thank you for your understanding, let's conclude. I will give the floor to the Minister again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u198	Mr President, it is very often the case with questions like that: if you cannot establish it, then it is not very sensible to reason about it. Mr President, a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u199	Before you begin, I see that you have another interruption by Mr Van der Molen. About the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u200	The minister was talking about the as-the-dance reasoning. I have asked her earlier and in the exchange with Mrs Van den Hul that question came back to me. I'd like to make that clear. For you have also made a statement with "if," namely: compensation must still take place "if" it has not been done. I would very much like to weigh up what the Minister meant if she now says she can't mean anything to this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u201	Once again, it is going to be a huge repetition, but at the moment we cannot see whether the expectations generated by an institution have been fulfilled exactly like this, yes or no. All I can do is say that if the conversation is conducted per institution, we need to see if there is a clear picture. That is also in the multiannual budget. There was also agreement by the participation last year on whether the investments were made. I assume that if participation in 2017 approves a budget containing pre-investment, it has been critically questioned. In the end, we will have to determine, per institution, whether the amount from the educational resources that that institution receives has actually been spent on the quality of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u202	Thank you. In my view, the Minister has just summarized what she had already said in several words. So I'm giving you a second chance to interrupt, Mr. Van der Molen. But I really want to ask you not to repeat the whole discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u203	Then I'll touch the Minister's answer. Then we're not gonna have that discussion again. The Minister states that we cannot do it at this time and that participation should at least have looked at it. In any case, this applies to participation which had the right to vote on the main lines of the budget. But they didn't all have that. That's what the report says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u204	In 2017, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u205	The Minister said we can't do it at this time. What could the Minister do to get that picture clear so that we can get out of the circle that we are in this evening?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u206	I think we're starting a new round of quality agreements. This, of course, involves the question of pre-investment, because that also determines how to proceed with the study advance funds. These resources are now coming and going to the institution. The institution will have to have a good story if it says: we have already done this part in the pre-investments and we will build on that. If there is any disagreement about this, we shall at least see it in the reports of participation in the annual report. I'm assuming the NVAO is going to find something about the trial at that time. But I think it is premature to ask what exactly we are going to do if. Let's see what comes out of it first. I understand everyone who says "we would have liked to see this differently," but I started with a reality that is no different. The only thing I have done is to ensure that what the Court of Auditors now finds, in the vein of 'gosh, that could have been really different', is properly secured. Those are the agreements I have made, and I will answer for them in your Chamber. Mr Van Meenen had another question about the right of inquiry for participation. He knows very well that earlier, in 2013, that possibility was investigated, because that's what he said himself. It was then found that the granting of that right would create an imbalance in the checks-and-balances of participation, the supervisory board and the inspection of myself. I think I still agree with that observation. As you know, that designation was then created. However, the information right of participation has recently been strengthened in the Law strengthening administrative power of educational institutions. It provides for participation to be requested and for all relevant information to be provided unsolicited. However, I am not inclined to reconsider that right of inquiry at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u207	I hope that the Minister agrees with me that an appointment of the Minister himself is quite different from, for example, the right of inquiry, for example, participation. So I do not know how that one inquiry into the law of inquiry gave rise to this power of designation. But now, as a case, let us look at the situation in Groningen, where participation is desperately trying to get information but does not get it. What would be the way to achieve this if it did not happen through a right of inquiry?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u208	In fact, the right to information has the right to participate, but I should check that on the basis of the law. If we find that the law is not being complied with somewhere, you should, in the extreme, implement it through an instruction from the Minister. That's a very heavy drug, I'll give you that. I would rather say: then I am inclined to have a strong conversation with drivers first. You have to come from a very good house if you're going to give a clue as a minister. You can also look an institution board in the eye at such a time and say: 'You have a legal obligation to provide information, and I expect you to comply with it. Otherwise, I have an unpleasant debate with Mr Van Meenen, and I need to ask questions that I would prefer not to ask." My experience is that you usually come a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u209	Thank you. Mr Van Meenen, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u210	The relationship between the right of inquiry, whether or not it exists, and the power of designation is now becoming clearer to me. The Minister actually says that if such a board does not comply with the statutory obligation to provide information, I can use my powers of direction. But I'm not sure if that's true, because you can't use that designation power at random either. That's quite an instrument. Would the Minister be prepared to inform the Chamber or the Committee by letter of exactly what this power of designation is like and how it relates to the right to information about participation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u211	That's what I want to do. In 2013, the balance was struck between the two resources we have. I will inform you once again in a letter of how things stand against each other and what exactly can and cannot be done with this power of direction. Then you can draw your conclusion on the basis of that letter whether you think that is sufficient instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u212	Thank you. May I ask how far you are in your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u213	I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u214	Well, well, well. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u215	Since many of you are rightly critical of whether the position of this participation is now sufficient, it is good to report that we are now also evaluating this biennially in the monitor. Should that lead to a strengthening of that position, we really must have the debate on it. Mr Futselaar asked whether I could discuss with the institutions whether the arrangements for participation would be sufficient to exercise that right of assent properly. At the moment, we are really doing what we can to support this by all kinds of means. On the one hand, through a window that can be opened, by extending the hours and, on the other hand, by ensuring that the NVAO has been able to monitor the progress of the process and whether it has had sufficient quality. If that is not the case, then the institution is at best at risk of doing so. I have also indicated that they will really do their best to do so in a good way. Mrs Van den Hul asked about the independent guidance committee. I have just explained that we have given the NVAO an important role in that supervision. I do not think that an independent advisory committee would add anything to that. The NVAO is very independent and knows how to monitor quality in higher education, so it is already provided for through the NVAO process. Finally, Mr Beertema asked me for a list of what happened there per institution. I don't think that's a very meaningful exercise. We really need to look at quality agreements in the near future to see whether things are coming up that may mean that we may have to look again at the way things turned out at the time in a number of institutions. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u216	I see one last interruption by Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u217	Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, Mr Van Meenen still had very high expectations of institutional newspapers, independent institutional newspapers, and the enormous ambitions that the minister has for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u218	Yeah, excuse me. In an interview with the Higher Education Press Office, I said a few things about this. Independent news provision at organisational level at institutions is of course very important. The same applies to critical abilities. This was also the case recently at the more national day of participation. It is rather complicated for people who have been elected to participate occasionally to make contact with their supporters and to engage in dialogue with them. The independent news provision at universities is very important for this. So, yes, I think it's very important that the free press is here. This is a matter for the autonomy of the institution. I can't impose a sanction if there isn't one. But I can conjure up settings. In this way, my point was also made: see for yourself the importance of this. If you want participation to work well and that there is a critical capacity at a college and also in the academic community of a university, you must want an independent press. The Council of Journalism also has very nice guidance for institutions on how to organise this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u219	Thank you. Then Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u220	I will have to express Mr Van Meenen's disappointment that my assessment of the Minister's reply was better than his. If the minister is going to call: last week, the Saxion University of Applied Sciences abolished his last independent medium. There's no such thing anymore. The Twitter account of communications is now being redirected. That's just the state of play. It is also a question of colleges, I would like to say explicitly. Is the Minister prepared to appeal to individual institutions and, if she does, would she like to give them my special greetings, because I am still on the payroll?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u221	I am very prepared to ask them how that decision was reached, why it is. I assume that many of the institutions are listening to this debate tonight. I will not fail to continue calling on them to ensure that they continue to facilitate internal critical noise, including through the media. In the long run, you'll cut yourself if you don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u222	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u223	With some analytical detective work, I might be able to see my questions answered, but I would also like the Minister to be able to answer the question of what she learns from the Court's report on her own role throughout the process. How would she describe it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u224	I think I have made that clear, but I would like to do it again. What you need to be perfectly clear about as a minister is what you agree on. How can you make sure that the deal is clear at the front and what do you agree on about reporting on it? If I look now at what we have laid down in the quality agreements in the sector agreements, no one can doubt what we have agreed on. We also agreed on how to monitor this. We have given some thought, both internally and in the discussions, to who we would play a role in this. In the end, we said: the NVAO can do very well. It is independent and has real experience in monitoring the quality of the institutions. A clear protocol has also been agreed on how this will be done. We have recorded this very precisely and in detail, because I do not want to get in the position that the Chamber is under the assumption that we have a clear agreement that turns out not to be there. I have noticed that if you make such an appointment, it is best to push and pull, but there must be absolute clarity about: what is expected of you, what should you report on and what am I counting on you for? If you read the appointments correctly, there can be no misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u225	Thank you. Mrs. Tielen, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u226	That sounds a bit like the role of an referee, in advance and afterwards, and with some border judges in the form of an NVAO to watch and give an independent judgment. But does that also mean that if the Minister is not satisfied on the basis of the information provided to him about the implementation of the agreements, she can put the whistle in her mouth and some institutions can whistle back? Is she willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u227	That too is very clear in the agreements. Then the institution will be given a period within which it can improve its life. If it doesn't happen then we'll just look at the finances. I do not expect anyone to allow this to happen, but there can be no doubt as to how that process has been set up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u228	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term. I think there is a need for a second deadline. Is there a need for a short suspension or can we proceed immediately? A brief suspension? Then I'll suspend the sitting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u229	I would ask Members to take their seats again. We'll start with the second term. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few comments and then a motion on our part. Firstly, I would like to invite Mrs Tielen to say in her second term what she thinks of the conclusions of the Court of Auditors' report. In my opinion, that did not happen in the first period. The Minister said that the debate on pre-investment should now continue with the institutions. I have two questions about that. Firstly, the institutions have all been given their own judgement by the Court of Auditors. Does the Minister wish to call on the institutions to at least share this with their own participation in so far as they have not done so? My second question is somewhat along the lines of what Mr Van Meenen mentioned earlier. What if participation in an institution finds that the pre-investments are not well spent, but the board believes they are? Apart from the disclosure obligation; just a difference of opinion about definition, as you often do. What can such participation do? In such a case, is the Minister prepared to use any of her perseverance? Then, chairman, a motion. I have been considering putting forward a motion aimed at unlucky generation compensation, but I actually submitted it at the tuition discussion once. He didn't get a majority at the time, and I don't feel like doing that every two months. But I would like to see what Mr Van der Molen might come up with. This motion is about participation. It may not be necessary after the commitment to Mr Van Meenen, but I shall submit it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Court of Auditors notes in its report that, although progress has been made, there is still no proper interpretation of the right of assent on the main lines of the budget of participation in terms of investment in the quality of education;]] [[Whereas, according to the General Court, a quarter of the institutions have not exercised any right of assent to the 2017 budget;]] [[considers that participation in the budget is important, especially in the context of the forthcoming sectoral agreements;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with VSNU, Association of Colleges and Student Organisations on how to strengthen and guarantee the possibilities of participation to exercise their right of assent, for example by agreeing on facilities and timely and transparent provision of information, in particular where additional resources for quality improvement are concerned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-629]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u231	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the answers and the reactions. The pre-investment arrangements were not a matter for the Hague but for the institutions. The institutions have made these commitments. In the view of my group, it is also up to the institutions to start the discussion. That is why, in an interruption, I asked for the individual reports of the Court of Auditors to be made available to the participation of each institution, so that the discussion could take place there as well. My answer instead of the Minister to Mr Futselaar's question as to what should happen if there was a difference of opinion: yes, there is a right of assent on the main lines of the budget; that could be involved. That's what I'm giving the co-decision councils. Mr. Chairman. I also have a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u232	First of all, there is an interruption by Mr Futselaar, which was also mentioned in the speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u233	I understand that, but the problem is this. If you have a discussion on a number of things from the past in the sense that you say that those pre-investments were not real pre-investments, then the budget is about the future, and if you then commit to not agreeing to the budget, then in practice that will be rather difficult for participation. So I don't think you can tie those things one-two.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u234	As we all know here, participation, democracy, is not for scared people. It's not easy, either. We don't have it easy either. "Tough generation." Well, I was born in 1956 myself. That's a lost generation, because I'm not like a baby boomer. Look, there's a baby boomer. You can see it that way; Mr. Bertema looks much better than I do. I'm from a lost generation, so I'm just saying to the students here: unlucky generation, don't let it get to you and at least don't let it bother you. So a strong participation, that's what I think we're both talking about. I believe that we have an obligation to ensure that participation is fully informed. Responsibility for pre-investment has never been the responsibility of the government but of the institutions. What we should not do here, I say to others, is to draw that responsibility to us now. That would be the worst thing we can do. That's a reward for bad behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u235	Thank you. Finally, Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u236	Even with Mr Van Meenen's somewhat limited interpretation of the responsibility of the Empire, of the Ministry, of us, can you at least say: let the Minister be the referee on the field and once in a while whistling when she sees something going very badly? Mr Van Meenen knows, as I do, that participation in practice is often weak. Students can easily be pressured. The staff can easily be put under pressure. Fortunately, there are fantastic examples of how things are going well, but things are sometimes less. Well, it'll be useful if someone's watching.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u237	That's right. I count it my duty, it is not only the duty of the Minister but also of us to look into it. We are doing everything we can to ensure that participation is not weak. And let us be clear: participation has one very strong means, and that is that participation can say no to the main lines of the budget. As far as I am concerned, this should be done more often where this is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u238	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u239	That force, that weapon has to be used if it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u240	Your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u241	Mr. Chairman. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the General Court finds that there is uncertainty as to what is meant by "main lines of the budget";]] [[Whereas this hampers the proper exercise of the right of assent on the main lines of the budget through participation;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with student associations and administrative bodies, to come forward with proposals to improve this definition and to embed it in the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Tielen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-630]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today's students must learn something from tomorrow's investment, just as tomorrow's students should be able to benefit from today's investment. That is our starting point. It has been agreed on a voluntary basis, but I would like to repeat it once again, not without obligation. We can see that there is at least a lack of clarity on this point. We agree on how these agreements have been complied with. We believe that this impact should be made clear. We owe that to today's students and tomorrow's students. That is why we choose an investment committee. The Minister says that the NVAO can do just fine, we do not need an investment committee for that. We believe that the NVAO is there to promote quality culture in higher education, not to assess whether expenditure on pre-investment and participation is adequately secured. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the General Court (ARK) is critical of the extent to which the agreed pre-investment in higher education has been achieved;]] [[believes that students should be sure of the promised investments in the quality of higher education;]] [[Whereas there should be no doubt about the use of investment funds for higher education and about the position of participation;]] [[calls on the Government to set up an independent "Supervisory Committee on Higher Education Investments" to monitor and report publicly on investments and participation in this field;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber of its completion before 1 October next,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul and Mr Özdil. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-631]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u243	Mr. Chairman. We debated today a report by the General Court on pre-investment. The General Court concludes that some of these preinvestments have been made. There was broad consensus on this, which was endorsed by everyone, including the Minister. The same report says that some of these pre-investments have not been made. Then suddenly it was a definition issue. Mr. Chairman. The last thing we need in this Chamber is fact-free politics. It's choosing or sharing. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the General Court reported on pre-investment in higher education;]] [[Notes that according to the findings of the General Court, institutions have "pre-invested" at least EUR 280 million, and in any case EUR 250 million;]] [[calls on the Government to endorse these findings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özdil, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Beertema and Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-632]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u244	What will change in the world if this motion is adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u245	In any case, the following changes: that we do not speak with two tongues here. I say 'we' on purpose, because that applies not only to Members of Parliament but also to the Minister and the Government. If the report says that part of the investments have been made, then we're okay with it, but from the part that hasn't been made, we suddenly say it's a definition issue. You can't say it's okay if definitions come out right, and it's not okay if it doesn't come out right. I think you'll agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u246	I think there is a very different view between a part of the Chamber and another part of the Chamber. This is about whether it is a good idea to have this new social loan system in relation to the old antisocial loan system. GroenLinks was there too. My question to Mr Özdil is whether he agrees with me that the agreements made at the time on pre-investment were vague, not clear. He wasn't there, but can we agree on those views? Or should I file a motion that we all think was vague agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u247	Mr President, that brings me to my next motion. It is important that we learn from the report of the General Court. If these agreements were vague at the time, then we must ensure that those pre-investments are made, that we do not leave those people in the cold. We cannot debate the definition of a pre-investment here. We can't say "that part of the report comes out, so we embrace it," and the part that doesn't come out says "that's not a definition." That's the motion I tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u248	There is another interruption by Mr Futselaar. I'm assuming it's about the motion, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u249	Yeah, it's about the motion, too, 'cause I'm a co-subscriber. Mr Van Meenen asked what would change if this motion were adopted. Legally nothing changes, but the Minister has more or less said: there are several truths; you have the truth of the Court of Auditors, which exists, and the truth of the institutions, which also exists. I would like this Chamber to say: this is the truth. That is what happens when this motion is adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u250	Your second motion, Mr. Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u251	I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u252	You filed the motion together, so it would also be separate if you did not agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u253	That would be surprising news.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u254	You had another motion, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u255	Yes. It is important that we at least have clarity about what we do and do not embrace in the report, and that we do not pick and choose, as it is called in good Dutch. But it is also important that we then learn lessons, perhaps from mistakes we made at the time, but at least from the findings of such an important report from the General Court. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that it was agreed that higher education institutions would invest EUR 600 million extra in education between 2015 and 2017;]] [[noting that the General Court concludes that the full amount of additional investment has not been made;]] [[calls on the government to consult with the Association of Colleges, the VSNU and the student associations to ensure that all agreed funds are pre-invested,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özdil and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-633]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u256	The problem is that the deal was made at national level. At that time, the VSNU and the Association of Colleges promised that you would pay us for 600 million investments nationwide. That cannot be traced back to an appointment with the cabinet for an individual institution. So what does this mean? What is going to happen next to this motion on an individual institution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u257	This motion calls on the Association of Colleges and the VSNU, indeed individual institutions, but then organised, to work with the students to ensure that that part of the pre-investment that has not been made is at least done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u258	And which institutions should do that? That could basically be one who says: I'll take the whole shit on me and then we'll be there, because we'd be covering 600 million. Let me say this as a warning: again, this is a very vague appointment that you are trying to get through the Chamber, which means that we are going to have a huge amount of problems that we have now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u259	I do not agree with that, because the institutions have organised themselves in the Association of Colleges and the VSNU. That's not for nothing. Mr Van Meenen is quite right that it differs from one institution to another to what extent they have achieved this pre-investment. I just think it is important that we address the organisation of these institutions when agreements are not respected. Then it is up to them at organisational level to ensure that these institutions still keep the agreements. Why else are they organized? Why else do we have dialogue and relations with the VSNU and the Association of Colleges? Surely Mr Van Meenen cannot claim that we should end all this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u260	We're not gonna argue... Well, it's not exactly entrapment. Mr. Van Meenen, you ask a lot of questions on all motions. I'll give you a chance to give you one short response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u261	In my opinion, the core of this problem is that you cannot make such an agreement on investing 600 million at all with these institutions, with the VSNU and with the Association of Colleges. If you really wanted to do that, you should have done it with the institutions. These umbrella organisations have no position in relation to the institutions. There is no way they can force that to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u262	I think this is a repeat of your previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u263	This point has not yet been raised at all. So you can't do what you're asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u264	I really don't agree with that. In any case, we can appeal to the institutions at organisational level on non-compliance. It's the least we can do as a room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u265	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Beertema of the PVV for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u266	Mr. Chairman. Everyone should quit smoking. I am also working on this, but this kind of debate really does not contribute to that. I can assure you of that. And I know from at least one colleague that he has a problem with it too. Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her story, which I found extremely unsatisfactory. I have rarely had such an unsatisfactory debate. My conclusion is that the cohorts 2015-2017, which I still call "the unlucky generation," are seriously inadequate. There's too much uncertainty left. Are they or are they not compensated by agreement through investment in a direct improvement in the quality of education? Mr. Chairman. I would like to repeat this debate, but on the basis of a further examination by the General Court, based on a clear definition supported by all parties. That should be the definition of the General Court. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there was a clear agreement to grant students of the cohorts 2015-2017 additional investments in improving the quality of higher education in order to compensate slightly the disadvantages of the introduction of the loan system;]] [[noting that there is a discrepancy between the definition of "pre-investment" used by the General Court and that used by higher education institutions;]] [[Whereas this discrepancy has seriously made it difficult to control the function of the Chamber;]] [[calls on the Government to embrace the definition used by the General Court in a more detailed examination of all educational establishments in order to determine to what extent the pre-investments promised to students have actually been carried out,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-634]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u267	Only when that has been achieved will we, as a Chamber, be in a position to exercise orderly control. That's what we all do here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u268	I usually find it quite pleasant to listen to Mr. Beertema, because in general he makes his speech very clear and clear. But now I'm frowning my eyebrows. I wonder if Mr Beertema has a teletime machine, in which he can have the definition of the General Court landed retroactively in 2014 or so. What does Mr. Beertema mean by embracing the definition of the General Court, which was put back in place afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u269	What makes me feel like that? I have, like you, had a debate here that did not make any sense at all. Why not? Because we were really sent to the Chamber with the wrong information. Again, it can be very good. The General Court has now completed this investigation. It may well be that, on the basis of that clear, unambiguous definition, he repeats that research and that we will then debate it again. In any case, we will know which institutions did and which institutions did not keep their promises. If you do not embrace that, you will, as far as I am concerned, be very much on the basis of the VSNU, which tells a very own story, which the General Court apparently was not aware of. I can't stop thinking it's an embarrassing display. I also think that we have a duty to the fine College of General Court, at least, but above all to the students to whom we have promised matters. They're the most important thing in this. They also have a right to know which institution did and which institution did not deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u270	In those last few sentences I recognize again what Mr. Beertema wants to say. In fact, you say that we are going to give the same task to the General Court for the second time, but we ask them to go a step further. Is that it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u271	And based on a clear definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u272	You have another question, Mrs. Tielen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u273	Does Mr. Beertema expect other things to come out of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u274	I think that we will get some clarity about the whole field, that it will not remain generic, but we can see from each institution who did and who did not deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u275	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van der Molen of the CDA for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u276	Mr. Chairman. The Minister said in the debate: I started with a reality that is just like that. I do think it was a difficult debate in which a lot has been brought forward, and that the Minister has actually got through it quite well, knowing that this is what it is. I started my contribution with: you can get cranky as a student and you can get cranky as a Chamber, especially if you voted for the loan system. But I can also lively imagine a new minister getting cranky when this is on her table. I also agree with the Minister when she says that we should not use the Court's report to put all the institutions on the same footing. Because there will be institutions that have just invested well in good consultation. There are also institutions where there has been no such consultation and where there is insufficient investment. So I had a great deal to gain from the Minister's remark that compensation should still be made if these investments were not made. I quote the Minister in this debate. The question is, how do you do that? And that is a tricky one, because it is difficult to come up with a generic measure here; that is what I am saying to Mr Van Meenen. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in the Court's view, colleges and universities have invested 300 million less than promised;]] [[Considering that some 150,000 wo-students and 270,000 HBO-students started their training in 2015-2017;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up, within the framework of the new quality agreements, a plan to compensate and inform the Chamber as soon as possible for the group of students who have suffered from the institutions where there has been insufficient pre-investment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-635]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u277	I have only one question about this motion: is there coverage and, if not, is it not necessary? Who will be billed for this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u278	I refer to the agreement made that these pre-investments would be made by the institutions themselves. That's the deal. In later years, it is actually beginning to become noticeable from now on, the resources from the loan system flow into education. So if it is found in good consultation that there has been no pre-investment, then these investments will still have to take place there. So we don't need coverage from the state funds. That's how the deal was made, and I'd like to keep it, although the CDA didn't make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u279	But that agreement was made by the institutions, not by the government. Is it not true that with this motion the government still assumes the responsibility that originally rested with the institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u280	I've...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u281	Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u282	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u283	I'm trying to be a little orderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u284	That is also your job, and I must not get in your way. I'm looking at that differently. I find it rather easy to say that it was actually an agreement that institutions had made with students, as if there had been no debate here and as if parties here had not sold the loan system on the basis of the political agreement that institutions would invest in. That does not mean that I put it on the Minister's sign that she should do it specifically, with name and name and with measures. That's not what I'm asking or trying to do with the motion. But I do think we should also realise that politics has sent a signal to students. We have at least something of a role to see if we can do justice to those who feel duped.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u285	Finally, a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u286	I would just like to have a very clear answer as to what responsibility the government is going to take to itself, because this is an important motion. I do not agree at all with Mr Van der Molen that it was sold at the time. He's still in his old rhetoric, I'll say. No, it's not. The institutions have said that funds are coming to us under the loan system; we believe it is our obligation to invest already and we are going to do so. Then you can have a whole discussion about whether or not that has happened, but that is different from one institution to another. My own view is that this debate should now take place in the institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u287	Could you be a little shorter...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u288	In the end, my question is... That debate must take place in the institutions. The participation councils have all the means to enforce this within the framework of the new budget and so on. There's just not a euro from the government going there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u289	Mr. Van Meenen, I'm going to interrupt you anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u290	So my question is: where does the Minister's responsibility begin and end when this motion is adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u291	The motion states that the government must come up with a plan. I imagine you'll first join where you need to be. That's at the institution. Nor have I said anything other than that to the Minister. Mr Van Meenen has also repeatedly said that the discussion should take place there. I agree with him on this point, even when it comes to the position of participation. Only I'm gonna make another decision. This minister and the minister's predecessor have had a role in that process. And politics has also said to students: even if you start borrowing and you don't have an investment out of those resources in your daily practice at your college or university, you're gonna feel something about it. I might refer to one of the comparisons made with an arbitrator. It may not determine the outcome of the game, but at the beginning it knows what the rules are. It can play a very useful role in there. So I will also ask the Minister how, if the motion is adopted, she intends to fill it out. That is the role I see in making this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u292	Thank you. Mrs. Tielen of the VVD for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u293	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I always like to ignore entrapments, but I will of course go into Mr Futselaar's friendly question. He asked what I actually think of the Court's report. We have debated this extensively over the last two or three hours. I think there are a lot of learning points in that, especially about quantitative data. I would like to include quality in this and therefore I would also take the learning points with me to the quality agreements. I think I was very clear about that in my speech. 'Cause, pooh, this is kind of a complicated debate, I think. It has become clear again what the vagueness of agreements can lead to. I am therefore pleased that the Minister states that she sees clear conditions and clear definitions as the basis for agreements. That can be expected from the quality agreements in the future, so that we know what we are looking at and so that the Minister can take control of them when things go wrong. I am pleased to have signed Mr Van Meenen's motion because, as far as I am concerned, accountability and annual reports should indeed play a major role around the budgetary cycle. In this way, participation councils can actually look forward and look back at them with a sufficiently firm voice. I welcome the Minister's confirmation that, if it really turns out to go wrong in the future, she can just whistle the matter back if necessary, because there are clear agreements and clear conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u294	Thank you. Mr Futselaar, just in time!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u295	I asked the question "what do you think of this report" not just to be friendly. That is partly because the VVD in this Chamber is a par excellence party that often opposes extensive reporting, bureaucracy and so on. What this debate is actually suggesting is that we should have recorded things better at the time. I would like to ask Mrs Tielen whether she would have looked back and said that a more clear definition of these pre-investments should have been laid down at the time, so that there could have been better accountability. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u296	In my speech, I did refer to boxes full of declarations and ledger codes, which I am absolutely opposed to. I think everyone in the whole education sector is too. But making agreements in advance on what could and could not be done seems to me a firm commitment. I think the Minister has said that she does the same with regard to quality agreements. That doesn't mean that every paper clip has to be considered whether it's a contribution and preinvestment in quality, but it's about how you compile a budget, how you finance your projects and how you then answer. But what level of detail is that? I think Mr. Futselaar and I disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u297	Mr Futselaar, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u298	I do not know, because it is still completely unclear to me what Mrs Tielen thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u299	It's okay. That's Mr. Fumbler's right. That's nice, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u300	Thank you for that. The Minister indicated that she could immediately give her appreciation of the motions tabled. I would ask the Members of Parliament to ask the Minister only in the event of a lack of clarity and not to repeat the discussion. That would be very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u301	Mr President, I will try to give that appreciation briefly and clearly, but before I do, I would like to address the question that Mr Futselaar asked, because it is crucial. He asked: what happens if the CoB keeps saying "yes, we did" and the co-determination continues to say "no." That's the crux. Mr Van Meenen was right to make the point in the case of interruption that if democracy is not quite going well by institution, then we have to take everything back and then we have to think 'all right, then we're going to take care of it all again'. That's not the right reflex. We need to make sure that the mechanism works properly there. When it comes to how you invest in quality per institution, I still think that we should be able to have that debate per institution. So what happens then? Yes, then participation does not agree with the main lines of the budget or gives a negative opinion. Then you have a dispute. You can take this to the Disputes College and that can also, if there is a dispute about it, be discussed in the further implementation of the study advance funds. Then you have a difference of opinion about that, too. That is what we are going to see in the NVAO's review, which is also reported. Then we know exactly what there is a difference of opinion and how to translate it into the future. That's the process through which we get clarity about what's going on per institution. That is actually what it is intended to do. I believe that we should continue to work together to ensure that this democracy continues to work better per institution. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion Futselaar in part No. 629. Mr Futselaar asks me to consult with the VSNU, the Association of Colleges and the student organisations on how to strengthen the exercise of participation. We have just gone through this process, and we have made a number of agreements on this in the sectoral agreements. I'm gonna run it, we're gonna monitor it, and we're gonna evaluate it. We'll be back in the Chamber in two years. Then the next step is to be taken. I advise against this motion, because we have just done what you ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u302	Mr Futselaar wishes to ask a question about his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u303	I understand. There are a number of very hard things in the sector agreements on hours and also on some undefined concepts, and I have been a little anxious about that since tonight. What is more important in this motion is matters such as: how long is it decent to send pieces to members of parliament, how do you present such a budget and what data do you give and not? In this respect, this is a little along the lines of the commitment you made to Mr Van Meenen, namely that you want to look at what is needed in the law. It may be that "looking at what is needed in the law" ends with "nothing." Then I'd like to have something left, and that's this motion. Can't the Minister imagine that interpretation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u304	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u305	I have a very rich fantasy; so I can imagine anything, but I stick to my answer given earlier. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the Van Meenen/Tielen motion on part No. 630 on the definitions in the law. Mr Van Meenen has made his contribution very clear on what this is about. I am asked to enter into consultations to see whether proposals should be made to improve the law. I would not like to conclude in advance that it must in any case lead to changes to the law, but I would like to explore that and engage in that discussion. So I'd like to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. If that is the case, then I will come back to you. This is always the case when the law needs to be amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u306	See if Mr Van Meenen recognizes himself in this interpretation. Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u307	Let's keep the latter in mind. If we get rid of that tonight, we'll have a problem. Would it still be helpful to say in the operative part "to anchor in the law if necessary"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u308	Then you record it exactly as I interpret it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u309	I think that's better for historiography.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u310	That seems to me very nice and then the verdict on that motion to the Chamber is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u311	Anything else I need to do for that, I'll just ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u312	You're gonna have to file an amended motion. In any case, before the debate, it is clear what the Minister means and that you agree with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u313	Then the motion to part No. 631 members Van den Hul and Özdil on the independent advisory committee. I explained in the debate that I see the role for the NVAO there. It is like no other equipped to fulfil that role. If we put an independent guidance committee next to that, we have two monitoring bodies next to each other. I don't recommend that motion. You won't be surprised that I have the motion in part no. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I think that was the crux of the whole debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u314	Mr Özdil has another question. It has been exchanged enough in the debate, so I do not think you can get out of it, but you may have an explanatory question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u315	I kindly ask the Minister to explain it a little more. My motion calls on the government to at least endorse and convey what the General Court concludes when it comes to what has been pre-invested and what has not been pre-invested, so that there is no noise about it, why dissuade it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u316	My view is that the Minister explained this in the debate, but perhaps the Minister himself would like to comment on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u317	I feel like we've been talking about this for a long time. We are talking about pre-investments that have not been agreed on in front of them on exactly what is covered. We have a report from the Court of Auditors, which has used its own definition for this purpose and which is based on that definition. Those are things that stand next to each other. Based on how that history went, I can't endorse your motion, so I advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u318	If you'll excuse me, I'll turn on your microphone, Mr. Özdil. You have one more comment on your motion on item No. 632?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u319	I am prepared to withdraw my motion if the Minister here agrees that she does not agree with both the Court's findings on the pre-investments made, because there would be a definition problem, and on the pre-investments that have not been made. If she agrees here that she does not measure with double standards and calls into question all the conclusions of the General Court, I shall withdraw my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u320	We've established something very clearly with each other today. Pre-investments were made at the time. Mr Van der Molen rightly said: when it came to my desk, it made me a little cranky too. You are confronted with made agreements, when it has never been made clear what those agreements consist of. Now there is a report from the Court of Auditors, which I consider to be very high, in which the Court of Auditors has given its own interpretation of that definition. We are trying, with retroactive effect, to judge the behaviour of institutions on the basis of a definition that was not given to them in the front of the action. I don't think that's a good thing to do either. I'm sticking to my judgment. I also maintain my conclusion that if my predecessor had been more clear about this, we would not have to have this debate. For the same reason, I would also advise against the Özdil/Van den Hul motion on item No. 633. In reply to Mr Özdil's question, I have just said that this is not the consultation we need with the domes, but the discussion that must take place at the institution. Then the motion to part No. 634 by Mr Bertema. I come to the same point: it is not very sensible to repeat the Court's exercise, because this does not change the problem. Agreements which did not form the basis of a definition remain complex. So this motion has also been dissuaded. Finally, the motion in part No. 635, by Mr Van der Molen and Mrs Van den Hul, on compensation. That motion builds on the Court's conclusion that there would be less investment. The whole debate today was about not being able to draw that conclusion so easily. In reply to Mr Futselaar, I started to clarify this: it must be defined in the decentralised consultation of each institution. That's the mechanism that has to work. If there is a conflict at an institution, it also comes up through the NVAO at some point. Then we have to look at what needs to be done, but I am not going to anticipate that. I also find it difficult to draw up a plan of facts that have not been established. So the motion has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u321	One question from Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u322	The Minister brings it back to the definition issue. That is a very interesting political issue and we have spent a lot of time on it. I liked that, too, but outside this house, you don't buy much for that. I'm just gonna take it back to the promise made to the students. I understand the Minister's considering that we haven't solved this tomorrow. It won't be complicated and I'll follow her in it even if she says that if you want to do this, the conversation must first be conducted at the decentralised level in the institution. I understand, therefore, that the motion for a resolution will be difficult. I also found it difficult to write the motion. But the point is, isn't there something we can do with each other to straighten out where it went wrong? I'd like to hear the Minister's response to that. The idea behind the motion is not so much that what the Court of Auditors wrote down, but that what the Minister himself said: where there is no investment, compensation should be provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u323	You say, where we find that it did not go well. But there is a difference of opinion on this. That's why I don't recommend the motion. We have not yet been able to establish that at all. That has yet to be done. I think it is a little premature to say now: in the event that that finding is to be made, the Minister must draw up a plan. First of all, let's focus on where the differences of insight are that one doesn't get out of. In the coming year, this process can really be brought out by institution. Of course we're gonna have the conversation. But this is too premature now. That is exactly what the whole debate was about. At the moment, it is simply too early to draw these conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u324	A brief question from Mr Van der Molen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u325	There are still data on which institutions it is sufficient and where it has not been sufficiently implemented. This motion doesn't rule that out. We can take some time for that. This motion sees agreements ahead of time on the institutions where this has not been done enough, so we are going to see where compensation should take place. The fact that these data are in one month, two months or three months' time does not make any difference to the substance of this motion. Once again, I would like the Minister's response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u326	I like it and I think it's my privilege to appreciate motions the way I want them to be. My way of working is that I want to take a good look at whether there is a problem, and what it looks like, before we say what the steps to be taken would be. It's in that order. I'd like to stick to that. So the motion is still dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u327	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-30-tweedekamer-7.u328	The votes on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday. I would like to thank the minister, the MPs, the people who have been sitting in the public gallery all night and the viewers at home.
