ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the Amendment of the Pension Act, the Obligatory Occupational Pension Scheme Act and the Financial Supervision Act related to the implementation of Directive 73/2341/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision. I would like to welcome the spokesmen and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Kent of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The previous law, a beautiful law, was about paternity leave and was called Cradle. This law has a much less attractive title, but that aside. Mr. Chairman. Recently I stood side by side with over 3,000 employees and pensioners in Amsterdam. At the heart of their demand is lowering the AOW age and indexing for each generation. That is right, because for many years pensioners have not been indexed or even reduced on their pensions. At the same time, the pension pots are full and implementation costs increase. More than €8 billion of implementation costs were paid in 2017. In addition to the rising incentive payments, which I will come back to later, the totally irresponsible remunerations of directors contributed to these rising costs. The board members of the two largest pension funds, the ABP and the Pension Fund Zorg en Welzijn, received well over two tonnes of remuneration in 2017. But the pension executives are making the crown. APG, Mr Van Olphen, to be precise, deserves to be given almost six tonnes, and Bos from PGGM, the executive of the Pension Fund for Health and Welfare, receives more than four tonnes. These people fill their pockets with money that belongs to pensioners and workers. This is not proportionate to the social function these people hold. Drivers are employed to serve the interests of participants and pensioners. They themselves do not run any financial risk, but work with the money of others, just as with health insurers, who are covered by the Standards Act, better known as the beaming standard. The financial crisis has also taught us that high salaries and quality have nothing whatsoever to do with each other. I only have to refer to the ruins that the banks have made and the salaries that are paid there. Pension funds without these exorbitant rewards do not perform any worse than, for example, the aforementioned PGGM and APB, where giga salaries are paid. Today we are talking about another dictatorship from Brussels. It talks about a remuneration policy that must be in line with the long-term interests of the members and beneficiaries of a pension rule, i.e. a controlled remuneration policy. But what's controlled? Let's have a standard for that. I just mentioned all the Law standards top incomes, better known as the beaming norm. As far as the SP Group is concerned, this standard should apply as soon as possible to all pension administrators and pension funds. We don't think that's the only thing. Nearly 100,000 people signed the Pension Manifesto of Omroep MAX. There was also the first requirement: introduce the Standards Act on top incomes so that those pension fund managers cannot fill their pockets with money that belongs to pensioners and employees. Does the Minister agree with the SP Group? Is the Minister willing to change the law? I have already made a first move towards this by tabling an amendment to introduce the Top Income Standards Act for this sector and thereby set the limit at €187,000 a year, which is already a Giga salary, for those working in the pension sector. Because if they do not know borders, then politics must set boundaries. The same applies to the huge investor bonuses that are being distributed. Is the Minister prepared to enter into discussions with pension funds with a view to putting a stop to this? Mr. Chairman. Another important point is the overview that people receive annually, on which at least is stated, on which it should be clear which pension has been built up and which is later entitled to. The directive we are discussing today requires that additional information be included in the summary. It is stated that the government does not have the room to choose which information should be included in that overview and which information is communicated through which channel. That is why I called it a dictation from Brussels. However, layered communication is possible via the digital environment. How am I supposed to see that? I'd like to ask the Minister. With all that extra information that has to be included in the overview, is it not much too unclear for the participant? Will the contestant soon get a stuffed A4' with no rope to tie to? I ask the Minister; you may also know the answer, Mr President, but in this case it is better to ask the Minister. The participant mainly wants to know how much pension he has accumulated and how much he gets when he retires. Will this information be made clearer than the other mandatory information? I have many questions about this, partly because no model of a new overview can be provided. The CDA asked for that, too. Why can't I? It's pretty hard for us as a Chamber to agree to anything if we don't have a picture of what it's going to be eventually. Can the Minister at least undertake to send a model of the new overview to the Chamber prior to the general consultation scheduled for early December, so that the Chamber can discuss it at a later date? Mr. Chairman. Finally. Transferring pension assets abroad is a risk and was not properly regulated. It is good that at the very last minute the Minister has added the possibility to the law that participants can block it. The amendment tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Bruins, which we saw, also represents an important step towards securing the value of the pension amount which may be transferred to a foreign pension fund. The SP will wholeheartedly support this amendment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Whether you live in Biddinghuizen or Budapest, it is important for everyone that your pension is safe. You don't have some security, but it needs to be controlled very well. It is, of course, primarily about Dutch pensions in this Parliament. This is particularly relevant in the implementation of this directive because we have a funded pension system in the Netherlands, in which a lot of money has already been set aside for supplementary pensions for pension funds and insurers. The positive effect of the fact that there is relatively much supplementary pension in the Netherlands is reflected. A lot of people have a pension like that. Older people's poverty in the Netherlands is among the lowest in Europe, partly because more and more people receive supplementary pensions alongside the AOW. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, this is not the case everywhere in the European Union. There is now a directive that is trying to regulate it more widely in Europe. I think that's wise. We have already seen the Pan-European Personal Pension Product a few weeks ago, with the brilliant abbreviation PEPP with double P; a voluntary scheme in the third pillar that can be an addition for participants across the European Union. Today we are dealing with something with a less prosaic name than the Cradle, I repeat, Mr Van Kent: the IORP II directive. It contains important improvements in the regulation of pensions, a bit for the Netherlands, a lot for other countries, because fortunately we already have a lot of good guarantees in the law. The fact that we are implementing an IORP II directive today shows that it is not the first time we have talked about it. There was already an IORP I directive. In 2016, the Chamber agreed to that number II, the "enhanced version" I call it again, in which issues have been updated and important additional safeguards have been included, for example for transfer of value abroad. You also saw that, because both the Dutch supervisor, De Nederlandsche Bank, and the Pension Federation were positive because this directive provides additional protection and additional safeguards for transfer of value abroad. Because, of course, it is fine if you have a lot of employees all over Europe and decide to transfer your pensions to another country. But of course it's not fine if you do that because you hope that you can secretly benefit from more flexible rules that suddenly make you look a lot healthier. So my group is very positive when you do it for the good reasons, but it also values good guarantees, so that there is not a bit of shopping between rules. The new directive contributes to this. One condition that is now stated is that the works council must agree if a company wants to move a scheme abroad. The recent letter of amendment, which we received today, made it even more clear that participants should be consulted. Two thirds of participants who make themselves heard, both actively and retired, must also agree to a possible transfer. I'd be fine with that. Finally, the national supervisory authority must also give its consent. That regulator has already indicated that this directive allows them to do so better than the previous version of the directive. This will be assessed against a variety of criteria: are the long-term interests of the remaining participants sufficiently protected if some of them are transferred? Have the rights of participants who change over remained the same? Are the available resources sufficient to cover the obligations? These are all important safeguards to ensure that the participant is protected in the event of such a transfer of value. It really is an improvement on the first IORP directive. That is why we are positive about this. The Minister has today added an extra lock to the door by including in a letter of amendment the following: If he sees in the next two years that there is a development that pension funds are not expecting it, but he would not want it to happen for wrong motives to try to go abroad, then we can further strengthen the powers and review frameworks of De Nederlandsche Bank by general measure of governance. I think that's a valuable addition. I hope we do not need this, and I do not think there are any great indications that we need this, but nevertheless: this is a lot of money and great interests of participants, so I think it is wise that this possibility should be added. Mr. Chairman. However, I would like to point out that this directive does not create a single European supervisory framework. That has been regulated differently by countries and, as far as I am concerned, we have done so very carefully in the Netherlands. There is a whole debate going on about a new pension system. I'll leave that out here tonight with the clock in mind. Each country has its own system. That must remain the case, but it is precisely in terms of value transfer that it is good for people working in different countries that this directive should take a step forward. I have two specific questions. The first question concerns a point made by De Nederlandsche Bank and the AFM in a supervisory test. They say that this directive gives them more scope in the current implementation form not to make sanctions public. My group feels that this is undesirable. We attach particular importance to disclosure, and that is why we are tabling an amendment which guarantees the existing situation. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Mr President, then there is communication. Former participants must be informed every year, even if they are already gone, according to the new directive. That's once every five years right now. I am a very big fan of better information, but can that information not lead to large administrative burdens and perhaps high costs every year? Would the Minister like to reflect on that again? Finally. The low levels of coverage in recent years have not made it possible for many participants, if they went to a new sector or a new company, to take their old fund's pension to their new fund, because this is not allowed under cover. Now it's going one step at a time, slowly but surely, a little better with the funds. Are participants actually actively approached when it is possible to make value transfer happen again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u6	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. Then it is up to Mr Omtzigt of the CDA group. He signed up for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u7	You are now adding one minute at a time. That's great, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had that signed up, because even per minute or per second it is still about the most valuable or expensive directive we know. The Netherlands has a very valuable pension system. EUR 1,400 billion, more than twice as much as we make with each other in this country. If anything goes wrong with this pension system, all the other financial problems that are being studied here in the Chamber are not. Yes, there are problems with our pension funds, but I challenge others to look in the countries around us to see if it is better or worse there. Then you will get back to the Dutch pension system very quickly. Question 1 to this directive was therefore why we are regulating this European issue. There are a number of things to think about. Why do you want to guarantee the risk functions? That makes sense in itself. Why should that be European... Well, never mind. The same applies to the Uniform Pension Statement. I do not see many people who are going to put the Dutch Uniform Pension Statement next to the Finnish Uniform Pension Statement and then look at their pension. And since there is no right to transfer value from the Netherlands to Finland, or vice versa, but only the possibility for DNB to allow it, that doesn't make much difference either. If we find a risk somewhere in the sense of "where are the pensions not arranged?', This is precisely in those countries where there are no funded pension funds. And which pension funds are affected by this? This applies only to funded schemes. Mr. Chairman. If the British are soon out of the EU, the Netherlands will have two thirds, over 65%, of total pension assets in the EU. So we are no longer 5% of the EU's population, even after the departure of the British population, two thirds of the pension capital. So the other 95% owns less than half of what we own here. In fact, only a few countries still have pension funds of some size: Denmark, Finland and Ireland. The rest aren't. I come to the most controversial part of the proposal. I'll talk about that a little longer today. It is what gives pension funds the opportunity to determine that they want to move themselves abroad. What is this for? I wonder after ten years of European crisis. What purpose does this serve? That is a serious question to the Minister. I mean, if you're a little more liberal than I am, I'm in favour of a collective pension system and compulsory participation, then I can imagine people saying you should be able to choose between two pension funds. I sometimes see that with, for example, D66. But why you should be able to choose your pension fund to settle in another country, beats me. There are also some more fundamental points. I'll get back to you on that. First of all, I would like to say why we believe that this directive should be implemented in itself. As you know, we were very strong against this directive when it was dealt with in the Chamber. It was voted on within 24 hours of publication. We thought that was rather careless. The original Pension Act in the Netherlands has 4.5 pages A4. I have to say, something printed up, though. It has been debated for four years in the House of Representatives. This directive had 100 sides, including the explanatory memorandum, and we have done so within a day. I do not think that has been nice, because in those 24 hours we could not ask too many opinions. And oddly enough, the government said six months later, when I asked her if she could tell me article by article what effect the law has: that's what we're still figuring out. Not pretty. Anyway, Mr. Chairman, we're going to talk about the content. I start with the question: why is the freedom of choice there to move to another country? If a pension fund were to be a company in the eyes of the CDA Group, it would be a social security institution and we would call what is happening here "tax competition." We do not want to put pension funds under tax competition. But it is not tax competition that is the hardest thing to do here. That's supervisory competition. As a pension fund you can choose whether you want to be under the very strict Dutch Bank or under the more lax Cypriot supervisor. That counts, because countries are currently relaxing their rules to attract pension funds. Pension funds need to hold less money for every euro promised pension in another country. Let me give you an example. E.ON had proudly reported that she had managed to move the pension fund to Belgium. The same money was transferred in its entirety. So there wasn't anything held back or anything; that went neatly. But with the same money and with the same claims, the coverage rate increases by as much as 11%. Of course, that's too good to be true. This interest rate is high in Belgium: 3.5% for pensioners. Moreover, it would be achieved with 60% fixed interest rates and 40% business value. Fixed interest yields 1%. So they can assume that they're going to get 7% to 8% return on average on business value. That's a rather risky assumption. But that means that you can move abroad and say: tata, I have become financially healthy! Is that what we want? That is also rather strange, because on the one hand the government rejects Mr Van Rooijen's own-initiative proposal, with higher interest rates, but on the other hand it is no problem if a fund moves abroad. And pay attention: moving back is practically impossible, because if you move from Belgium to the Netherlands, you have to turn in 10% of your coverage because DNB is so strict. And yes, adding 10% of his pension assets, no employer actually succeeds. The next item is taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u8	I already see Mr Van Rooijen for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u9	Yeah, just for completeness. Mr Omtzigt rightly pointed out that the Minister had already given an opinion to the Chamber in the first period of examination of my draft own-initiative opinion. That may not be the case under state law, but I shall return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u10	Oh, we still have one, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u11	It is true that the initiative law is a subject of debate and criticism, but the reason why the minister and the cabinet allow moving is, of course, European regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u12	Yes, that's because of European regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u13	Thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u14	Mr. Chairman. So moving back is practically impossible, but there is something else going on, namely that as a national government you can tax. We do that in the Netherlands on about everything we can think of. And if we do not tax something, there is probably a political party in this country that would like to impose a special tax on it. It's a favorite hobby. Pension funds in themselves have to pay relatively little tax. They are excluded from the capital efficiency tax, which is, of course, a kind of capital tax. But if a pension fund moves to Belgium, Cyprus or Spain, that country will be entitled to levy taxes. There have been all kinds of revolutions. The American Revolution started with the Boston Tea Party: no taxation without representation. You want the ones you choose to be the ones that tax you. That's very fundamental. Imagine that. The Belgians can tax the funds. We can do the same in the Netherlands. But the party that proposes to tax 20% of pension funds in the Netherlands can also immediately book that they will have zero seats at the next elections. It's as simple as that. But if it is abroad, we may get angry with all of us, but then the Dutch electorate is no longer about who is allowed to tax Dutch pensions. It's about 1,400 billion in capital. I find that very, very vulnerable. Not that I think Belgium is going to levy a tax tomorrow, because if Belgium is going to levy a tax tomorrow, a pension fund will never move again from the day after tomorrow. But what if a new financial crisis breaks out in Cyprus and there are pension funds there? In the previous crisis, Cyprus has expropriated some of the savings. At that time, Cyprus will also opt out of pension funds. And imagine that as a country you have to expropriate your own savers; would you then spare foreign pension funds? My answer would be: that is not going to happen. So in times of crisis, it's extremely clumsy when your pension assets are abroad. There is no one to think of why you want to bring EUR 1,400 billion to another government. It beats me why you would want to, hence my objections to just bringing money abroad. If it is a multinational, or a company operating in three countries and having ten employees in all three countries, it does not have to be a multinational; it can also be a company at the border. If you have a company with employees on both sides of the border, it's fine that you want to consolidate that into one pension fund. I know these companies in Twente. That there may be such circumstances is so far. But if 95% of your company's employees are in this country, then the pension fund should be in this country. Does the government share that opinion? Mr. Chairman. What could I do? Of course, I could easily say: you know what, we are voting against these implementing laws. The reason why I tend not to do so is because we have direct effect under European law. Since the Van Gend and Loos judgments, this applies to the treaties, but in recent years it has been extended to the regulations and subsequently to the directives. So if a directive has not been implemented after two years, you have the problem that a citizen can go to the European Court in Luxembourg and derive rights directly from that directive, even if it is not in Dutch law. That is why the treatment of the directive is so important. In fact, we can only move the commas here. Fortunately, in the letter of amendment we saw this afternoon, the government has moved a few commas quite considerably. The most important point transfer is that a collective transfer of value now requires both two thirds of the participants and two thirds of the pensioners to give their consent. I ask the government whether this is possible if only 5% responds. Wouldn't it have made sense to give some sort of minimum number of people who would answer that letter? Then you can't do it in the afternoon with a two-week deadline, so only the insiders know. What also struck me in the letter of amendment is that it is unclear to me what is next the role of the accountable body and the supervisory board. Can they block it, too, or have they been sidelined a little bit? This would be particularly annoying for the accountability body, so I would like to hear from the Minister what the result of this letter of amendment is. The second thing that is very important in that letter of amendment is that there is some kind of emergency brake. If all pension funds go away at once, De Nederlandsche Bank can consult with the minister. The Minister could then take additional measures through an AMvB or ministerial arrangement. What measures could these be? Is the Minister prepared to use that when he sees at once that a number of funds go away for no underlying economic reasons? I'd like a comprehensive response to that. The problem with the directive is that DNB may be subject to a restrictive review under the directive in the event of a transition. So far, the Netherlands has been allowed to decide on which DNB can test. I must say that there were not too many conditions in the law. Mr Van Weyenberg was right about that. However, one of the conditions on which DNB is not allowed to test is whether supervision abroad is insufficient. That is why we are proposing in an amendment I tabled together with the Christian Union that DNB be allowed to carry out one additional test. And that is whether the 97.5% security measure is used abroad or whether it is equivalent. Why is that important? In the Netherlands, the pension commitment is quite harsh. It's pretty hard, because you need to know with 97.5% certainty that you won't end up undercover the following year. In the new pension scheme there is a lot of discussion about whether it should stay that way, but that is something else. Other countries do not have these 97.5% in any way. People have been given a pension commitment here with a certain degree of certainty and I think that security, if you transfer abroad, should be included in the law and that DNB should be able to test it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u15	Mr Omtzigt says that the commitment in the Netherlands is very strong, namely 97%. How can he explain that De Nederlandsche Bank recently said that there are discounts for 5 to 10 million Dutch people in 2019 and 2020 if the calculation rate remains at current level? And it still looks that way. That's not hard for a long time, is it? There have been discounts: for small metal 7%, almost twice 7%. And these big discounts are threatening too. Then you can't say that these commitments are harsh? That's fake security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u16	Perhaps I am clear when I say that pension commitments in the Netherlands are harder than abroad. Let me give you some examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u17	But you didn't say that. You said that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u18	Can you keep talking through the chairman? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u19	Then I'll specify that here. I would have liked those commitments to have been even harder. That's what you do with an insurance contract. Let me run it against the American situation. This is where the interest rate has been raised a few times and now pension fund after pension fund has to cut 20%, 30% or 40%, otherwise it will fall completely over. Real coverage rates from 50% to 60% are sharpness and impact in the United States. If you see that, the pension rights here are harder. One example is the Hogan judgment from Ireland. There, after the company's bankruptcy, participants lost more than 50% of their pension rights. At that time, the European Court of Justice also intervened. I am not saying that the discounts are not small, I am not saying that they are not painful, but the pension commitment in the Netherlands has proved to be more severe in recent years or less soft, if you will, in a number of other countries where capital systems exist and were. And that is why I think that at least that Dutch hardness should pass when you make that transfer of value.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u20	I welcome Mr Omtzig's clarification that it is less harsh than he said at first, but I hear him now saying, if I understand him correctly, that this 97.5% should actually be 100%, and that scares me. This means, moreover, that the level of coverage will be even lower and that there will be even more cuts. Are you serious? Then you'll have to explain. And if that's what you think, you're gonna keep doing that until the election?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u21	There is only one party that actually tries to soften the pension commitment because at the moment you increase the interest rate, you increase the expected returns and the risk of it falling short is greater. It would be a credit to the 50-PLUS party if it said: yes, we choose a high rate of calculation, yes, that probably means more indexation in the short term, but also more often a reduction in pensions in the medium term. That's from all these studies, too. That's a choice. I see that a number of parties also want to make that choice, but it is the consequence of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u22	We have debated in detail earlier in the first term of my own initiative law. You obviously did not listen very carefully to my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u23	Mr. Van Rooijen, would you like to continue speaking through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u24	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It was by no means the intention, and I repeat that the thrust of our draft initiative was to start indexing. It was only intended to remove the ECB effect by temporarily increasing the calculation rate by 0.5% for a maximum of five years only to reduce the risk of discounts; not even to build in the certainty that those discounts will not take place, only to reduce the chance of discounts. You should not blame me and our party for wanting to index this draft initiative. If you have read the documents correctly, and you usually do so, and take the debate back from your memory, at least my defense, that is bullshit, and you are making a mockery of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u25	I had the impression that Mr Van Rooijen's initiative law and the earlier proposals that even went towards a 4% rate of calculation would lead to a high rate of calculation in the present legislative proposal, i.e. a higher level of coverage and, indeed, a lower rate of reduction in the short term, absolutely, but a higher rate of reduction in the medium term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u26	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u27	Mr. Van Rooijen, finally. And the rest you can repeat in your own term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u28	Mr President, I am being attacked on a proposal that I have made here that misrepresentations are being made. I'm being provoked and then I want to defend myself. On the basis of the draft initiative, the Planning Bureau said: as long as it is temporary and also for up to five years at the request of the Council of State, I also have those five years of built-in securities that are negligiblely small; only if you used 0.5% for a longer period would these effects occur. Let me make this clear again. And if we continue to argue about that, I will quote the CPB report later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u29	You've said it now. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u30	That is what I look forward to, because at the time when you take that floor out of the calculation rate after five years and lower the rate of calculation at one stroke, the coverage rate will fall by 4 to 5 percentage points, and then unfortunately five years of delay will follow. I'm saying unfortunately, because I'm not in favour of discounts and I don't like it. That's all that law does at the time, and be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u31	I think we are all looking forward to the treatment of Mr Van Rooijen's law. But that aside. I heard Mr Omtzigt say that as far as the CDA is concerned, the security of 97.5% should be 100% rather than less. That is, of course, an interesting point, especially in the light of the negotiations on a pension agreement. Would it be acceptable to the CDA Group if that certainty were to fall in relation to the statements you have just made?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u32	It can't be 100%, because for that you have to keep an infinite reserve or you have to cover it exactly, like an insurer. So 100% is unfeasible. It is up to the social partners to make a proposal. I do not rule out the fact that this proposal actually chooses a slightly softer measure of security than the present one, and is therefore lower. I await with great interest and, may I say, with great impatience a proposal from the social partners. They also have very much CDA in the Netherlands the primacy about making a proposal for a pension commitment. By the way, they can even choose not to give up retirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u33	I think it's interesting. Mr Omtzigt says on the one hand that it should be 100% and, at the same time, that it is acceptable to the CDA if that commitment becomes softer. I think that is a strange contradiction in the few sentences that Mr Omtzigt says here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u34	Then I'll try to say it in a slightly different way. If you get a pension commitment, it has a certain height and a certain hardness. The moment you move a pension from one country to another, I think you should leave both the height and the hardness of the pension commitment intact. In the future, the hardness of the pension commitment could be reduced slightly. In the amendment we have chosen 97.5%. We have not put these 97.5% in the amendment, but we refer to the article in which it says 97.5%. That will automatically be the case. The point is that your pension stays as hard as it was here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u35	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u36	We're in complete agreement on that. In my term, I have already supported the amendment tabled by Mr Omtzigt, among others. I was talking about the contradiction in Mr Omtzigt's speech: the desire to move more towards 100% and, at the same time, to accept a softer commitment, i.e. a reduction of 97.5%. That's what I was getting at.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u37	That is the same latent wish I belong to Mr Van Rooijen. None of us really like that these discounts can take place. That was the background. Maybe it wasn't technically fully explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u38	I suggest you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u39	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u40	No, I would suggest that Mr Omtzigt should proceed with his speech first. It's a long night. You can come back to that later. First of all, I want Mr Omtzigt to continue with his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u41	But when can we respond to Mr Omtzigt's amendment? That's now, isn't it? He just presented it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u42	Are you all done explaining your amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u43	With this amendment, yes. I have two amendments. The other one's gonna be here any minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u44	A brief question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u45	A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u46	Mr Van Kent also pointed out, and you say it yourself: it is possible to lower the obligation in a pension agreement. Then what do you do with the amendment that is before you? That assumes 97.5%. You're gonna change that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u47	Maybe I didn't make it clear in my explanatory statement. In the explanatory memorandum to the article of law, you see under I and II that I do not put 97.5% in the article of law, but that I refer to Article 132 of the Pensions Act and Article 127 of the Occupational Pension Scheme Act. Article 132 of the Pension Act indicates the current hardness. If the social partners choose to take a different hardness, it will also be the hardness to which it is transferred. So it's pre-sorted that this can change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u48	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u49	Mr. Chairman. I'm on Article 83 of the Pension Act. Mr Van Rooijen will be very pleased with that in view of Mr Krol's last motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u50	I feared even some entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u51	No, no, no. This isn't gonna lead to entrapment. I know you're not waiting for that. Under Article 83 of the Pension Act, participants have an objection option. They may decide individually not to participate. This means that if a pension fund is not in liquidation and carries out collective transfer of value, the pensioner can say 'I am not in', even if two thirds say yes. We believe that all participants should be actively reminded of this, even though they have moved, sleeping or retired. Can the Minister confirm that a pension fund should bring this to the attention of the participant and indicate how strongly this should be brought to the attention of the participant so that he can say: even if the fund moves, I am not going along with it? There is still a problem in the next article of the Pension Act. That's Article 84. Article 84 is, like, bypass. You're going to liquidate the pension fund first. Then you'll say, "I'll lift the pension fund." Then Rule 83 is no longer applicable, because there is nothing left to be left in. The pension fund is being wound up. What are the rights of the participants? Isn't there the possibility of doing the same thing as in Article 83: agreeing individually? Or can the participant keep his pension somewhere in the Netherlands? Or is he obliged to do that rapid bypass from the Minister's letter of amendment if that rapid winding-up route is chosen? A number of rights of consent will be abolished, as the fund will be abolished. What can we do to ensure that this route is not used to circumvent Article 83 and that it is used only because a pension fund has to liquidate for other reasons? Then I have an additional question on the letter of amendment and on who is to give permission. That's two-thirds. Is the accountability body now out of play, or is that an omission? Can the supervisory board, the accountable body also possibly block the transfer, or is it just the two thirds? If it is just those two thirds, the question I opened up with is: why is it not the minimum participation? Of course, a little bit of a wetter. The accountability body is the gatekeeper of the participants and it should also be the one who closes the books at the end of a collective transfer of value abroad or liquidation. Mr. Chairman. I have a second amendment. This is about the Uniform Pension Review, which Mr Van Kent has already mentioned. We believe that the Uniform Pension Statement should also state where your pension is, who is the supervisor and what the coverage rate according to Dutch standards is. At the beginning I mentioned all that joke you can pull, namely moving abroad, and tada: among other rules you are higher. Then the Uniform Pension Statement is no longer a uniform pension statement, because then I can choose how beautiful it looks. As long as I move to the right country. So we say: that must be in a Dutch form. That is the amendment that I, together with Mr Bruins, have tabled. 12.............................................................................................................................. I'd like to hear what the government thinks about that. That actually brings me to another point from Mr Van Kent. The Uniform Pension Statement will be comprehensively regulated. You might think that uniform pension statement is like a bank statement. You can derive rights from a bank statement if there's something wrong with it. But at the time that Uniform Pension Statement is wrong, a participant can derive very little rights from it. Wouldn't it be wise to take a good look at what a participant can now base accurate information on exactly how many rights he has? Because many pension schemes are incredibly complicated, that is very important. The CDA also likes to see that those rights always state how much survivor's pension and disability pension there is and how these types of pension relate when you change jobs when it is insured on a risk basis. I'll get to the key functions. They have useful sides in themselves. Pension funds are obliged to report abuses themselves. But can I understand what the punishment is if the official doesn't do it himself? So, there's a serious failure or a big mistake that the actuaries should have seen. It's not reported. Is the actuaries a criminal offence? Is that re-insured and all cleaned away? Or do we really say: no, then that person is responsible and responsible for that too? Otherwise, of course, it doesn't make much sense. We should, of course, simply abolish fiduciary management. Because if you have fiduciary management, as a fund, you're totally out of control. In the United States that is not accidentally prohibited. You not only let the entire assets be managed, but then you say to the asset manager: do with it what you think is right. That's unwise. Does the government agree with me that we should not have a fiduciary policy? It is not a policy to outsource the policy, but you must remain in control of the transactions that are being done. You can order those transactions to take place within a certain range, but it is always the responsibility of the fund. You don't spend the most important job! And that's not so important anywhere else for nothing. Mr. Chairman. The importance of our pension fund is great. I would very much like the Minister to promise that, in a year or two, when he makes the evaluation of the emergency braking procedure, he will also give a more detailed account of how this law works. And it would be totally good if he would just spontaneously inform the Chamber if large funds were to move or threaten to move. Is the government prepared to do so? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got ten minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u52	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Linde of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u53	Mr President, first of all. Perhaps we should do something about the titles of our legislative proposals, because the formal title of this bill deprives every ordinary Dutchman of the desire to watch or listen to this debate. So let me just call it IORP II and try to summarize the most important part of the bill in normal Dutch. Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, we have good rules to protect our pensions. Capital requirements are high, interest rates are low and supervision is strict. Some colleagues think the capital requirements are too high, the calculation rate is too low and supervision is too strict, but all in all we are happy with our pension system and we are attached to those solid Dutch rules. So you won't immediately be happy when you hear that your pension scheme will be placed with an institution outside our safe Netherlands. But it can happen, for example, if you work at a multinational company and there are good reasons for combining pension schemes from all over the world and having them implemented in one place. But then you want to make sure that your assets are not transferred to a country where they all take it less closely and that requires rules. This bill gives the supervisor and pension participants more control when their pension scheme is transferred to a foreign pension institution. And from now on, De Nederlandsche Bank must grant permission; the conditions for this are now being implemented for the first time. As a pension participant, you will be informed in advance, and there is a right of approval with accountability bodies. In addition, the individual right to object is retained. So the people who are involved, the participants, are better protected. We were wondering, in the run-up to this bill, whether we had sufficiently incorporated all the safeguards against supervisory arbitrage into the bill. Fortunately, however, today we have received a letter of amendment which states a two-thirds consent requirement. That seems to me to be a strong guarantee in the interests of the participants. One more question to the Minister: can he explain to us how this works in practice? You can assume that in practice you only get a response from the people who are angry about the flagging out of their pension. Have we found the right balance between the interests of the participants and the existing arrangements on the one hand and the Dutch locational climate on the other? Mr. Chairman. The VVD has looked extra critically at the bill, because we are always reluctant to interfere with the security of our second pillar pension. We do not see that fear confirmed in this directive. No new powers are being created for the European Commission or EIOPA, nor is there any further harmonisation of the capital requirements for pension funds. And the Minister confirmed that in the note on the report. Apart from the stress test carried out by EIOPA, which can be enforced through DNB, I do not see any other powers. Of course, this directive has a strong impact on Dutch pension funds: comprehensive risk management, key functions for risk management, explicit separation between performance and audit and the addition of a mandatory triennial own risk assessment. Can the Minister address the administrative burden of these governance requirements? On the one hand, you can expect large pension funds to have arranged all this properly. On the other hand, I am surprised that this will cost EUR 34 million in structural terms. Is it that bad in order? It also takes into account the size, nature, scale and complexity of the respective funds. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say about controlled remuneration policy that I hope that my pension fund is able to get good people out of the market to manage my money and that the WNT does not seem to me to be an appropriate measure for that. A few questions about the UPO, the Uniform Pension Review. We were going to communicate in pictures and there was a lot of discussion about that. Can we conclude that pictures are just above those European requirements? The VVD considers it important that our pension system remains a national issue, and we regret the fact that the law of the restraining edge appears to be in force on this important point too. Your pension needs to be understandable, and now it's just getting more complicated. I would ask the Minister to clarify this point again. Then this summer we received a letter from the Dutch barristers, which states that the individual right of objection from the directive was snowed down in the bill. This would be based only on collective actuarial equivalence and not on the individual level. Can the Minister go into that, even if it's just for the history of law? It's about Article 90a, I'm just saying. I would also like to inform the Minister that we are now hearing in Brussels a whisper that an IORP III is coming, in which there are indeed delegated powers to the Commission, namely investment policy. Can the Minister confirm that, and can he promise immediately that he will stand up when that happens? Finally, Mr President, we are discussing the implementation of a European directive which is for the most people in the Netherlands abracadabra. Meanwhile, there's an elephant in this room. The Netherlands is waiting for a pension system that is fair, transparent and understandable to all participants, a pension scheme where you simply see what has been laid in for you and how much return has been made on it, a scheme that feels fair to people who are already retired and who are no longer in a position to improve their retirement provision with some extra investment or extra work, a scheme that is understandable to people of 21 who do not even believe that money will be in the pot for them, and a scheme that will be reasonable for people of my age when they decide to move on as self-employed in the middle of their career. In short, I hope that my next debate with this minister will be on a full pension agreement from the ESC.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u54	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linde. I see an interruption by Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u55	The VVD's plea not to support the application of the norming top incomes Act doesn't surprise me, because in the past the VVD has rejected all the proposals made by the SP to tackle these big grabs. So that's nothing new. But something new is that, according to everything we know now, because it was leaked in De Telegraaf and can also be read in the Volkskrant yesterday, the personal retirement pots, which are actually a hobby of D66 that has also come back in the coalition agreement, are actually already off the table. That's what we see and read everywhere. Now I hear the VVD making a warm plea for that. Does the VVD also make this a condition for a pension agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u56	That's what the coalition agreement says. For the rest, I can only wait and see what the social partners come up with, but I understand that Mr Van Kent has more information on this than I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u57	I just mentioned two newspaper articles on which I base myself. But the VVD is raising this issue here, during a debate that is not really about that. So that is a political signal to employers and workers who are negotiating, I think. The VVD doesn't do that for nothing. I note that the VVD stands in the way of a positive outcome rather than the VVD helping the process, because with those personal retirement pots I'm probably gonna let you say it nicely stay at a D66 hobby; thank goodness, because they would be a disaster for our pension system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u58	I would like to confirm to Mr Van Kent that I have gone into politics to give a political signal from time to time. Let me say immediately in reply what he says about the WNT, the following. The VVD is not in the trade union movement. The SP, together with the PvdA, I can say that it is rather thick in the joint project FNV and is therefore, indirectly, about the remuneration policy of pension funds. If you think something needs to change, you can arrange it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u59	Finally, Mr. Van Kent, because these are now two interruptions excitingly entwined into one. You have one last chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u60	As well as the VVD has a position among employers in the Netherlands, who are equally concerned with remuneration policy. I tell you, if employers and employees had organized that 6 tonnes were not paid, I would not have made this proposal here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u62	I think that's what employers and employees are about, and I like to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u63	Then I see an interruption by Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u64	Following Mr Van der Linde's political signal, I would like to ask him a question. The pension system belongs to the social partners, including working conditions and deferred wages. What if the social partners come up with a proposal that is fundamentally different from the coalition agreement, so in other words, it does not apply to individual jars? So what's the VVD gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u65	My party leader can always say so beautifully that he doesn't answer like-dan questions. Something will come, we hope. We hope that that will be neatly within the dotted lines of the coalition agreement. If it isn't, we've got a new situation and we're gonna look at it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u66	But you're not defending the individual jars for nothing. For my part, I will give the signal that my party is absolutely opposed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u67	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u68	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linde. Then we need the input of Mr Smeulders from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about some changes in the work and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision. An important subject, but I do wonder how many people are looking at NPO Politics now. Nevertheless, I would like to discuss three aspects of this bill with the Minister. On the first aspect, Mr Omtzigt has already mentioned the net in detail. A lot of questions have been asked about it. These are cross-border value transfers. I believe that the amendments he has tabled together with the Christian Union are a good addition. We therefore tend to support it, but I am very interested in the Minister's response to it. In any case, I am very pleased that the Minister himself has sent out a number of amendments this afternoon, which we fully support. However, I still have a few questions for the Minister on this subject. It is not yet clear to me whether this bill will allow many more pensioners to go abroad. What does the Minister expect? As a result, will this reduce investment in the Netherlands? How many percent of the 1,400 billion dollars worth of money that can hardly be proposed is now being invested in the Netherlands? How does the Minister expect this percentage to develop in the coming years as a result of this bill? Does the Minister see it as a problem when less money would be invested in the Netherlands? The second issue concerns the different interest rates. If you, as a pension executive, move from the Netherlands to a country with a higher calculation rate, it may suddenly be that you are improving because, for example, pensions can be indexed. Is it true that individual pension entitlements and pension rights should remain at least the same after the collective transfer of value? So does this mean you can't go backwards? Does this mean, in practice, that funds can only be transferred to countries with higher accounting rates or at least with a more flexible review framework? Doesn't that give you one-way traffic from funds to countries with high accounting rates? In Belgium you can count on expected return on the liabilities side and not in the Netherlands. Are the Belgians at such risk or are we so strict here in the Netherlands? If the Belgians are prudent according to the Minister, why should we not take over part of their system here in the Netherlands? If the Belgians are not prudent according to the Minister, should we have our money moved there? The government considers it undesirable for Dutch pension schemes to be carried out only in order to avoid prudential supervision outside the Netherlands, but for the time being the government indicates that this is not the case. I would like to hear from the Minister how this is going to be kept up to date and whether the Minister can do anything about it. All the questions I have just asked lead to a more fundamental point, because why do Member States have different rules and calculation rates? What does it say about our review framework when neighbouring countries apply very different interest rates? I'm really looking forward to that. The third point is sustainability. You won't be surprised that that's what GroenLinks comes up with. In order to implement the Directive, it is established that pension administrators should include information on how their investment policies take into account the environment, climate, human rights and social relations. My first question to the Minister is whether this information is being reviewed by an external body. Are there any objective criteria? How is it prevented that a pension administrator can claim that these factors are being taken into account without any obligation, whereas in practice this appears to be very disappointing? Moreover, the above obligation is also met by indicating that these factors are not taken into account in the investment policy. We don't think that's desirable. Pensioners are not obliged under this directive to take into account the environment, climate, human rights and social relations in their investment policies, according to the Minister on page 32 of the note following the report. Now I am sure he will say: yes, it is true that this is not just on his territory, but I would very much like to hear from this Minister how he looks at it himself. What does the Minister himself think about the fact that environmental, climate, human rights and social relations should not be taken into account? Can he tell me if there are any developments in this area? Is there any regulation coming from Europe to monitor this? Is he willing to possibly initiate that? Or, unfortunately, is it just a non-binding agreement with the sector itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u70	Thank you. I see an interruption by Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u71	In view of the clock very briefly. I welcome the words on sustainability and the need for participants to play a much greater role in it. I have previously announced an initiative law that participants can also influence exclusion policies. After these very fine words, I look forward to working with Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u73	Nice to meet you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u74	Very nice. I would like to give the floor to Mr De Jong of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u75	Mr President, thank you very much. In front of us is a legislative proposal that ensures that Brussels now has direct influence on our pension system, on our pension rules and on our legislation. Influence on how our pension system is monitored. Influence on the way the Dutch pension participants are informed. Influence on how sustainable and green Dutch pension funds are or are not. You name it. It is a directive which, according to the rapporteur, Brian Hayes in the European Parliament, should be seen as an adaptation to a debate towards a 'internal European pension market'. It is a directive which has been received with great cheer in the European Parliament and which has been supported by almost all Dutch political parties represented in the European Parliament. It was 23 November 2016, the day when the European Parliament briefly discussed the directive we are talking about here. A list of spokesmen was briefly addressed in the European Parliament's plenary. Some uncritical statements about how great this directive is, passed through the review. Because, yes, there is never really a debate in the European Parliament and there is virtually no criticism there. Former MEP Cora van Nieuwenhuizen, now a VVD Minister, found the treatment of this directive to be a 'Dutch party'. She was very pleased with the outcome of the negotiations. And PvdA'er Paul Tang was also in his nutshell and left with much dedain all those ordinary Dutch people who are worried about Brussels' influence on the Dutch pension system, know that they had been completely wrong with their criticism and just had to count to ten before finding out about how Brussels handles their retirement. How elitist can you be? The CDA also took part in this debate. Looking at the prior introduction of Pieter Omtzigt here in the House of Representatives, you would expect that the CDA would be fierce, at least critical and eventually vote against the directive. It was the ultimate moment. After all, it was Pieter Omtzigt who, all along with a lot of bombs, had indicated how bad IORP II was, how much Brussels is getting influence with this directive, that the so-called minor changes could have a major impact on our pension? It was Omtzigt who was seen in almost all the media as the great anti-IORP-man and thus gave the CDA an EU-critical face in campaign time for far too many people? It was Omtzigt who, with his endless lectures during debates here in the Chamber, expressed his disgust and frequently expressed what the CDA was like against all of this, as he said today. So you expect the CDA to vote against in the European Parliament, that the CDA will do everything in its power to stop this directive, right at its source, there in the European Parliament, which will protect the Netherlands from a massive drain, which would keep Brussels away from Dutch pension assets. But what is our surprise? They voted in favour. And not just for that, no, they voted for it with complete conviction. Anyone who looks back on the debate will see Jeroen Lenaers of the CDA in the European Parliament glancing all the way through his support for IORP II. He even congratulated the rapporteur on the result achieved. In his opinion, we should not underestimate the result achieved. The next day, the CDA voted in favour of the IORP II Directive. It voted for more influence on our pension system. It voted for more Brussels influence at 1,300 billion in Dutch pension assets. And, Chairman, now you may think: yes, that may be so, Mr. De Jong, but well, the CDA in the House of Representatives was against, what are you really complaining about? Well, that's different. When I tabled a motion here last year to stop the implementation of this directive and this Brussels impact on our pension system, the CDA voted with Omtzigt against the PVV motion. They voted against. And do you know why that is? That is because the CDA has two faces: a face for the stage and its real face that we see again during the votes. And they get away with it over and over again. And that is because the CDA knows that almost no one is watching debates in the European Parliament, let alone voting there. Unfortunately, the same applies to the debates here in the Chamber and the corresponding votes. Again, this debate is so late in the evening. No wonder it doesn't have to count on a million viewers. The people at home after a day's work have something better to do. And so the CDA can pretend to be against Brussels' impact on our pension system and then simply vote for it undisturbedly. Meanwhile, the media like it and let Pieter Omtzigt keep his story for the camera and in all kinds of written press. Today, too, it is omtzigt who, with his 30 minutes of speaking time, is doing EU-critically and then, while his party sits in the cabinet, slavishly resigns to the implementation of this monstrosity. Just because the CDA is ultimately also for more EU. Mr. Chairman. It's this kind of hypocrisy, this kind of political scam that people are sick of. People are more than tired of this kind of scam. The PVV I have a bit of a cold, as you can see, and not so much emotionally from the start has been against IORP II and has seized all the possibilities to stop implementation in recent years. In the European Parliament, the PVV voted against and here in the Chamber, the PVV tabled motions to stop implementation, but time and time again it could not count on sufficient support. Mr President, I will conclude. The PVV is against making pension systems European. The PVV is opposed to changing Dutch legislation in the field of social policy and therefore in the area of pensions at the direction of the European Commission or the European Parliament. The PVV is against influence from Brussels on our Dutch pension assets. In short, the PVV does not want any EU interference and regulation at all. This should also be a fundamental principle of this Chamber. The Netherlands is perfectly capable of dealing with its own laws and regulations. We're not gonna let them prescribe the laws from Brussels, are we? That is also why I once again call on this cabinet not to continue its implementation and simply withdraw this whole bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u76	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u77	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions of the Chamber in the note following the report and thank you for the fact that we now have the implementation in a separate legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. We're facing a diabolical dilemma. 50PLUS and the opposition as a whole supported Mr Omtzigt in June 2016 when he asked the government not to agree to the proposed IORP Directive on pension funds and to ensure that no proposals for a new directive were made in this area. That didn't quite work out. Supervisory arbitrage is now not an abstract vision of the future, but a harsh reality. Unseemly? Yes, as far as 50PLUS is concerned. But at the same time, unfortunately, it is not incomprehensible either. The move from the first pension fund to Belgium mainly demonstrates the arbitrary nature of our own supervisory framework. The Dutch supervisory framework has priced itself out of the market compared to that of other European countries. If a pension fund, taking into account its mission, concludes that it can accomplish its mission under the prudential supervisory framework of another European Member State, it is also a form of market functioning. After all, in the pension landscape of another country, pension liabilities are valued less at a higher accounting rate, with a higher expected return. The result of this market operation is therefore not surprising, but it is a dilemma. We could accept funds moving to other Member States or we could close this door. Accepting the whole Chamber finds it undesirable and closing the door was and is contrary to European regulations. The improvement brought about by this directive is that the national supervisory authority now has a clearer veto through the review of three conditions in the case of collective transfer of value to another Member State. There is also approval of participants on the basis of Article 83. What 50PLUS chooses has been clear for a long time. We repeat what we have been saying since its inception: The Netherlands must stop praising its extreme view of the calculation rate from the market. Because as we can see now, in addition to cutting down Dutch pensions, this also leads to all kinds of other developments that are very undesirable. The unnecessarily shortening of pensions on the basis of an extreme interest rate vision and massive monetary manipulation is for me the fight of this century. But now we see that the extreme prudence of the Netherlands also has other consequences, namely the possible departure of pension funds from the Netherlands. Contrary to cutting pensions, there's really no one waiting for that. The position of 50PLUS is clear. We did not want to agree with the IORP II directive, which continues to make this possible, but with a better veto. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, the so-called market valuation and risk-free interest rates are now addressed. What use is one very arbitrary form of market valuation within a supervisory framework when there are 28 arbitrary forms of market valuation to choose from, I ask. I also ask the Minister: is this not actually a form of market forces? The Pension Act says that pensions should be valued at market value. Firstly, there is no market for pension liabilities and pensions are not a financial product. It's a social product. The reason for the existence of pension funds is to achieve the best possible pension. It's deferred pay based on invested premiums, and nothing else. The threatening pension reductions are the result of the internationally extreme Dutch supervisory framework. That supervisory framework makes it possible for Draghi, with his manipulation of the calculation rate, to break into our pension system. As a result, discounts have already been made and there is a threat of further large discounts, as I said before, for 5 to 10 million participants in 2019 and 2020, says De Nederlandsche Bank. I was also with colleague Van Kent at the FNV event with 3,000 attendees, where I explained our position. Does the Minister know, I ask, an example of a European Member State in which Mr Draghi can break into a national pension system in the same disruptive way? By linking the so-called risk-free interest rate to the interest rate on government loans, our system is much more vulnerable to this manipulation, because the ECB does buy unbridled government loans, but no other value, such as shares or real estate. As a result, our interest rate is at least 1% lower, as De Nederlandsche Bank also says 0.7 to 1.5. The ECB has also recognised that it is at least 1%. Our own rigidity is potentially the great driving force behind a movement of pension funds towards other supervisory regimes abroad. The first sheep is already over the dam and they immediately take 11% extra coverage. As far as my group is concerned, we are restoring the level playing field in Europe as quickly as possible by applying less extreme prudential supervision rules in the Netherlands. This can be done quickly and simply by adopting my own initiative proposal. We propose to increase the interest rate by 0.5% prudently for up to five years in order to mitigate the effect of the ECB's monetary manipulation. I would like to say clearly here that, with these strict rules, we are going to get rid of the funds here and then almost all of the threatening pension reductions can be dropped. Pension assets have doubled to 1,400 billion in the crisis period and we have been counting returns of 7% for 30 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u78	A very simple question. If that level playing field, as it is now called, should be the same throughout Europe, would it not make much more sense for us to leave it entirely to Brussels to establish the accounting rate and the entire supervisory framework? It's not my idea, but I'm asking Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u79	Not mine either, but it is true that, according to the rules of EIOPA, there is freedom to determine the calculation rate and the rate of return you set, as long as you stay below a ceiling. That is where the countries remain, including Belgium. I'm just saying: if you want to avoid relocations, what we all want, then the Netherlands needs to adapt better to what is possible within European legislation and therefore also take more account of expected returns, and you must be sure that if you are by far the strictest, you will be at extra risk not only of the participants, but also of the funds that could therefore go to another country, which in itself we would prefer not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u80	But the question is: why not just a European approach and the same everywhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u81	My party and, fortunately, a number of other groups agree that Europe absolutely should not interfere with the second pillar. We can decide for ourselves what calculation rate or return we use for the obligations. My only plea is to do so more realistically, because risk-free interest rates are far out of line, with the consequences we are discussing tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u82	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u83	Mr. Chairman. In Belgium, when calculating pension rights, pensioners are counted with an expected return of 3.5%, in the Netherlands for pensioners 1%. That's a huge rift. The 3.5% in Europe, where D66 has the most friends, is simply called prudent. Nevertheless, the Belgian discount rate is almost twice as high as what I am trying to achieve with our initiative law: we 2 and temporarily in Belgium 3.5. The silent transfer of pension capital from old to young due to the large fall in calculation rates over the last ten years from over 4 to slightly above 1, has been a 7% shift in pension assets, according to a study by Mercer of January last year. In addition, the effects of the non-cost-covering premium and the declining Ultimate Forward Rate, which is falling only for pension funds, are added. In our own initiative law, we correct only a small part of the interest rate effect. We leave those other adverse effects, the non-cost-covering premium and the falling Ultimate Forward Rates, untouched. So you are dealing with a prudent but also a somewhat reasonable elderly party. The extremities are in our surveillance framework. There's got to be a bottom in there. Mr. Chairman. The emergence of my party is inextricably linked to the boulderic and extremely rapid increase in the AOW age. For more than 50 years it was 65 years. The costs were just in the basic path, as it is called. From this morning's Volkskrant we deduce that the acceleration of the increase in the age of AOW may be partly reversed. In that case, it only affects the group of people who are around 60 years old today. My party was not set up to settle the AOW age just as well for that small group, but that is probably what the cabinet is embracing now. It's impossible for my party to agree to that. It is an empty gesture, because it has no budgetary effect in the longer term. It's a one-time thing. It does nothing for our children and grandchildren, the people under 60 years of age. If Minister Koolmees thinks he's pulling 50PLUS over the line by making arrangements for that small group of 60s, he's totally misjudged us. 50PLUS wants a lower AOW age for all Dutch, now and in the future. It says a lot about this minister that he is the one who comes up with a temporary special treatment for a small group of older voters at the expense of the rest of the voters under 60. We would never consider that. I do have a word for it in this respect: couple sale. An advantage for a small group should be the bait for accepting a pension agreement as envisaged by the cabinet. But we are refusing to exchange an AOW tip against the dismantling of our pension system. The AOW is not a bargaining chip. You will understand that 50PLUS welcomes the view of the large pension funds that came out this week. They seem to support the leaked draft agreement of May. "Mei" is then with a short "ei" and not a long "ij" yes, chairman, I had to laugh about it myself. It calls for less security and lower buffers which also allow indexing. The personal retirement pots are already off the table in the concept. That's a reason for a party, but pay attention: it's still in the coalition agreement. Is it true that the future of our system will be discussed in the Council of Ministers next week or next weeks, including the question of exactly what should happen to the AOW age and whether anything should change to the link to life expectancy, which is now one-on-one? Mr. Chairman. Back to the directive. According to my group, the Netherlands, as chairman, has achieved a very good result in the negotiations. I would like to stress that there is absolutely no danger of worse in a number of areas, such as the fact that the solvency requirements and delegated powers of the European Commission and EIOPA have not been met. What we are still concerned about is the additional costs involved in this proposal. I am thinking in particular of the governance requirements and the new comprehensive communication rules that relate in particular to the UPO information. As an example, there is an annual need for comprehensive information for the sleepers of pension funds. We have nothing against the demands in themselves, but I would like to make sure that we approach them in the most cost-effective way. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u84	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. Before we ask the Minister to respond in his first term, I will suspend the meeting until 11.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u85	I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, Mr Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After the party of the Cradle, now the technical reality of the Institutions for Occupational Retirement Provisions II, IORP II. Many questions have been asked, including in the written round, about this implementation law. I'll have five cubes in a minute. I shall begin with a brief general text and a look back over the past few years. The most important issue tonight is cross-border collective value transfer. Then I come to key functions, communication and finally to the specific questions about the Belgian route. This discussion on IORP II has been going on for a very long time. In fact, I was still a pension spokesperson in 2011, 2012 when, like Mr Omtzigt, I saw the start of this discussion in the Chamber and the first reports on the revision of the IORP I Directive came out. The Cabinet and previous Cabinets have actively supported the Dutch interest in the revision of the IORP Directive. During the negotiations, the cabinet has always looked at the possible implications of the proposed amendment of the directive for the Dutch pension sector. The revised IORP Directive entered into force on 13 January 2017 and should be implemented by all European Member States on 13 January 2019. I would like to go back to the initial phase, which started in 2011, when the European Commission announced its commitment to harmonising capital requirements for pension funds, with the aim of creating a level playing field with insurers. The Netherlands, together with a number of other Member States, opposed this, as this could lead to an unnecessary increase in the buffer requirements for pension funds. As is well known, the European Commission has finally decided not to do so and to leave the current capital requirements unchanged. At the time, the House of Representatives also sent the cabinet with a clear mandate. In line with the mandate of the Court, three key points have been achieved: no delegated powers for the European Commission or EIOPA, a limited level of detail of the provisions on pension communication and governance and clear rules of play for cross-border activities, with clear powers for DNB as supervisor. I will come back to that in detail later. In recent years, my predecessor has informed you at various times about the progress and results of the negotiations. Mr Omtzigt referred to this in his speech. That was indeed a hectic process, with strong decisions taken in the final phase in a short time. In conclusion, however, it can be said that the final revised IORP Directive has become far less far-reaching than the European Commission's original plans. The Directive is in line with the Dutch pension system, while for Member States with a less developed second pillar pension scheme it can contribute to a more future-proof direction of retirement provision, which ultimately also benefits Europe's entire financial stability. The Directive now confines itself to valuable general rules in the context of governance, risk management, information provision and cross-border activities. With the proposal now before us, we have tried to translate the directive into Dutch Pensions Act as sec as possible. I would now like to turn specifically to the issues raised by the Chamber in addition to the note on the report. I will start with cross-border pension activities and collective value transfer. The implementation proposal sets out the European agreed rules on cross-border pension activities. There are two types of cross-border pension activity. Firstly, to have future construction carried out in another Member State. Secondly, to have future and previous construction carried out in another Member State, i.e. cross-border collective value transfer. For the sake of clarity, both activities are also possible under the current IORP Directive, the IORP I Directive. So that's already possible. However, the Directive and the present legislative proposal lay down further rules on cross-border collective value transfer. An important added value of the directive now before us, of the proposal now before us, is that clear criteria have been laid down for De Nederlandsche Bank as a supervisor to review and, if necessary, prevent cross-border collective transfers of value. A majority of members and beneficiaries, or their representatives, will also have to agree to a cross-border collective transfer of value to another Member State. These two criteria have not yet been defined in the current IORP Directive, the IORP I Directive. They will provide better protection to participants in cross-border collective value transfer. I'm going to repeat this term a lot. At some point I'm gonna trip over it! From the many questions raised by the Chamber in several rounds, I have noticed that the Chamber is concerned about a possible relocation of Dutch pension assets to another Member State. I understand those concerns. There is a fear that supervisory arbitrage will lead to the transfer of pension schemes to pension administrators in other countries with higher accounting rates. European laws and regulations lay down minimum requirements within the framework of capital requirements and Member States can each give their own form to the financial supervisory framework. It is therefore not harmonised in Europe, as long as certain minimum requirements are met. For example, some Member States base their interest rates on the expected average return on certain investments rather than on the risk-free interest rates we use in the Netherlands. If you will allow me, Mr President, I do not want to discuss this evening the level of calculation interest or the future of the pension system. I really want to stick to this bill, even with regard to time. I have also looked at the wider debate on cross-border collective value transfer in response to the many questions raised in the note on the report, but also in connection with the recent parliamentary questions by Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Omtzigt on the Aon communication. This afternoon I sent you a letter of amendment with two additional safeguards for the supervisor to keep an eye on it. It's about two parts. Instead of approval by the accountability body or the stakeholder body, a two-thirds majority of the responding participants and a two-thirds majority of the responding pensioners should agree to a cross-border collective value transfer. I would like to make it clear that, in addition to the three requirements now laid down in IORP II, the collective transfer of value can count on sufficient support from the various sections of the pension fund. I think this is important, especially in the case of such an important decision as a cross-border transfer of value. In addition, I have included in the letter of amendment a basis in the law which allows for further rules to be laid down for such transfers of value if future developments so warrant. This could include, for example, a more detailed definition of the requirement on which the supervisor assesses when transferring collective cross-border values. In general, there can of course be a legitimate reason for the transfer of value. A number of speakers have also said this, including Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Omtzigt. One example is indeed the multinational that wants to keep his pension together in one country. Or take the case of border workers working in the Netherlands or Germany. This can be a legitimate reason to ensure that everything is brought under one pension fund. That's the way the supervisor should look at it. There are safeguards in IORP II to achieve that. To make it completely impossible, therefore, seems undesirable to me in the interests of the participants. In addition, it has been very limited in the past. That is also what I wrote in the note on the report. It concerns about 11,000 participants who have had a cross-border collective transfer of value. It's about 0.1% of the power. So that's limited. At the same time, I can see that this is just a point of attention for all of us. That's what I can tell from the questions from the Chamber. Against this background, I also sent the letter of amendment with the two additional steps. For the sake of completeness, I think it is important to note that if, for example, a fund moves from the Netherlands to another country, the obligation will also lapse, which is just such an important part of the Dutch pension system. This also means that the occupational pension funds cannot just go to another country, because it also affects collectivity. The obligation will then lapse. This in general, Mr. Chairman. In addition, a lot of specific questions have been asked on this subject. Now I want to go through it step by step with you. Mr Omtzigt, who asked the most questions on this subject...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u87	There is an interruption by Mr Van Kent, perhaps on the general part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u88	Yes. I hear the Minister say: I understand the concerns. Then I hear him sketching a rather ink-black picture when it comes to a pension fund that simply moves its assets abroad because of supervision and calculation rules. Does the Minister also consider it undesirable and wrong if pension funds do so? And does the Minister therefore think that further proposals made to make this more difficult would be desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u89	I did not send a letter of amendment to your Chamber this afternoon for nothing. I did so precisely in order to have additional guarantees in addition to the three requirements set out in IORP II. Because I also see that it can wring. At the same time, I find it difficult to say in advance that this is a matter of supervisory arbitrage. That was also my response to Mr Van Rooijen's and Mr Omtzigt's questions about Aon. That's hard to prove. Moreover, as I said in general terms, it is not necessarily bad when it happens. There may be very legitimate reasons, such as an important reason for the participant as an efficient execution or lower cost. So I think you should take a nuanced look at this. What I think is positive about this IORP II directive is that it is now being made explicit on which criteria DNB can test for such a cross-border transfer of value. I would add two more to that, particularly in order to ensure that this process is careful. I also want to monitor developments. I have just said that it is a limited phenomenon; it concerns 0.1% of pension assets. But it's important to me. It is our joint responsibility to keep our finger on the pulse here, which is why there are monitoring arrangements and a delegation clause in it. In doing so, I do justice to the concerns that have been widely noted in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u90	It's a long answer. I actually asked whether the Minister would like to take a stand here against the fact that there are pension funds or could be in the future, which simply move pension assets abroad because of supervisory requirements and accounting rules. If the Minister makes these statements here, then I assume they will, because we must also trust the Minister. In the letter of amendment, the Minister gave himself the opportunity to lay down further conditions, i.e. to stop pension funds from moving their assets. If the Minister would like to make this statement, I think the Chamber can be more confident that the Minister will intervene if that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u91	I find it undesirable that this should happen purely because of the supervisory arbitrage. I would merely like to guard against too strong a black-and-white image that I think Mr Van Kent might misunderstand or not knowingly outline in his question. In general, I agree. When it comes to supervisory arbitrage, I very much agree with Mr Van Kent. At the same time, this is also nuanced in practice. The underlying considerations for companies to do this are really not just supervisory arbitrage. We've got the handles. We have the instruments. We have the agreement that we're gonna monitor it. I think it's a serious point that I'm really looking at. I think those are good guarantees for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u92	I agree with the Minister that supervisory arbitrage in itself should not be the first driving force, but the facts are, of course, the facts. We have the strictest regime. The cause of the problem we are discussing here and the consequences that we do not consider desirable lie in the fact that we have by far the lowest calculation rate. Is the Minister not prepared to look at the accounting rate for his policies in the coming months, when we talk about the pension system? Because then he takes away an important cause, namely supervisory arbitrage, so leaving because of the interest differences. That is the most appropriate way of preventing what we really do not want. If he doesn't, he's got to realize that door's wide open at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u93	Now we are in danger of entering into a debate on the rate of calculation. Mr Van Rooijen himself put forward an own-initiative proposal for this. We're waiting for the second term of that. That debate is still ongoing. This discussion is going to be very mixed up. Because of tonight's technical questions about IORP II, I think that this discussion should be held at a different time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u94	I understand the Minister's response, also because of the late hour. We'll get back to this, too. The Minister's talking about surveillance arbitrage. He must at least acknowledge that it is only or above all because we are most vulnerable, because we have the lowest calculation rate. The Minister can't say he doesn't want to talk about it, because then he won't talk about the cause. And that is why you are submitting a letter of amendment and why we are talking about this. We want to avoid something we all don't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u95	I think that Mr Van Rooijen's presentation is too black and white. In the recent past, there have been examples of cross-border collective value transfer. There are often very good substantive reasons for this, which are also in the interest of the participants. For me, the world is a lot more nuanced than Mr Van Rooijen says. The prudential rules in other countries are also much more nuanced than just higher accounting rates. Mr Van Rooijen knows that. I have also replied to the questions raised by the House. Then it's about the calculation rate discussion again via a curve. The cabinet's attitude is clear. I also indicated this in the first period of the initiative proposal. We find the risk-free discount rate the best discount rate given the nominal security and given the distribution of the collective pots. I'd be happy to talk to you about that in your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u96	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u97	From good information I have received, I am aware that there are pension funds that want to follow the Aon example. They are seriously considering this step, because according to the Belgian regime, the expected return for pensioners is 3.5% and according to the Dutch 1%. You really should take that with you. We will soon have to talk about this in a different context.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u98	This is the context I brought with me. That is why I have also sent a letter of amendment today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u99	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u100	Mr Omtzigt asked the specific question whether De Nederlandsche Bank should take the 97.5% test for nominal security abroad. Under the current law, DNB does not review this, even if a national value transfer within the Netherlands is carried over as a pension fund value. I shall return to the desirability of this in a moment when the amendments are discussed at the end of my reply. Mr Omtzig asked what purpose it should be for pension funds to be able to move to another country. I just mentioned that, but I'm doing it even more detailed. In 2016, the Ministry of Social Affairs commissioned an investigation into the extent of cross-border pension activities and the employer's motivation to accommodate a pension scheme in another Member State. It appears that achieving economies of scale is an important reason for multinationals with their own corporate pension fund to accommodate pension schemes in another Member State. Another consideration mentioned in the investigation is the possibility to include the sponsor guarantee in the definition of the required buffers in other Member States, which is not possible in the Netherlands. So that has nothing to do with the calculation rate, but with how you appreciate the backup of the sponsor. Mr Omtzigt asked a specific question about the accountability body.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u101	These were the reasons in 2016, when this new Directive was not yet applicable, but it was covered by the IORP I Directive of 3 June 2003. Therefore, there was no supervisory arbitrage. Does the Minister agree with me that supervisory arbitrage, i.e. simply moving it because your arithmetic rate and your coverage will increase, is undesirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u102	That is actually the same question as Mr Van Kent just had. The answer to that is: yes, I find that undesirable. I find it undesirable if it is done purely and simply because of interest rates or other interest rates. But I'd like to make sure it's some kind of black and white image. Those previous 2016 surveys also show that there are very legitimate, good reasons for making such a collective transfer of value cross-border possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u103	These legitimate reasons have also been confirmed by several colleagues here. I spoke in style more about SME pension funds and the VVD talked a bit more about pension funds of multinationals. Those are two categories of which you could say, well, I can see why they're moving and taking one seat. But does the Minister share with me that it is undesirable for an enterprise pension fund that has 95% of its participants in the Netherlands to be located elsewhere than in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u104	A first feeling would be: I understand Mr Omtzigt's point. At the same time, even when dealing with such a bill, there may still be very legitimate reasons that I am not going to shake my sleeve to make it possible. My first feeling, however, is that I should like to address Mr Omtzigt in this respect. That is why I think it is so important that IORP II should include these three explicit criteria that DNB can test for such a cross-border transfer of value. I refer to the letter of amendment because I share Mr Omtzigt's concerns. But I've also learned from the examples I've seen. Each example has its own story, its own considerations. I think it is important to include pensioners and participants in that consideration. Hence the letter of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u105	Finally, Mr. Ommzigt. I can tell you that from now on, I'm gonna let the interruptions go in two. But you can do another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Finally. I can imagine that there may be reasons that the Minister cannot now foresee that are valid. Okay, but I see the Minister agrees with me that it is undesirable for those reasons not to exist. Is the Minister prepared to really use the emergency brake if he sees some value transfers and sees no valid reasons for himself? Is he then prepared to inform the Chamber at that time that it is not desirable to enter into consultation with DNB and see how it is appropriate to insert that emergency braking mechanism from the letter of amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u107	It is not for nothing that I included in the letter of amendment the delegation clause, where this can be put into practice. I have also informed the Chamber that I am going to monitor it, to monitor exactly what is happening in practice. We have regular contact with the supervisor. If there is reason to do so, I will inform the Chamber anyway and talk to your Chamber about how we deal with this and look at it. Against this background, the delegation clause in the letter of amendment has been incorporated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u108	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u109	Following the letter of amendment, Mr Omtzigt had a specific question about the accountability body or the stakeholder body. The letter of amendment includes approval by a two-thirds majority of participants and a two-thirds majority of pensioners. Mr Omtzigt's question was why the Minister did not opt for approval by both the accountability body and individual participants. The Directive requires cross-border transfer of value to be approved by a majority of members and beneficiaries or by their representatives. In order to give greater control to participants and pensioners, the letter of amendment states that two thirds of both parties must approve it. The directive does not allow approval to be sought from the accountability body if you have chosen the route of the participants. For the sake of completeness, however, I would like to point out that the advisory right of the accountable body that we now know in the Pension Act as well as the right of approval of the stakeholder body is maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u110	That raises a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u111	The stakeholder body therefore effectively has a right of veto if it has a right of approval, because if it says no, it will not happen. At the moment, if his advice is not followed, the accountability body can go to the Enterprise Chamber. That's what it can do here, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u112	The last thing I need to do is take a look at the backup. I have to come back to that in second place, because this is such a detailed question that I cannot answer now. I'll get back to you. Mr Van der Linde asked how the right of consent for members and beneficiaries of cross-border collective value transfers is practically implemented. In the original proposal, pension administrators are obliged to inform members and beneficiaries of the intention to transfer collective value across borders. In addition, at that time they also ask the members and beneficiaries to agree or not to accept the transfer of value. Two thirds of the reactions coming back from the participants have to agree. Two thirds of the responses of the pensioners who return must also agree, as follows from the letter of amendment. Without this consent, the transfer of value cannot continue, it has to go back to the board for a proposal or something else has to be made up. That's how it works. The precise design in practice should also be done in consultation with the supervisor, so what requirements you make about it and how you manage it in a neat way. Of course, you don't want too much administrative burden or correspondence. We just need to work that out in the future. I answered Mr Omtzigt's and Mr Van Rooijen's questions on the Aon case last week. I have dealt with, for example, how we deal with 3.5%. I have also indicated that we are based on the risk-free interest rate structure and want to stick to it, because we find it to be appropriate to the system. Mr Omtzigt has asked a lot of questions, so will often come back this evening. How are participants referred to the individual right of objection under Article 83 of the Pension Act? It shall be ensured that participants are informed in good time of the conditions attached to cross-border collective value transfer. Participants will also be informed about the possibilities of individually objecting to the transfer of accrued pension claims. This will need to be clear and clear from the information provided in the collective value transfer. For the sake of completeness, I note that the individual right of objection cannot prevent the full collective transfer of value, but only relates to individual accrued pension claims of the relevant participant or pensioner. I come straight to Mr Omtzigt's next question on Article 84 of the Pension Act in relation to liquidation in a pension administrator. Is that a way to circumvent the individual right of objection? Under Article 84 of the Pension Act, the entire assets are transferred to another pension administrator in the event of liquidation of the pension administrator. The individual right of objection is lacking in this situation simply because there is no longer a pension administrator in the liquidation where the accumulated pension claims can be left behind. In practice, a collective transfer of value in the context of liquidation also involves a desire to adjust the pension scheme, for example to harmonise the pension scheme with the pension scheme to which it is transferred, especially when it comes to merging pension schemes. I would like to emphasise that the route of liquidation cannot be used to adjust the pension scheme without the individual right to object. When adjusting a pension scheme and a resulting internal collective value transfer, the regime laid down in Article 83 of the Pension Act shall always apply. The individual right of objection therefore applies in full, but in a combination whereby the pension scheme is also adjusted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u113	A brief question on Article 83. If an individual objects, he is not part of the collective transfer. That's obvious. My question is: what will happen if it is an important representative group? You know I used to be president of an important pension dome. What if tens of thousands of people from a large pension fund, or members of that association, all say: we have objections? What do you do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u114	I have now settled this in the letter of amendment. Mr Van Rooijen's question is about a cross-border transfer, isn't it? A majority of two thirds of pensioners and participants must therefore agree. That's the letter of amendment. I think Mr Van Rooijen is convinced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u115	That's been clarified. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u116	11:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u117	You also have an interruption by Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u118	About the two thirds. Am I right that it is introduced in the letter of amendment when crossing the border, but does not apply to a collective transfer of value within the Netherlands? And can I assume that this has been thoroughly tested on how that relates to internal legislation in terms of not being able to discriminate between domestic and foreign and so on? I assume a proper legal check has been made on that, question mark.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u119	Yes. It has also been discussed with the supervisor. I'll take this back to the second term, if you don't mind. I think this is a valid double-check question. Let's see. Mr Omtzig asked: what does the Minister think about other countries being able to tax pension funds that have moved? A Member State is free to impose tax on pensioners on pension funds. Taxation is a national matter. In considering cross-border pension activities, it is obvious that pension practitioners should include this method of taxation in the assessment. I do not know whether this is entirely right to Mr Omtzigt's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u120	That's what he's gonna tell us now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u121	In normal circumstances, it is. Belgium, for example, charges a little less VAT on certain management services. We've actually questioned the Secretary of State for Finance ten times about that. But they're peanuts. Can the Secretary of State confirm that in times of crisis...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u122	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u123	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u124	I'm the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u125	We've discussed that several times with the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u126	Okay, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u127	That is what we want to do with the Minister for Social Affairs. If he wants to be invited to that committee, we can take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u128	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u129	Too bad. Then we'll talk about the DBA someplace else. But this is a crisis in which a country lacks money and is falling apart. Does the Minister agree that there is a risk that at that time this country will not only partially expropriate savings above €100,000 because the banks will fall because they cannot guarantee it, and that at the same time we will be at risk if you put your pension in Cyprus, in Greece or in a country that is in serious trouble, that part of it can also be expropriated by an additional tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u130	The last addition I understand. I'll just say, up to that last sentence, I was skeptical. I do believe that the protection of individual property is also well regulated in Europe. But what could theoretically and what we could never rule out is that... For the sake of clarity, this could also apply to the Netherlands. Even if there is a severe weather situation in the Netherlands, you can still decide to do a tax on pension assets. We have no intention of doing so, nor do we have any reason to do so. I'm just saying, just to be clear, and to prevent images from being created. But, of course, I can never completely rule out this hypothetical situation. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u131	That is clear, but it has not proved to be a hypothetical situation. We thought it was hypothetical until Cyprus was forced to do so with bank balances. So the Minister admits something very important here, namely that in stress situations taxes can be levied on your pension when it has been transferred to the jurisdiction of another country. The Minister then refers to Protocol 1 of the ECHR which states that you must not expropriate. Of course, Cyprus' legal proceedings still have to be dealt with in Strasbourg, but savers will never get right there, because the reason that Cyprus had to expropriate is that otherwise the state would go bankrupt. And if they were fully compensated, the state would still go bankrupt. You don't get it, and that means you lose part of your pension money from one day to the next, without being able to appeal to the politicians. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u132	This reasoning is going a little too fast for me. I think you really need to distinguish between savings, which are subject to a deposit guarantee scheme in many countries, and pension assets. But I'm going to improvise now, and I find that dangerous so late at night. Mr Omtzigt too, I see! Other regimes apply to that. But more generally, of course, it does apply, but that is also the case in the Netherlands: in the event of a crisis, taxation can be imposed by Member States. To establish a direct relationship with the crisis time of several years ago in Cyprus, I find, quite frankly, far-fetched in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u133	I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the 1980s under the Lubbers cabinet. At that time there was a coverage of the pension funds of 180 and those funds were therefore wealthy. There was no crisis, but Lubbers needed money and said: we're just going to bring the pension funds under corporate tax at a rate of 40%. I would like to say: not in the crisis, but certainly not in the absence of a crisis. So I'll give the Minister that warning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u135	You're well aware of that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u136	I would ask the Minister to prosecute and finish the heading 'cross-border collective value transfer'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u137	Let me think. A great deal has been said about it, and that is why, for the sake of completeness, I am addressing the question of what the Minister can do to stop relocations. It's about collective value transfer. Such a decision by a pension fund is surrounded by guarantees. A decision to transfer cross-border value abroad shall be taken at the request of the employer or pension fund. The decision to invest in future implementation abroad is an amendment to the benefit agreement which should be submitted for approval to the Supervisory Board and submitted for advice to the Hearing Body or the Stakeholder Body. The design of collective conditions must also be submitted to the works council. The Directive does not amend this procedure. The decision to include rights acquired so far abroad should also be submitted for approval to the Supervisory Board and to the Accounting Body for advice or to the Stakeholder Body for approval. This decision must then be submitted to the members and beneficiaries and a two-thirds majority of the responses must be agreed. The cross-border collective value transfer is also reviewed by De Nederlandsche Bank, in accordance with the criteria now implemented in the IORP II. Finally, the foreign supervisor also reviews the transfer of value. There is, of course, cooperation between supervisors in Europe. Moreover, in the event that the pension fund does not proceed to liquidation in the Netherlands, participants have an individual right of objection. That's Article 84 we were just talking about. In this case, only the future construction takes place abroad. I think it is a good thing that I make that explicit, because otherwise this could create confusion. Mr Omtzigt has just asked whether the accountability body or the stakeholder body can go to the Enterprise Chamber. The accounting body shall have an advisory right in the case of collective transfer of value. The Board shall motivate when it deviates from the opinion, and the accounting body may be transferred to the Business Chamber. The relevant body shall have the right of approval. In the absence of approval, the decision as it stands cannot continue. I believe that I have answered all the questions raised by Mr Smeulders on this point in the previous rounds on collective value transfer. The higher interest rate is in the same category as was requested by Mr Van Rooijen. Yeah, it's true that with a higher arithmetic rate it's more likely to be indexed. In the Netherlands, as I have also pointed out in reply to the parliamentary questions put by Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Omtzigt, we consider it prudent to convert risk-free interest rates. Other Member States are free to change their prudential framework as long as they meet the minimum requirements laid down in the European Directive. Many questions follow on from this. Mr Smeulders asked whether it was true that individual pensions remain at least the same after a collective transfer of value and therefore there is no deterioration. Indeed, the Directive requires that individual claims and rights remain at least equal after a collective transfer of value. This is, through this proposal for a directive, one-on-one implemented in Article 90a of the Pension Act. Mr Smeulders also asks why Member States actually have different prudential frameworks, different interest rates and different rules. What does it say about our review framework when neighbouring countries apply very different rules? Again, the IORP merely imposes minimum capital requirements on the Member States. Member States are free to fill them in as they see fit, as long as the minimum is met. Surrounding countries will therefore have to comply with this minimum. At the same time, as Mr Omtzigt also said in his contribution, there are considerable differences in pension systems between countries. The Netherlands has a larger funded pension system, while neighbouring countries have a larger pay-as-you-go system, i.e. a pay-as-you-go system which is paid out of the tax and which has little capital coverage. Denmark also has a funded pension. The UK has a partly funded pension. But the differences in pension systems are huge. This also leads to a different pension culture, to name but a few, between the Member States. To harmonise that is simply impossible, I think. Mr Smeulders asked another question which follows on from Mr Omtzig's question: how will the Minister keep track of whether the supervisory arbitrage will take place? And if it's gonna happen, what are we gonna do? I have just answered this question in the direction of Mr Omtzigt. It is not possible for me to keep track of the reasons for moving pensions to another Member State. The collective value transfer review process used by DNB ensures that all procedures are properly followed, and these procedures are now being strengthened. If the review criteria are met, there is no reason to prevent a collective transfer of value. At the same time, the Netherlands is not in favour of harmonizing capital requirements in Europe. That is, of course, the reverse of this debate, as Mr Smeulders rightly points out. But the Netherlands is not in favour of that. That is not the Dutch position. It is therefore not the solution to this point either. I have already answered the question on 3.5% in response to the questions put by Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Omtzit. I think that answers the specific questions on this issue. Mr Van Weyenberg raised the question of whether a distinction between cross-border collective value transfer and national collective value transfer is permitted. This question has just arisen in an interrupting debate, and I have now received an answer. This has been tested and indeed allowed. The explanatory memorandum explains why it is allowed to distinguish between national and international. The distinction has been reviewed by the Council of State and De Nederlandsche Bank and has not led to any comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u138	That concludes this heading, but I see that there are still some interruptions. First of all, Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u139	I had asked whether the Minister would like to respond to the following question: have we found, with today's letter of amendment, the agreement with two-thirds majority, a proper balance between the interests of the participants and the Netherlands as a country of residence? That's what I'm talking about. We introduced the PPI about ten years ago, a clever invention by Hans van Meerten. It was actually intended to put the Netherlands on the map as a location for international pension funds. I can imagine that this two-thirds majority will now deter multinationals from establishing their PPI in the Netherlands. I just want to know how the Minister looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u140	I wonder. Then I should start speculating a little bit about the considerations. We have a very good pension infrastructure in the Netherlands, with a lot of knowledge, legal but also financial, and well-developed investors operating around the world. We have an acquaintance in that. That is, of course, also the comparative advantage we have as the Netherlands. At the same time, there are supervisory rules which, of course, also apply to pension funds operating in the Netherlands. The complex of rules, the location and the knowledge makes us have a good locational climate. I don't think this is going to upset this balance. I don't believe that. At least I don't have any clues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u141	I was given the answer to my question that the Council of State had already reviewed it. But I asked the question specifically about what is now changing in the letter of amendment where that two-thirds limit is inserted. I don't think he's been to the Council of State. So I don't quite understand the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u142	That reply was already contained in the original explanatory statement. That's why it's already been tested. The explanatory memorandum explains why it is allowed to distinguish between national and international. That distinction has been reviewed by the Council of State and De Nederlandsche Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u143	And the Minister is convinced that now that he is adding those two thirds, I understand the purpose behind that, he is allowed to apply it to cross-border rather than national, and that he is thus absolutely absolutely absolutely still something else within the European internal market rules. We don't want to take something here that's gonna turn out to be disliked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u144	I understand the question. Our understanding is that it is indeed true and that it is also part of the original explanatory statement, in which the distinction is made, as far as we are currently looking at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u145	We received the letter of amendment this afternoon. He's pretty principled. As a result of the discussion on the Council of State, I wondered whether the Minister had also considered submitting this to the Council of State. Conversely, the Chamber may request information from the Council of State. Does the Minister still want to talk about this? Because I'm struggling a little with what's on the table at once and is pretty fundamental.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u146	I understand the question. I also understand Mr Van Weyenberg's question. I'm gonna think about it in the suspension and discuss it, and I'll get back to you in a second term. I think it is good to check this point very explicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u147	Fine. You were at the key function.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u148	When it comes to governance, the Directive has, among other things, as an important objective to boost the minimum level of the pension fund governance system. In the Netherlands, we already had a well-functioning governance system, as has recently been demonstrated again by the review of the Pension Fund Enhancement Act. The Directive and the implementing legislative proposal further anchor some of the governance aspects that were common to pension funds in practice. The most important of these is the setting up of the three key functions, namely the risk management function, actuarial function and internal audit function. Together, these key functions provide additional guarantees for a proper assessment of the risks to which pension funds are exposed, of the actuarial data used and of the conduct of controlled and impartial business operations. The requirements of these functions, such as reporting and reporting to the board and supervisor, and the requirements of reliability and fitness, I embrace as logical requirements for this sector, in terms of money from many participants and a lot of money. Mr Omtzigt specifically asks whether I agree that financial management should be abolished. I disagree. I do not think it is necessary to abolish financial management. The Pension Act contains sufficient safeguards to prevent undesirable situations. The responsibility of the policy cannot be invested by the board with a financial manager. The board must make arrangements in such a way that it is and remains in control. Financial support can help with this. The bill also introduces a risk management function, an actuarial function and an internal audit function. It thus offers additional guarantees in governance. For example, in the context of the risk management function, specific agreements can also be made with the fiduciary. Then there is Mr Omtzigt's other question: what punishment is there for not reporting wrongdoings? Firstly, the implementation of the directive ensures as much as possible that key officials report. When a key official is appointed, it should be assessed that key officials are fit and reliable for the performance of their duties. An independent critical attitude is part of this. In addition, it is arranged that at least periodic reports should be made on those findings. Key officials are also protected when reporting through a general approach provision. Secondly, DNB has a number of measures at its disposal if it appears that the key official has wrongly not reported. For example, it can be discussed in a monitoring interview and lead to a warning letter and even an indication. Also, if circumstances so warrant, DNB may decide to review or re-examine the key officer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u149	I imagine you'd give a warning in a normal omission. But what happens if there is serious actuarial messing or internal supervision fails seriously and there is serious fraud with the funds of the participants?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u150	In the case of fraud, I think you'll end up in criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u151	Whoever commits the fraud gets to go to criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u152	Shortly, Mr. Overzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u153	But at that very moment, you would need the key officials who find out, then report immediately and are punishable if they don't report. Or is a surveillance call the worst punishment you can get when hundreds of millions of people are being cheated on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u154	If you've done things wrong criminally, if you've cheated, it's just a criminal offence and you need to be prosecuted. The whole system is designed just so that if there are abuses, these key officials who are going to report in this system. Does that cover all the wrong thoughts? No, it's not. At the same time, it is important that when DNB gives a clue or in the extreme case starts rechecking whether you are suitable as a key official, that is indeed a strong stick behind the door. Then you just didn't do your job right, I'll just say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u155	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u156	I get that. You didn't do your job right. But we have here the situation that a key figure sees that actuarial figures are totally wrong or that fraud has just been committed and that he does not report it because he works in that organization, feels loyal to it and whatever. He'll be protected if he makes the call. So if he makes the call, there's nothing to worry about. But if he doesn't report it, is there another stick behind the door? Or are there just the roots?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u157	If he makes the notification, he will be protected by the directive. That is precisely the safe environment in which this kind of abuses must be reported. That's the root. If you do not perform your function properly, you have these sticks. If you deliberately cheat, you're in another quadrant. Then it's just criminal law. It is difficult to tell how the line goes exactly, in what situation criminal law becomes and when failure is a key official. But in general, the system is designed in such a way that it stimulates the reporting of abuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u158	I suggest you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u159	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u160	Your point has been made and can always be dealt with in the second term. I think you're at the fourth cup now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u161	Communications. As you probably remember, the European Commission's original proposal referred to far-reaching detailed rules in the field of pension communication. The Commission's proposal had very detailed rules on the content and design of the personal benefit statement, the Dutch Uniform Pension Statement, the UPO. In the negotiations, the Netherlands has managed to reduce the level of detail considerably. After all, the Netherlands has already laid down a careful way of communicating in the Pension Communication Act. The revised Directive lays down final rules on the minimum information to be provided at the UPO. This involves, for example, showing a bad weather and a good weather scenario for the expected pension. We have already spoken about this in the Chamber: the arrows. I'm sure you remember that. These scenarios need only be shown at the UPO in 2020. In addition, former participants will receive an annual UPO. Currently, former participants receive a UPO once a year. In the context of understanding the pension situation and the scope for action, I can only encourage these changes. Mr Van Weyenberg's question follows on from this: if you have to do this every year, doesn't that result in a lot of additional administrative burdens and high costs? This bill assumes that the former participant has the same interest in knowing what he or she has built up as an active participant in retirement. The former participant will thus also receive an annual UPO. In order to reduce the burden on pension administrators, this bill allows a pension administrator to make certain guarantees in the annual UPO available digitally on its website. Either a pension administrator actively provides a written UPO, or he makes it digitally, i.e. passively, available. The choice for the channel is up to the pension administrator. The sleeper can then download the UPO after a signal. In the context of communication and the UPO, Mr Van Kent said that the directive required more information on the UPO and asked whether this would not make the UPO too unclear and too full of information. The contestant just wants to know how much he's built up and how much he's gonna get. He asked whether it would be possible for this information to be included more clearly in the UPO than in other information and asked if I could send it for the general consultation on 5 December. The core of the UPO is and remains how much someone has built up and how much pension he will build up. That key information, which is already prominent on the current UPO, does not affect this bill. I have no reason to believe that the Pension Federation and the Insurance Association are less prominent in the UPO. The Pension Federation and the Association of Insurance Companies are in the process of adapting the UPO model for 2019. I also receive the opinion of the Financial Markets Authority. If I receive the model in time for the general consultation on 5 December, I am very willing to send it to the Chamber as an example. A final question on communication is from Mr Van der Linde: is the UPO going to include or not include pictures? This bill does not change the introduction in the Netherlands of the visualization of the optimistic, pessimistic and expected scenario, the arrows, the pictures. The bill extends the information that pension administrators should include in the UPO. However, the legislative proposal does not change the primacy of the pension sector to determine or adapt the model for the UPO. The sector retains the space it already has in order to shape the UPO model in such a way that the legally required information is as appropriate as possible to the characteristics of the recipient. That is what we are going to talk about if it is right in the AO of 5 December. You ask detailed questions, you get detailed answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u162	Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u163	As part of the communication on the UPO, I asked if the Minister would also look at cost efficiency, especially for sleepers. There are many pension funds. They should be informed annually. Can the Minister promise that he will look again at the cost-efficiency of such a major operation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u164	Mr President, I have already answered that question implicitly in reply to Mr Van Weyenberg's question. It will be informed annually, but this can also be done in a digital way, which can save costs. That was the answer to Mr Van Weyenberg's question. I forgot you asked the question, Mr. Van Rooijen. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u165	I understand. I am getting signals that there are concerns in the pension world or that this is not an excessive additional administrative burden. Digital doesn't apply to everyone either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u166	I just gave you a comprehensive answer. It is important that people are informed about their retirement. This does lead to a limited administrative burden, but there are variants to do it lighter via digital.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u167	Then Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u168	Let's talk about the pictures. My question was precisely to keep things as simple as we intended with those pictures, but I hear the Minister say it's going to be on top of it. That's where I care. We'll come back to that later, but I'm so afraid that the pension participants are drowning in the information, to say it homely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u169	Of course, communication experts need to think carefully about how you do not drown in the information and how you could offer it layered. We're really having a separate conversation in the future about how we're going to shape that. I've already presented the first contours of that six months ago or so. This is now taking place and I hope to be able to discuss it with you at the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u170	Are the bad weather scenarios the same as the pension fund is in Belgium as when it is in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u171	That seems complicated to me. In my opinion, the bad weather scenarios are based on the transfer of 45,000 economic scenarios by De Nederlandsche Bank. No, I don't think so. The implementation of these scenarios is of course based on those bad weather and good weather scenarios of the economic situation, which are passed on in the Netherlands by De Nederlandsche Bank. So, no. I'm looking at my people now, too. They're having second thoughts, too. We have to stay guilty for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u172	Maybe this will come back in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u173	I'd love to, because this is pretty essential. Suppose you transfer pensions to another country and the weather and good weather scenarios are different scenarios and you can make more returns in a weather scenario at once. That would, of course, be nonsense, because Belgium and the Netherlands would have the same coverage policy. That shouldn't be better or worse. Wouldn't that just have to follow the same upper and lower limits?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u174	The precise design of the UPO... I'll come back to this in second term before I start making things up myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u175	Fine. Did you come up with this on the last cup?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u176	Yeah, other stuff. Mr Van Weyenberg had the question of whether it is true that the legislative proposal restricts the possibilities for the regulator to disclose administrative sanctions in relation to the current situation. No, the bill doesn't limit the supervisory powers to this. On the contrary, the bill ensures that the regulator has policy freedom within this area to refrain from disclosure. The legislative proposal limits the discretion of the regulator to whether or not to disclose a decision to impose an administrative sanction. It is noted that the point is that a decision to impose an administrative sanction is made public once the decision is final. The supervisory authority may decide to refrain from disclosure only on a limited number of grounds laid down in the law. Mr Van Weyenberg has also tabled an amendment to that effect, which I shall come back to in a moment. Mr Van Weyenberg also asked about the undercover nature of the transfer of value in recent years. He asked if participants would be actively informed if there was a coverage level above 100, so that they could still transfer. Once the coverage level is sufficiently high, the value transfer is reactivated. Once this has been done, the participants will indeed be informed. Mr Smeulders had an interesting question about how much of the 1,400 billion in pension assets is invested in the Netherlands. What does the Minister expect in terms of development by the IORP? The percentage invested in the Netherlands is 12.5%. The rest, the other 87.5%, is therefore invested worldwide. Of course, that also has to do with that huge pot of pension savings that we have of the 1,400 billion. That asset management is really highly internationally oriented, because you also want to spread your risks across different sectors and activities. So I do not really see any impact of IORP II on that investment policy. I don't think there are any.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u177	I can imagine that, but I wonder if the Minister agrees with GroenLinks that it would actually be socially desirable if a larger proportion of this enormous Dutch pension capital were invested in the Netherlands. Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u178	No, I disagree. If you invest a large part of Dutch pension assets in the Netherlands, the risk is of course high that you will no longer be able to find projects that yield sufficient returns and thus reduce the indexing perspective for the participants. That is precisely the idea behind spreading wealth around the world, in sectors, in different activities: risk sharing, also to prevent pension funds from being hit extra hard by worse economic conditions, for example. But also: what are profitable projects? Because, of course, there are ambitions there Mr Van Rooijen always talks about indexing and making returns.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u179	Of course I understand that you have to spread risks, but put 87.5% away abroad, while in the Netherlands we have huge challenges, for example in the field of energy transition... Does the Minister not agree with me that it would be a good idea to at least examine whether we could invest more in the Netherlands with the same returns and whether the government could help in this by offering guarantees?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u180	Now Mr Smeulders is asking different questions. As a cabinet, of course, we also intend to set up an investment bank, especially when it comes to helping to launch risky projects. More generally, I really do not agree with Mr Smeulders. Also look at the interest rates that exist, including in the Netherlands. If you would force Dutch pension funds to invest a larger part in the Netherlands, you would actually force them to either take more risk or put their pension money into less profitable activities. That's not good for the contestants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u181	Thank you for the Minister's explanation. 12% is low, but it's high again. That's a question to the Minister... if you look at the ratio of Dutch gross national product to the whole world. Maybe we'd only be at 4%. So we already invest relatively much in the Netherlands when you look at the relationship between national product and world product.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u182	Sure. So there's already a big risk weighting of the Netherlands in there. Yeah, once. Mr Smeulders had asked another question about ESG factors, Environmental, Social and Governance, in investment policy. How is this information reviewed? The pension funds must account for their ESG policies in their annual report. The annual report shall be audited by the auditor. They should also be accountable to the Supervisory Board, the Auditor or the Stakeholder Body through the annual report. Mr Smeulders asks: what is the Minister's view that environmental, climate, human rights and social relations should not be taken into account and that legislation should still be introduced in this area? Mr Van Weyenberg has announced an initiative law. It is up to pension funds to invest the pension money of members and beneficiaries. They should take into account the interests of all stakeholders. It is also up to stakeholders to identify the extent to which investments take environmental, climate, human rights and social relations into account. As Mr van der Linde also asked, there is a proposal from the European Commission to delegate powers to the Commission in relation to the ESG policy of pension funds in this area. The Minister for Finance, who sent a BNC sheet to your committee, has recently informed the Chamber that the cabinet is against delegated powers of the European Commission on this point. However, the sector is of course looking into whether agreements can be reached by means of an agreement on the use of the sector in the manner in which they can take account of the environment, climate, human rights and social relations in their investment policies. Once again, Mr Van Weyenberg has announced an initiative law. We'll talk about that later. With this I have also answered Van der Linde when it comes to the delegated provisions that are there and the position of the Netherlands in them. Mr Van der Linde and Mr Van Rooijen asked: can the Minister address the administrative burden of additional provisions of the IORP Directive? The aim of the negotiations was to ensure that the directive was as closely as possible in line with Dutch practice. This is now reflected in the implementation proposal. Efforts have been made to keep the additional administrative burden as low as possible. As far as the key functions are concerned, it is also intended to regulate this in such a way that it is consistent with the existing practice of pension practitioners as far as possible. The legislative proposal has also been submitted to the Advisory Committee on Control Pressure, the ATR. That has concluded that no less burdensome alternatives are possible. This does not mean that there are no administrative burdens, which are certainly there, but there are no less burdensome activities. The last question in my set is from Mr Van Rooijen. Is it true that the future of the system, including the AOW age, will be discussed in the forthcoming Council of Ministers? We have the policy that, if agenda items are leaked from the Council of Ministers, the item will be taken off the agenda. In any case, I cannot make any announcement as to what is on the agenda of the Council of Ministers. I just got an answer about the UPO before or after moving. Maybe it's good to take that with you. Let's think about it. The Dutch pension scheme remains subject to the Dutch statutory information requirements under the Pension Act and the Compulsory Occupational Pension Scheme Act, taking into account the amendments resulting from the Directive. In the case of a benefit agreement, a participant will therefore continue to see, even after the entry into force of this bill, how much pension entitlement he or she has accumulated but not the capital accumulated for that purpose. The pension administrator will show the pension to be reached in three scenarios, calculated on the basis of a uniform calculation methodology (URM). These calculations include elements such as the possibility of indexing or shortening. The calculation method and scenarios used apply to Dutch pension schemes regardless of where the pension scheme is implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u183	This raises a question from Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u184	That's what I was afraid of. This was entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u185	This is a satisfactory answer in itself, but it clashes with an earlier answer. Here the Minister says: we all do it according to Dutch standards. So that pension fund that moves from the Netherlands to Belgium, has 11% additional coverage and can index in one go, must say in the scenarios that there is no indexing it is, after all, by Dutch standards with the Dutch coverage rate..... but in practice may communicate the coverage rate by Belgian standards. And it's a whole lot higher at once. Then you might think that there will be indexing and then there will be indexing. That's what's happening! Here we are with the core of the problem. This is the mixing of Belgian financial supervision with Dutch labour supervision. There comes a UPO that no one understands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u186	I understand Mr Omtzig's question very well. What the European Commission has tried to do in its proposal for a directive and with the communication requirements is to inform participants. Now it may be that a Dutch pension scheme, to which our legislation relates, is being implemented elsewhere. I see Mr Omtzig's point that it wrings. At the same time, it is also good that the participants are informed. This is also a balance in this world, which is international, in which people also work across borders and can also work in a foreign company. It is tried to provide as transparent as possible insight into what you are entitled to, what you have built up and what the expectations are. That's the purpose of communication. There are a lot of hooks and eyes to that when it comes to expected retirement benefits over 30 years. Mr Omtzigt also knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u187	Last part of the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u188	We are coming to a very core internal conflict in how we are going to agree on it now. Because you're going to move your pension from the Netherlands to Belgium. Then you can see that your coverage rate is rising very fast, but the scenarios still have to be based on the Dutch coverage rate. So you get scenarios of "I don't index" and at the same time you index in practice. You can't explain that to the contestant, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u189	I understand Mr Omtzigt's point. I really understand the point. At the same time, in the current UPO we have in the Netherlands, there are a lot of uncertainties, also in the expected scenario. Do you keep your job in this neighborhood? The communication obligations we impose are to give all Dutch participants a sense of and insight into this system. At the same time, I also see the point that there can be very complicated differences if there are other prudential rules. I recognize that. I can see that. We can't completely fix that either. You can't always be against that either. There are also legitimate reasons for doing this. What has been tried is to find a balance in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u190	Thank you. Did you complete the answer to the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u191	Yes. I would like to finish the amendments, if you will allow me. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 12, members Omtzitzt and Bruins: the UPO should always include the coverage rate according to Dutch standard; the UPO also contains the provision "your pension is supervised by the supervisor X, the pension is housed in country Y and the parliament there may decide to levy tax during the build-up phase"; in this way it is clear whether or not the fund is located in the Netherlands. I must advise against this amendment. The amendment proposes to add information to the UPO, namely the level of coverage according to the Dutch calculation, the country in which the pension is based and the supervisory authority in charge. The Directive does not prescribe this additional periodic information. The UPO gets even further away from the actual goal, namely to provide data on the construction. The question is also what the recipient can do with this information. In the event that the pension is paid in another Member State, the transfer has already taken place at the time of dispatch of the UPO. Practically also, the Dutch coverage rate does not actually exist anymore. So what information do you add? I particularly think it is important for a participant to receive information if it matters and the participant has an action perspective. The letter of amendment I tabled this afternoon gives further consideration to this. Add even more information to the UPO which I still have the impression the participant can't do anything with, I advise against.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u192	You can abolish the UPO if you are looking for an action perspective, because the average participant is obliged to participate in the pension fund and has no action perspective except to resign from the ABP or PFZW scheme. The UPO is therefore not there for the perspective of action, but is simply there to indicate how many pension rights have been built up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u193	Mr President, Mr Omtzigt is talking about a different perspective of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u194	No, Mr Omtzigt asks a question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u195	So there's more on the UPO that doesn't offer an immediate perspective of action. Why would you not want to inform a participant, also in view of the previous discussion, about who the supervisor is and where to report if there is a problem? Why shouldn't that be made clear to the participant?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u196	I think there is confusion about the concept of a perspective of action. I mean action perspective in the next sentence. Someone sees the build-up of his pension, knows what he expects and wonders: should I start saving up, should I think about another house because of my income? That's the perspective of action I meant. Not in the sense of leaving my pension fund. Because that is not possible in many cases. I wonder what you can do with the addition of this information, regardless of the fact that it is indeed not in line with the directive. At the same time, you can check with your pension fund where it is located and under which supervisor it is covered. But to put that on the UPO, I honestly do not see the added value of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u197	Then there is the next amendment, in part No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u198	This is the amendment tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Bruins on cross-border collective value transfer, which is only possible in compliance with Article 132 of the Pension Act. It concerns the security measure, namely that the 97,5% nominal security has to be met. The explanatory statement to the amendment states that the security measure must always be met in the case of a transfer of domestic value. This is not a correct assumption. That is not the case, not even in domestic value transfers. In practice, pension funds currently often lack the required own funds under Article 132 of the Pension Act. The coverage rate is often lower than in Article 132. In the national context, the supervisor does not see it as an objection to a collective value transfer if both pension funds have a similar level of coverage. In that case, the future perspective, the security measure, does not change or hardly changes for the participant, as the receiving pension fund must meet the same requirements of the Pension Act. This amendment requires that cross-border collective value transfer can only take place in the presence of the required own funds. However, it is not possible to say in advance whether the recipient pension provider will also seek to achieve the required own funds by similar standards. Indeed, the level of own funds required is a national standard. I would like to say that the transfer of a minimum required own funds does not guarantee that the future perspective for the participant will remain the same. This depends on the prudential framework of the Member State concerned and the standards used and resulting from it. Compared to the requirements of collective value transfer within the Netherlands, this is an unnecessarily high requirement, which does not add anything directly to the future perspective for participants. That is why I must advise against this amendment. At the same time, I would like to stress once again, also in the direction of Mr Omtzigt, that I believe that through the guarantee, through the letter of amendment and through the monitoring and delegation clause, we have sufficient tools and tools to monitor this development. I find this extra lock on the door, which also does not apply to Dutch pension funds, unnecessarily burdensome. That is why I do not recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u199	Dutch pension funds must comply with those 97.5% from the law. I refer to the article in which that is stated. You can't transfer below 100%. And if you're above 100%, you have to meet that 97.5%. There is therefore no difference between domestic and foreign value transfers. In the case of domestic value transfer, this is not im Frage. I'm only adding it to the foreign value transfer. Why would that be a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u200	The minimum own funds required under Article 132 of the Pension Act is, I say, 120%. That is the coverage rate according to Article 132. A lot of pension funds are not at 120%. But if there are now value transfers in the Netherlands, they are allowed if necessary for example for the merger of pension funds, provided that the coverage rate is about the same and that no weird things happen. If you would not allow that for Dutch pension funds, but that lock on the door allows for transfer of value abroad if there are good reasons, then the point that Mr Omtzigt wants to address and with which I agree is: how do you keep a lock on the door to prevent cross-border transfers due to supervisory arbitrage arguments? My argument is that with the requirements of IORP II and with the additional requirements of this afternoon's letter of amendment, we have the buttons and instruments for that and the supervisor has the instruments for that. This amendment adds another reality, which is also difficult to implement for the supervisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u201	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u202	Thank you for that answer. The fact that an element is added to it was exactly what we intended. That it's not always easy, I don't mind. We disagree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u203	Let me see if I understand the judgment. Do I hear the minister say that the supervisor says he wasn't helped with this? That's one. And then two. The Minister says that this is a bit of a different type of system and with the letter of amendment I have a little more confidence in it. But apart from that, I hear him say: I think it makes an unnecessary demand. Are we going to come back to the distinction between domestic and foreign, and are we going to gnaw at European rules with this? Or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u204	The first answer is yes. Of course, we asked De Nederlandsche Bank: can you do something with this in practice? And the answer was no, because we wouldn't know how to test this. The second is precisely the question that remains open for the second term following Mr Van Weyenberg's previous interruption, about the distinction with the two-thirds majority question. I'll get back to that in my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u205	Two more amendments to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u206	I therefore think that I would advise against this amendment, because it is not necessary on top of all the sticks and guarantees that we have now included in the legislative proposal. I come to Mr Van Kent's amendment to item No. 14 on the WNT. The WNT does not apply to pension funds or to asset managers. However, sector-specific regulations apply. Pension funds are obliged to conduct a controlled remuneration policy, which does not encourage the taking of unacceptable risks. Pension funds are also set up by employees and employers. I thought that was just said by Mr Van der Linden. It is up to them to agree on the management of the pension fund. This includes remuneration policy. Under the IORP II Directive, pension funds should ensure that their remuneration policy also applies to parties to which they are outsourcing, unless the remuneration policy as invested in the Financial Supervision Act already applies. The remuneration policy of the Financial Supervision Act applies to asset managers anyway. I therefore advise against this amendment. I really think this is the responsibility of pension fund management.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u207	In response to many questions, I actually hear the Minister reading out what the laws and rules are like at the moment. You can assume that in preparation for this amendment I have looked at how the laws and rules were put together. I have also seen that the Top Income Standards Act in the past did not apply to many things that it does now apply to. I refer, for example, to health insurers and housing corporations. My party already proposed, in 2006, for example, to include the carers and health insurance companies in the WNT. You were against it and the VVD was always against any restriction of top salaries. It is about what we as politicians want, what we consider politically desirable here. Do we think it is desirable for people in the pension sector to go home with nearly six tonnes a year, of the pension funds of pensioners and workers who have not been indexed for years? Does this Minister think that this is desirable? And if the answer is no, doesn't the Minister think it's up to politics to set boundaries there, because apparently they themselves can't set these limits?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u208	No, there's a code for remuneration policy. This is for the directors of the pension funds. I'll leave it there, too. I do not intend to apply this code to pension funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u209	In 2006...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u210	I think you got your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u211	No, I've heard again how the law works now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u212	I also want...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u213	However, in 2006 the SP also proposed to extend the norming Act to top incomes, to include more among them. Now I make the same proposal for pension funds. This minister is merely telling us what the law is like and is not prepared to comment on the fact that there are simply pockets being filled in the pension sector. So he's not willing to take that step with the SP either. However, I promise you that sooner or later the social outrages we have received a lot of reactions to our proposal D66 and will again convince this minister that this step must be taken for the pension sector. Because this is really out of proportion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u214	Thank you. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u215	That wasn't a question. Finally, I come to Mr Van Weyenberg's amendment to item No. 15 on disclosure of administrative fines. The amendment provides that disclosure of an administrative fine may be withheld only if disclosure of the decision would jeopardise the stability of the financial market. The amendment limits the discretion of the supervisor not to disclose a decision to impose an administrative fine. That is why the draft law was not adopted. However, the amendment does not affect the protection of participants and therefore fits within the framework of the Directive. I leave the amendment to the House's discretion. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my first term. Sorry for the many techniques in the questions asked by the Chamber. That's what you get for a technical implementation of a bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u216	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the first term. I would like to suggest to Members whether we should stop now. Then we will also give the Minister the opportunity to answer any outstanding questions in writing and we can schedule the second deadline as soon as possible. I'll leave it to you. I'll take a look around... Yeah, I'm seeing consenting nodding. Then we conclude in this way. That brings us to the end...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u217	Mr President, may I ask...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u218	Just for a second. I still see Mr Van der Linde. Did you wish to make another comment on my proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u219	Mr. President, you probably counted the noses. I think it's okay to keep going, because I think it's pretty quick. But I'm gonna take a look at the colleagues. Unless people are about to fall over...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u220	Then I'd like everyone to speak up. This was my proposal. I'd like to hear your comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u221	Mr President, it will not be up to me; you understand that. But there is a major letter of amendment and there are four amendments. On two of these amendments, the Minister has given a detailed technical explanation, which I would like to read out in the stenogram. I am neither prepared nor able to respond to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u222	Thank you. That's clear. Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u223	Mr President, I am flexible, but I understand that there are Members who would like to keep the second term at another time, and that seems to me to be something we have to honour.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u224	Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u225	If the quality of the legislation is discussed, we can only respect it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u226	Fine, so we conclude that at a later date, but as soon as possible, the second term is scheduled. I will give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u227	My question was indeed to do so as soon as possible, because of course we have a deadline for implementation, namely 19 January 2019. I'll have it scheduled for the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u228	Mr Omtzig briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u229	I support the Minister in "as soon as possible." There are a number of things that are still somewhat waiting for an answer. If those answers can be given in writing, the second deadline can also be done fairly quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u230	For the sake of completeness, I would like to ask what matters this concerns. I think it's okay to write that down, because then we can just take it with us. Then we didn't...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u231	I think part of us can just look through the stenogram.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u232	It's in the stenogram. What should be the minimum response to that two-thirds majority? It is also about the punishment for the key figures, the bad weather scenario at UPO and perhaps even some of its effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u233	Perhaps there were also questions about the Council of State. It's all in the stenogram. I'm assuming they'll be able to look through that in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-26-tweedekamer-10.u234	I thank the Minister. I thank the spokesmen. I would like to thank the staff and all those who are still interested in this at this late hour.
