ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the legislative proposal Rules relating to the provision of trust services and their supervision, i.e. the Supervisory Trust Offices Act 2018, Room 34910.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u2	A warm word of welcome to the Minister of Finance. Thank you for joining us. We have five speakers from the Chamber. The first is Mrs Leijten, who will speak to us for no less than twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u3	Maybe even longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u4	Oh, maybe even longer. Well, let's get this over with. You have the floor, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. On 10 April, the whole world woke up with the big stories about tax avoidance and tax evasion. An international group of journalists had secretly plundered a huge bulk of data from law firm Mossack Fonseca. There was news about fraud at FIFA, government leaders and corruption, financing of war and crime. There was news about how raw materials in countries in Africa are transported to the West via constructions, without paying any tax. It was about money laundering, theft, not paying taxes by the richest of the world. Almost no country was spared. We've seen front-page news all over the place. Government leaders resigned. A lot of investigations followed. To this day we hear news about this big data leak. For example, we hear news about the office itself, Mossack Fonseca in Panama. They had no idea for whom they actually managed money through all kinds of corporate structures. ING helped Russian oligarchs and did not investigate who they had in front of them and whether the money had a good origin. ING recognises debt for U.S. branches that for years facilitated Mexican gangs with criminal money laundering. The Rabobank has bought off an investigation in the US in order not to bring to justice the lack of oversight of wrong money and wrong persons and their facilitation. Today there was news that ABN AMRO did not do enough research and facilitated the laundering of criminal money. The news doesn't stop, and it's a good thing it does. The world should be very grateful to the journalists who are biting themselves into this and trying to figure it all out. They bring to light what must consciously remain secret. They make public what daylight is not allowed to see. But they do that with big risks. In Malta, investigative journalist Daphne Caruana Galizia died last October by a car bomb. She investigated corruption within the government and the financial world in Malta. And they didn't like it. The investigation into this murder is stuck. Investigative journalists, including her sons, continue her work, honor her in it, and point out to us, the world, that the murder may be decreed close to power and that the investigation into the murder may not be done as well as you wish. What is the Dutch commitment to bringing this investigation to a successful conclusion and to continue to urge the Maltese Government to cleanse justice, police and politics from the corruption described by the journalist? The Slovak journalist Ján Kuciak and his girlfriend were also murdered, cold-blooded, because this man wrote about the corruption and the mafia, who went hand in hand with the prime minister in his country. If you come to power, you risk it. You get the money from power, you run even more risk. Our country flows EUR 4,245 billion a year. €4,245 billion, tax-free. Of this, certainly EUR 3420 billion will never end up in the real economy. It comes in and it goes out again, through special financial institutions, also called letterbox companies. It goes through countries or organizations that are always looking for as little tax as possible, paying as favorably as possible your money stables and that especially as anonymously as possible. Of this money, 1.342 billion is managed by the trust sector in the Netherlands. These are about 200 offices that provide an address to 20,000 target companies and arrange other formalities for them. These companies are empty. As in the case of the special financial institutions, almost 90% of them do not work at all. EUR 1,342 billion and almost 90% of that money is not working. Today it is about the Netherlands tax haven, whether we facilitate this or not, whether we provide supervision or not, or we provide legal boundaries for a sector that knows no morale, other than the law. This bill is for the examination of the final report of the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Fiscal Constructions. It'll be discussed after the summer. The committee discusses several issues, including the trust sector. They have heard De Nederlandsche Bank, which made proposals on the design of the bill we are discussing today. Actually, that's uncomfortable, I say to the Minister. Wouldn't it be a good idea to hold the vote on this bill until we have discussed it? Would that be a problem for the Minister? We have known for 11 years, actually from the start of the supervision of the trust sector in 2004, that is to say, for some time now, that there is hardly any self-regulation and that this is actually slipping through the hands of the regulators. I ask the Minister how problematic it would be if there were two more months waiting for this bill to be passed. It may well be that the debate on the interrogation committee's report leads to other choices, including in this legislative proposal. In my opinion, a whole new legislative process would be much more difficult than just holding up the law for a while. I'd like to hear what the Minister thinks about that. That is why I have requested so much speaking time. It is also the reason why I have four further amendments to this bill and it is also the reason why I am considering a motion on six points, unless the Minister says: that is not necessary, I am going to deal with it. Well, then, of course, we don't. The avoidance industry, that's what we're talking about today. I told you, 200 companies, called trust offices, house 20,000 companies, target companies. We are talking about letterbox companies, which can exist because the trust sector offers a location for this. That's an empty location. There is often a house plant, because according to the Tax Administration there must be "real presence of a living organism." Well, then you put a houseplant in the office and it's settled. That required mailboxes. That's why they're now called "letterbox companies." You can also call them "bedroom planting offices." You see every time: when you make a demand on how it should look, they know how to arrange it. They make use of our favourable, competitive fiscal environment, as the cabinet calls it; of the tax haven of the Netherlands, as people call it. As spokesman for Finance in the last year and a half and as a committee member of the interrogation committee, I have raised the question of what specific legitimate objectives there are actually to use a trust office for your target company. Can the Minister give me three, two, a reason why you would use a trust office for anything other than letting that money through? I always hear it's about real companies, but I don't see them. The indication that we are dealing here with a sector that is ill to the bone comes from the Panama Papers. This included a third of the Dutch trust offices. It was about structures being set up and in which they are a link in international holding companies and financing or royalty structures where no or less tax is paid or done or the person for whom the money is or where the money comes from is not who he is. Anonymize. It is not for nothing that the staff of the Tax Administration indicated to the same interrogation committee that if they see a trust or a trust office in an international construction, this is for them a red flag and they will look extra. Trust offices, the minister writes, perform a gatekeeper function for the financial system. I quote him: it is often difficult for trust offices to oversee the entire structure of the network of the international companies involved. It is also common for a trust office to have its own doubts about the natural person or persons for whom the trust service is ultimately provided or about the ultimate origin or purpose of the money flows. I think that's where we're at. De Nederlandsche Bank's investigation showed that a large part of the offices do not comply adequately with the law and that the integrity risks examined are not adequately covered. The sector has no self-regulatory capacity, was said to the parliamentary interrogation committee. However, she has a gatekeeper function. It has to assess whether the persons for whom the money is intended and the location where the money comes from or goes, do not lead to the financing of terrorism, war, crime or simply the extraction of raw materials from Africa. We facilitate that. That's kind of nice. Today we are discussing a law that should impose rules on this sector. A sector that De Nederlandsche Bank says has no self-regulatory assets. A sector that doesn't perform the gatekeeper function. Then I ask the Minister: are we doing enough today? What does a trust office do? I'm just gonna tell you. A design has been made for a company construction with the most favourable tax outcome possible. That building plan is made by a tax advisor and the trust office is going to carry out that building plan. It subscribes to the Chamber of Commerce, opens bank accounts for the person, and can therefore conceal who is behind them. In an earlier debate, we asked who is the final beneficiary when it comes to other legislation that is coming. That can't be a trust office. The Minister initially intended to do so. This has been corrected here in the Chamber by a motion of opposition and coalition, because we have seen from the parliamentary interrogation committee that you have to make legal demands, otherwise the sector will always find holes to do something else. So the trust office is used to anonymize. It carries out all these actions, subscribes to the Chamber of Commerce, has the official address for its establishment, offers an office with a chamber plant, provides official directors and provides the reporting required for the Chamber of Commerce. They have to meet a few times a year and stuff like that. The Chamber of Commerce, which thus registers which companies and target companies we all have in our country, is simply not in order, according to the parliamentary interrogation committee. I still see us sitting and asking such a gentleman whether Mrs Oomen-Ruijten they were generally men, but also a few Mrs Oomen-Ruijten who did that kind of work: gosh, tell me, how can you run 67 companies? And then someone like that said, "No, no, no, there's a lot more." With the public information from the Chamber of Commerce, we never really had the information we needed. How are we gonna fix this? That is my first question to the Minister. The bill states that you need a license to work as a trust service. You can avoid it by cutting up the different things you can offer. A good piece in the Green, no, appeared in Trouw about that. The Minister responded yesterday. He said he closed the hole. But what conclusion does he really draw from the fact that, once a legislative proposal is consulted and there are stricter rules, as far as I am concerned, a sector will not be strict enough; that conclusion will not surprise you on its own, even before there is a law at all, to come up with all kinds of routes to escape? It's called shadow trust offices. The tax advice practice says: yes, if it is so well checked who is exactly the interested party and where the money comes from for which it is intended, we no longer need to put trust services in the construction. What does that actually say about tax advisory practice? The minister says, "I've taken care of that." That's good. But is it actually legally forbidden to offer trust services if you don't have a license? 'Cause you're gonna need a permit. A permit may also be revoked, and that is good. The permit can be revoked more quickly soon. That's good, too. It is logical that the supervisor has that in his toolbox, in his supervision, but is there now also a criminal journey possible if someone does so? I think it's very good that we discuss this very carefully here. One of the directors of De Nederlandsche Bank, Mr Elderson, said it very nicely to the sector itself: what if an attack is being carried out here and it turns out that the financing of the people who do so has gone through your office? With that, he wanted to wake them up in the sense that you need to know who your customers are. We know, of course, that this is already happening. We can already see that the funding, but also the supply of arms to the various terrorist groups, is running quietly through the Netherlands. We know that the Zuidas is a very nice place to stay for criminally obtained money from Russian and Ukrainian oligarchs. How many parliamentary questions have I not been able to put about this in a year and a half? The Minister likes to assume the integrity of the sector. Those are the words he used yesterday in the letter he sent in response to the shadow trust offices, which De Nederlandsche Bank says they have not shown any self-regulating assets in recent years. They didn't do better thanks to all kinds of meetings and via newsletters. How can the Minister in this legislative proposal assume the integrity and self-regulatory capacity of the sector? I have learned that a sector is not limited by morality, by something that may exist in human traffic: 'you do not'. They are limited by laws. If it's not in the law that something isn't allowed, then it's allowed, while it's morally reprehensible what you do. I think we should keep that in mind when we discuss this law. Knowing who you're serving is extremely important for a trust office. I discussed earlier that, with a motion in the Chamber, we said that the ultimate interested party of money should not be a trust office. That must always be a person who actually does. But in this case the knot is not cut, there is again no going through. If you do not know who is behind a sum of money or a company or a target company and do not know where the money comes from, you should really draw a red line and say: do we not provide services? That would be good for ABN, for ING, for Rabobank, but that would also be good for the trust sector. Now the bill states that trust offices should know with the utmost certainty who is ultimately interested. Now, for a sector that is limited only by laws, have you of course explained a red carpet when you use the words "as much certainty as possible" because what is "as much certainty as possible"? I see my colleague Jan Paternotte sitting there. I blinked to him twice. I may have been able to wink, too. I did it with as much certainty as possible, but maybe he didn't see it. Where are the limits in this respect? Must we have written six letters? Should we have checked eight passports? Of course, that's always gonna be a problem. That is why I have prepared an amendment on the basis of which it is simply said: if you do not know who is behind the money, or if you do not know where the money comes from or go, you do not provide services. Period. I propose that, before we bring the law into force, we describe properly the internal employee who supervises compliance with laws and regulations in the organisation. This employee is called the compliance officer again such a beautiful term; I know that the chairman loves such words but it is just an employee who oversees the laws and rules that a trust office has to comply with. Apparently, it takes a person within the organization. This was also the advice of De Nederlandsche Bank. But wouldn't it be good to think about the possibilities of investing this function externally? For example, if you don't make it in an office, or if the person who does it suddenly falls away, after which the vacancy cannot be filled out, or if a perverse structure may have arisen within an organisation. In such cases, we could give De Nederlandsche Bank an designation power. The monitoring of compliance is now only completed by someone from outside who is appointed by us. We have also heard that this position is often filled by an intern or a junior employee, who does not have access to the boardroom. Therefore, if he or she identifies something that cannot be violated, rules and laws are violated, there is a risk that this will be noticed, but not seen by the summit. That is why my question is how we can do this properly. If the Minister's answer is that he does not see anything in it, I will table a motion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u6	One of the elements of the opinions of the Panama Papers Committee was to invest supervision mainly internally. Now Mrs Leijten says that she is still considering investing it externally. Following the advice of De Nederlandsche Bank to invest the supervision internally, can she give any further explanation as to why she thinks it would be better to look at an external possibility? I don't want to say that I'm necessarily against that, but I'd like to understand the logic a little bit better. After all, DNB is very critical of the external investment of supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u7	The moment you take care of it internally, you have to think internally about the positioning of supervision. Where do you do that and do it in a good way? I was just asking the Minister what he thinks about this. Should we not just make it clear, before the legislative proposal enters into force, that it is someone who sits at the board table, so to speak, who at least has access to the board table, with the guarantee that he will be protected from intimidation and the like? We also see that it is often a junior function. I also know people who are a compliance officer and who report to me with the announcement: I see everything, but I can't get the door open. Then you've arranged it internally, but then you can't do anything. I would like to think that, for example, if someone cannot be replaced quickly, we can call on De Nederlandsche Bank, who will then see who can do that for us. Or that De Nederlandsche Bank can say: at this trust office they do their best, but they didn't really set it up properly, so we put someone there who can get that going. That's pretty much how I see it. I understand very well that they want to do it internally, because they want to bring culture into an organisation. I have quite a hard mind in that, by the way, if I analyse that sector with its self-regulatory capacity a little bit. I'll draw a parallel with the care. You have health care institutions that do that very well with quality staff and complaints officers, where there is nothing going on. But you also have institutions where that doesn't go well. Then the inspection can in fact do nothing, because then it is an internal task. That is why I am putting this point here. But first internally, I think that's a good one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u8	Okay, first internal. An important element is therefore...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u9	But there is now a ban on external. That's why I'm saying it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u10	Yeah, yeah. But then my question may not have been entirely clear. I'm going to see if I understand Mrs Leijten correctly. Does this mean that it would be possible for more demands to be made on this internal function, because you think it is very important for culture to change internally? Or is that not enough for Mrs Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u11	I think you should make demands on the positioning in the office. Actually, that's what I'm suggesting. Let's think about that. Whether you should put all that into a law, I'm a little hesitant about that. You might be able to arrange that in a different way. This first step is already a major step for the sector. You see how they protest, about the whole bill, by the way, which I find very funny. Do you have to lay it all down by law? At first, I'd say no. But knowing that the self-regulatory character is not that great, I wouldn't want to rule it out. In the final interrogation of the parliamentary interrogation committee we spoke with DNB. We talked about the lessons they learned from monitoring the sector itself. There were eight recommendations, and I'm just passing by. The first is to ban structures which are vulnerable to abuse or which encourage anonymisation. Various structures are then mentioned, and that is all a lot of jargon, Mr President, so I will spare you that. But it came down to the definition of boundaries "This is not allowed" for a sector that only knows its limits by law. However, the Minister is not doing this, and I think that is a mistake. I have an amendment in preparation in which we are going to do so. I understand you don't put a list in the law, but then you settle it in lower regulation, and that's what we call a general measure of governance. You just say: we know that these structures are used for money laundering, are very vulnerable or the people it's going to cover up, and so we put these structures in an AMvB. With such a general measure of governance, you can do so very quickly. In a few months, it could be settled. The amendment will come to the Chamber in the course of this debate. The second opinion concerned the tightening up of the compliance officer. I just talked about that, and this is what the Minister is taking over. As far as I'm concerned, the positioning may be firmer, but we've already talked about that. The third recommendation was: prohibit tax advice from a trust office. The Minister doesn't do that. Now a trust office may not facilitate a target company to the same person and give tax advice. But that border is a little fluid. 'Cause what if a client you give tax advice to comes in two years from now for a trust? Or what if you give a target company to person x, and it goes away from you, and you're going to write a tax advice for it? You shouldn't let this go hand in hand. I have made an amendment to make sure that this is not possible. You either have a trust office or you have a tax advisory office, but not both. That is the risk of the sector. Opinion four concerned the possibility of withdrawing a licence in the event of a one-off detection of a crime or infringement, whereby DNB would be given more tools to do something. That's settled, as far as I can tell. Five concerned the sharing of information between trust offices. For example, if customers quit and you know that these customers are bad, let your successor or colleague know. This advice was passed on to the Minister for Justice and Security. We are also going to talk to him about the interrogation committee and we will certainly discuss it. The sixth opinion was to set up a supervisory body at a trust office. The Minister won't take over. It would cause too much trouble for the small offices. In itself, I understand that, but shouldn't you arrange for a supervisor, who asks for a supervisory body, to gain more power himself? Because the supervisor now has 12 full-time employees for a sector of 1,300 billion. And we know that this sector has no self-regulatory capacity. And then the supervisor asks for supervisory bodies. That's actually a little grotesque or maybe ridicul. But if you don't take over, shouldn't you arrange for you to strengthen the supervisor? I'd like a response. The seventh opinion was: make sure that trust firms receive an audit report. Well, a care facility, a pool, a municipality, a pop stage, the House of Representatives, everyone needs an audit report, but trust offices don't. However, the Minister is not taking over. I don't understand any of that. So I have an amendment on this in preparation. Then I am in the eighth opinion: make sure that the norm of social benevolence is applicable to those who design the construction, those who deliver the customers to the trust offices: lawyers, notaries, tax advisors. The Council of State has recommended that a better explanation be given of what that means in social terms. Here too, we know that it is a sector that is limited only by a hard legal limit. If the Minister and I are going to talk for an hour about what we mean by social bespokeness, then I think we have a very good conversation, but we can talk in a very bright way. Maybe it won't, but it's possible. I don't think that's convenient. I'll take a look. I've already talked about a lot. I still have a lot of lyrics, but I don't have to say everything. The surveillance. I would actually like to know if it is possible that we double the surveillance. We now have 12 full-time employees. Why don't we make it 24? What restrictions does the Minister see in this regard? What space does the Minister see in that? It would be a good thing that not 17 of the 200 offices are visited in a year, but that they are just at risk of getting at least three regular visits in a year or two. How many people do you need for that, anyway? I read about Mr Blaustein in the NRC on 15 June. He's not here. I know you can't say names, but it was like this in the paper. He had a trust office, lost his license, but since there's no time limit in the law when he loses a license, he can continue to provide his trust services for a very long time. Can we take care of that, too? That's what I'm asking the Minister. We have a bill in front of us now. Can he arrange that? Do we have to amend that? I'd like that. With a bill, you can fix everything. The real problem is not the trust sector, but the tax hub that is the Netherlands. As long as the Minister does not have an opinion on what is a desirable size of the sector, that is a sign on the wall. As long as the Minister has no opinion as to whether 4,000 billion or 5,000 billion is desirable or undesirable by the Netherlands, including for tax avoidance, tax evasion in the world, that is a sign on the wall. This legislative proposal is really putting in place good things, but it is still based on the idea that the sector can regulate itself, while one of the observations of the parliamentary interrogation committee is the fact that it has not drawn conclusions that this sector is not limited by 'take care of that for a moment', but only by a law. It's like putting a tile straight, when the whole roof needs to be replaced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u12	Thank you. Then there is Mr Nijboer from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Leijten already went into it. As a parliament, we have for the first time set up an interrogation committee which was actually examining the letterbox companies in the Netherlands. We have not yet had the debate on this in the Chamber, partly because of the elections. We wanted a missionary cabinet. We also want half the cabinet there, because it affects almost every ruler. That is rather uncomfortable, because there are quite fundamental questions that need to be addressed. This bill regulates part of it, but we have identified a number of major problems in our paper reality report. A: The Netherlands is a tax hub in Europe. There's a lot of billions going through it. Many letterbox companies are involved in this too. B. It all seems to be good on paper, but in reality a lot is lacking. There is too poor internal supervision and too poor external supervision, and self-regulation does not work. C. We also run major integrity risks, not only from tax avoidance, but also from money laundering, fraud and even from terrorist financing if you do not have that in your hands. Finally, the morale of the sector will not provide the solution. It really has to come from legislation and from public intervention. The Minister's bill, which has been under consultation for a long time and which has been under work for years, improves the trust sector legislation in the Netherlands on a number of points; that is as clear as a whistle as the PvdA Group. In this respect, therefore, that direction deserves support. But there are two fundamental questions. That is why I did not think that Mrs Leijten's proposal was so crazy that, if possible, we should have a fundamental debate here before we actually vote on it. There are two bigger questions. What exactly is this sector to do? And should you even want to have it? That was also the final question that the interrogation committee asked the supervisors: what is the social benefit of people who are directors on paper, but do not actually do anything here? This goes hand in hand with huge risks you run, both from tax avoidance and money laundering, up to and including terrorist financing. Why do you have to want that? That's a big question. The second question makes the Council of State very intrusive. The Council of State is actually saying: we are laying down the gatekeeper function at these companies. We do so in more sectors; notaries are also a kind of gatekeepers of the financial system. In the system, that is not so unusual in itself. Only the core function of this trust sector is really: they exist of it! They provide services to parties. They can of course be bona fide parties, but they can also be bad parties. You actually make the wolf sheep shepherd; that's actually our model. With strict regulation, you try to make a bit of a good wolf out of it. But, yeah, he'll eat it and there'll be 200 competitors who'll take it from you. I think it is right that the Council of State raised the question of whether you can tame the wolf in such a way that you have to let it go with the sheep. I find these two basic questions to which I will also draw attention, particularly in that other debate. But I'm moving on to the bill now. I think that the legislative proposal is an improvement on what we have now; that is obvious. There are bad arrangements in supervision, and on a number of points the Minister improves the legislation. I will deal with a few additional questions that I have. First of all, internal supervision. It's about the gatekeeper function. You need to check to see if you don't serve criminals, or people who don't. That gatekeeper function is a heavy responsibility. Instead of one, there must be two people now. It is really a question of whether that is enough. The reason for this is: otherwise these smaller offices will not be able to do it. My second question to the Minister would be as follows. You lay down a very heavy responsibility here, to expose terrorists, to tackle money laundering, using all kinds of constructions. At that interrogation committee, we spent a whole day on those building drawings they're making, all the way to Latin America. I would say this to Mr Paternotte, who has gone into a case, I think I remember. So the question is whether two or three people can do that, and whether you should be willing to allow those small trust offices at all. Don't you just need a whole professional organization for that? And shouldn't you be stepping up those requirements much higher? For example, I find it rather odd that if you have such a great responsibility, you do not have to have a board of Commissioners, something that DNB proposes, for example, and which the Minister has not incorporated into the legislation. An SME of a small size in the Netherlands has a mandatory supervisory board, so that seems to me to be the least. So why wasn't this bill chosen? Mr. Chairman. That's internal surveillance. Now I come to that gatekeeper function myself. How does that control work in practice? There is now an obligation on trust offices to ask another trust office whether the man or woman who applies for this is a bit of a good one. I wonder how that works in practice. Because in the Netherlands there are already 200 of those offices. During the interviews, a Mossack Fonseca said: it was all right there. But how is that enforced? That's just a practical question. How are you gonna do that? Should they call everyone at those 200 offices in the Netherlands? How does it work in practice and does it work? Is there a register for that? How does it actually work in practice if someone is refused somewhere? Because the crux of course is that, if you can choose from 200 offices, of course you don't choose the most renowned office if you want to do something wrong, then you choose that gritty stuff, just like with notaries. Then one of them refuses you, and then you go to the next one. On the third, you've got a bite, and then you can continue your criminal activity. That is, of course, how things are going in practice. How do you make sure that doesn't happen? For me, it is a big question whether that is adequately addressed in this bill. Mr. Chairman. If you've done something wrong, what happens? I have just tabled an amendment with Mr Paternotte. According to the bill, you are no longer allowed to set up a trust office for a year, but we consider that to be very limited. Find out, with that handful of supervisors. Is that enough? If you've proven it all properly, because that's what you have to do in the Netherlands if you're going to impose something, you have to prove it well, if you're going to avoid it, you can't do that work for a year. Then you can do it again. Isn't that really skinny? That is why we have tabled an amendment to extend the denial of work. I wonder how the Minister looks at that. Mr. Chairman. Then today, but also last week, Mrs Leijten referred to the fact that not only the gatekeeper function in the trust sector, but even large banks, is under best pressure: ING earlier and ABN today is a diamond one of which nothing was good, of which they managed the accounts and did not cancel, to which they gave a loan. The big question is: is that right and if so, what will happen? I'd like a response from the Minister. If such banks, which are really quite sensitive to reputation and to which the American supervisor, if they have a banking license, can give a punishment that they are awake for a while, is so difficult to do in practice, how will it succeed then I come back to that wolf and those sheep..................................................................................................................................... That is the main question I would like to put in this debate, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u14	One more question from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u15	Mr Nijboer was chairman of the parliamentary interrogation committee on tax constructions around the world. That was in response to the Panama papers. If we look at what news is coming out now, among other things about those banks, but also about Mossack Fonseca himself, which had nothing in order, what everyone thought, does Mr Nijboer have the idea, despite the good report we have delivered, that we have examined it sufficiently or have been able to examine it sufficiently?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u16	We have gone on the road with a strictly defined research mission, over which a whole parliamentary battle was fought. There was a left-wing minority who also wanted to investigate the ruling practices. In the end, a small majority has come to the fore in order not to do so, but to start the interrogation committee. Within that mission we carried out our mission. But you know that the PvdA was in favour of the broader vision of the task and voted for it. We've just worked within our mandate. We worked well in there. I would like to congratulate Mrs Leijten on that, because it has always been very pleasant, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u17	It's getting a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u18	We did the best we could.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u19	It's getting a high on-know-us level, but okay. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u20	Perhaps that is also the problem of this subject: people who have studied it can see how important it is, but there is very little attention to it outside, while very big things are happening. Anyway, that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u21	I think it's good to keep thinking about that. I will raise this in the debate on the report of the parliamentary interrogation committee. Perhaps it will also be a group chairman's debate. That would be honorable for us as a committee. But the question of whether we have looked at everything sufficiently comes mainly from the news, with ING yesterday and ABN today, where we do not yet even talk about the tax arrangements with the multinationals. You can see that even at the banks you said: reputable banks are simply not being exercised. So when it comes to exactly how the money flies around the world, and how we check whether that money and the people behind it are right, it does require more analysis. But I will also ask the Minister this question later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u22	Fine. I always want to know more about this, but I also want us to act as legislators. This law is really a step in the right direction. I didn't hear the SP say that, but I think it's almost true. If you see what was lying there and what is now lying there, then it really is an improvement. But it's gonna take a lot more than that. I'm just gonna grab my notes and see if I missed anything. I would like to quote one sentence in the Council of State report on this point. He said that supervision is also very much entrusted. "A huge mortgage is placed on De Nederlandsche Bank." I thought it was a nice metaphor, but it's true. Given how often these trust offices are physically visited and how often there is real control, it is also the question of how far that can be achieved, also given the importance they have for the integrity of the financial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u23	Thank you. Then Mr Slootweg of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can recommend everyone to use the recess to read the book "Best Past" by former CDA-First MP Peter Essers. The somewhat playful title refers to the theme of the book: the Tax Administration in World War II. It also talks about the emergence of the trust sector in the Netherlands. Before 1940, when the threat of war was already in the air, Dutch companies secured their financial interests by settling in Curaçao. In this way a possible occupier could not access the money, but the company was still based in the Kingdom: the trust sector in the Netherlands was born. Companies like Philips and Shell were retained in this way for the Netherlands, because after the war they changed their seat back to the Netherlands. A trust sector that works in our interests: that is how the CDA Group would like to see it. Unfortunately, in all these decades, the trust sector has become rather colourful. Because when it first came to legitimate protection of property, the trust sector moved towards facilitating tax avoidance and, according to the Panama Papers, tax evasion. That's very bad. Therefore, it is not for nothing that DNB stated a few years ago that the trust sector is really on the wrong path and that supervision needs to be strengthened. This law contributes to this and can therefore be supported by the CDA Group. However, I would like to raise a number of points on which I would like to receive a response from the Minister. First of all, the letter of amendment. The Minister states that he is repairing a loophole in the law that would allow the trust services to be provided without authorisation. Services can then be cut down more difficult and therefore it becomes more difficult to circumvent the law. That supports the CDA Group. But can the unintended consequence not be that financial service providers, who provide business services but are not trust offices, are suddenly going to be subject to the law we are discussing this afternoon? I am thinking, for example, of an administration office that provides advice and serves as a postal address. Then perhaps the law here could pass its purpose. Can the Minister indicate whether he is aware of this unintended effect and how he looks at this problem? Trust offices will soon be obliged to invest the compliance function internally. Our group supports that principle. In the written round, we asked whether there could also be transitional rights, as guaranteeing such a function may have some internal feet in the earth if it is currently invested externally, for example continuous contracts. The Minister replied that offices can now anticipate, especially after the proposal has been adopted by the House of Representatives, because no changes can be made in the House of Representatives. There goes the minister one state-law step too fast. Certainly this minister should know that. After all, the First Chamber can simply send the law back. When the legislator imposes requirements on the management of private companies, it is up to the legislator to deal with this carefully. I would therefore like to ask the Minister to keep an eye on whether a lack of transitional periods will cause problems and thus affect the legal certainty of companies. The CDA is absolutely in favour of investing the compliance function internally, but we are also in favour of a government that sets fair rules. I'd like a response from the Minister. Then it's about social bespokeness. This concept is a rather dusty variant for the more hip "good use of standards and values" in society. In any case, trust offices will soon be expected to behave socially. The Council of State has rightly questioned whether this is too open a standard. For what is acceptable to one does not go far enough for the other. We understand that DNB is organising round tables this year to discuss this concept. This is where policy rules follow. This is the basis for assessing compliance with the concept. The CDA would like to contribute to this discussion by stating that social bespokeness must be interpreted in a strict way as far as we are concerned: not doing what is acceptable in society, but going one step further that which we all consider normal. Does the Minister agree with us? If so, is he going to transfer this to DNB and the sector? The sector itself indicates that it is engaged in cultural change and a social label that goes beyond the law, but here are opportunities. We would also like to know who will be invited to these round tables. For the support it is important that a broad group is invited. Does the invitation happen in consultation with the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u25	I said that if I talk to the minister one night about social bespokeness, we might have a good conversation, but we both talked about something else, or maybe not. It is indeed a vague interpretation. If you ask for a strict approach from the Minister, shouldn't that just be a strict definition? Or should there not be a strict definition from the outcome of that discussion with the sector and not be given legal force in any way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u26	I think it is very important that we just talk together for a moment about what we consider socially acceptable and then, so to speak, choose the most scary version of what we all find acceptable instead of the broad version.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u27	I understand that it may be strict as far as the CDA is concerned, but "social bespokeness" is vague. In this case, it is only about the trust sector. The round tables are organized with the sector and we know that the sector has a very different morale than we and people who do not live in that tax world would find socially appropriate. Apart from that it is vague and that you should not record it with the sector, is my interpretation, should you not allow the outcome of what everyone ultimately concludes to be legal in some way? This also allows you to say: the law is the limit and you cannot go beyond it; this is the definition and according to that definition you are over it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u28	First of all, I would like to answer the question of whether you should have a discussion on social welfare only with the sector. That is why I am curious to see which parties are invited, because I believe that there could be more than just the people working in the sector. The second point is what you indicated about after my reply on internal compliance. I also see that not everything can always be fulfilled by the law and that sometimes adjustments may be necessary. Let me put it this way: social bespokeness can also have an evolution. Suppose we think about five years: something happened here; then we thought it wasn't an issue, but now it actually turns out to lead to unjust things. I would find it difficult if we poured this into concrete and couldn't adjust it. So, in order to determine what is wise, let me wait for the Minister's answer. But in the case of the target, how can we interpret this as strictly as possible? You'll find the CDA on your side. Mr. Chairman. These proposals go beyond current legislation and regulations. The Minister states in the explanatory statement that the current legislation and regulations impose additional obligations compared to European legislation. However, this does not give us a good idea of how our regulations relate to those in our neighbouring countries. Does the Netherlands have stricter rules with the Wtt 2018 than the countries around us, and how does that express themselves? We often talk about behavioral reactions here, so are there behavioral reactions in the sense that trust offices disappear to countries with less strict regulations? Finally, Mr President. We welcome this bill, which tightens the reins on the sector. We also look forward to legislation that will seriously discourage and, preferably, eliminate the use of letterbox companies in the Netherlands. This is likely to affect the trust sector as well. The trust sector can then focus on the tasks with which it contributes to an efficient and fair economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u29	Thank you. Mr Paternotte of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u30	Mr. Chairman. Last year I, too, was allowed to operate in Henk Nijboer's electoral corps, which served as Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Tax Constructions. Well, that made an impression, because a lot of things came along. We were talking about self-regulation. The director of the largest trust office in the Netherlands sat in front of us and explained that the Cayman Islands are not tax haven. In the Cayman Islands, 60,000 people live and 100,000 companies are registered. The islands have white beaches and almost always sunshine and have a corporation tax of exactly 0%. According to the director of the largest trust office, this is not a tax haven, but a tax-neutral jurisdiction and a financial center. Mr. Chairman. The British writer and Christian apologist C.S. Lewis wrote: integrity is doing the right thing, even when no one is watching. From all the interviews it became clear to me that doing the right thing for a far too large part of the trust sector is unfortunately something you have to settle and that the law is something you should not pay more attention to than strictly necessary, if all the choice is made to comply with the law. Then we kept thinking: this can't be true; what is this parallel world in which the customer is king when the customer is often not even in the picture? Mr. Chairman. The trust sector, of course, also has a legitimate reason for existence. Mr Slootweg just outlined the origins, which are actually Dutch, but also the facilitation of cooperation, the joint ventures between companies, or the choice to temporarily accommodate certain activities from the point of view of legal certainty. Only, that legitimacy is constantly undermined by the image of the drain of the financial sector. Last week, the news about ING in Belgium showed this. New names came out of constructions that can't stand the light of day. One of these routes was found to go through ING. The Dutch Bank warned about this years ago. ABN AMRO has been hit on the fingers before and in Belgium the ING had to give Minister Van Overtveldt a text and explanation. That is why I am asking whether the Minister of Finance has also discussed this with ING. In particular, I would like to ask whether the new list has already been revised. Can he assure us that ING did not cooperate in the Netherlands in any case? Mr. Chairman. This discussion and this bill of course stem from the many leaks of recent years, the different papers. They helped set the standard. It is also good that Mossack Fonseca de Panama Papers hasn't recovered at all. That's a sign that customers no longer want to be in the sea with an office that has a reputation for not being integrity. An integrity sector can therefore be partly enforced by customers who vote with their feet, and do not want to be associated with such an office. At the same time, Mossack Fonseca has competitors of similar size all over the world, but without Panama Papers. They're just there, and we don't know if they're fundamentally different from Mossack Fonseca. Chances are there's the same problem there as in Panama. The customer is hardly known, but must be in the picture. In this respect, we should not expect this bill to mean miracles, because the customer must already know, client investigation is mandatory and the trust sector must be a tough gatekeeper. This law only strengthens the framework conditions for that, and that is very good. But the most important condition is, as far as we are concerned, active supervision of client research with significant consequences for culpable behaviour. If that goes well, every smart driver will leave it out of his head to break the law. In the note following the report, the Minister made clear what steps are now to be taken in the client investigation. That's robust, but the proof of the pudding is in the eating. Mr. Chairman. Active supervision with significant consequences requires a strong supervisor who knows what he can maintain. The Council of State also draws attention with care to the many open standards that, according to him, mortgage the supervision of De Nederlandsche Bank. It has also been said by others: The Netherlands Bank oversees 212 permits with twelve people. They have to review 212 reports annually, check information from them, determine whether the law is being observed, visit offices, make recommendations, ultimately pass fines and decide on permits. In the past year, De Nederlandsche Bank has been able to visit only 17 of the offices. So the chances of you getting on radar as an office from risk-controlled surveillance are low. The question is therefore: does the Minister think that this twelve FTE is sufficient and, if not, will he, in consultation with De Nederlandsche Bank, give the supervision more power? As far as we are concerned, doubling the number of people would be a good goal. Can the Minister undertake to do this? In the case of serious violations that make it clear that a director of a trust office wanted to get better from gross violations, it should also be avoided that such a figure shows up shortly later with a new trust office. So if De Nederlandsche Bank can give a long-term consequence of highly culpable behaviour, that also strengthens the supervisor. So I am indeed tabling an amendment with Mr Nijboer to make this possible. Mr. Chairman. In addition to supervision, a government that creates a clear legal framework on how trust offices themselves are organised helps. Trust offices must have at least two policy makers with this law. At the parliamentary interrogation committee, we often found that a trust office is a one-man business, of a service provider who, as an integrity check, only has the mirror at his disposal. These agencies can't get a license from now on, and that's good. The question is how many of the 212 trust permits are actually involved. Of course, the two-man or female business is still possible. Then one of those persons should become the compliance officer, in addition to his regular duties, and the compliance officer should be able to address the board at any time when integrity is at stake. The other person is the audit officer, and he has to test the independence of the compliance officer. Let's say the brothers of the Kerkhof start a trust office together. Willy's a compliance officer, René's an audit officer, and they're each other's check-and-balance. This seems to me to be a difficult, if not impossible, construction. How does the Minister see that? Not for nothing small offices now also outsource the compliance function. I know that the parliamentary interrogation committee has said, together with DNB: it must do so internally. But at these small offices, I can also imagine that an external view can help to meet the standard. Why does the Minister think that internal organisation is better for these very small offices? Is that really possible in practice for these small offices? Wouldn't it be better if compliance reports are shared with De Nederlandsche Bank by default, so that there is still an external test, albeit through risk-driven supervision? I would also like to hear a comment on this. Mr. Chairman. Finally. The bill separates tax advice and trust service to create gatekeepership for dubious constructions. That is very good, and that is an important step. I think it is also clearly stated in the note. But have we implemented the division of roles far enough? Citco is one of the larger trust offices in our country and sells itself on the international website as a provider of banking and trust services. A one-stop shop, actually. In the Netherlands, that banking licence is placed under the same name at a separate office with a separate legal person. This is, of course, different from giving tax advice and providing trust services to implement the same tax advice. That's very good in the law. But a bank, like a trust office, has a gatekeeper function. If that function would be fulfilled by almost the same batch, you could say: it is still a blade less on the shaver; it is the reverse Gilette model. Let me return to the example of the Russian oil magnate. This was done through ING. If the trust office itself is a bank, it doesn't even have to be. Not for nothing does financial services in tax havens almost always cover the combination of bank and trust office, because that keeps respectable banks out of these kinds of structures. Does the Minister consider that the combination of bank and trust office within a group is desirable? And is he willing to investigate whether a separation can strengthen entire gatekeeper function and prevent the coincidence of undesirable interests? I see I have two minutes left, but I'll give it back to the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u31	Thank you very much for that. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Van der Linde of the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u32	Mr. Chairman. The VVD cherishes the tax location climate in the Netherlands. We have a well-developed and fair tax system, which is also well tailored to the protection of intellectual property and innovations. That is precisely why we need to focus on rotten apples in the basket. Anyone who uses a tax construction through the Netherlands to unduly evade tax payments must be dealt with. In 2004 we therefore introduced the Supervisory Trust Office Act. Trust offices were positioned as gatekeepers. They have a particular responsibility to investigate integrity risks; we have just discussed them. Well, DNB's ongoing supervision shows that that compliance function is simply not in order. Trust offices only appear to be able to comply with the law after specific instructions from DNB. Part of the 229 trust offices deliberately and consistently look up the edges of the legislation. The bill we're discussing today is a tightening up of the Supervisory Trust Office Act. It maintains the gatekeeper's idea, but it imposes stricter requirements on legal form and on business. It prohibits the combination of tax advice and trust services and also strengthens customer research. In particular, trust offices should investigate the ultimate benifical owner. I'm just saying "UBO"; it comes out of my mouth a little easier. All in all, the VVD is a strong supporter of the law. It is good that we remain focused on the integrity of the financial sector and that we prevent abuse. That doesn't mean we don't have any more worries. We now see that the Supervisory Trust Office Act is being bypassed. Foreign entities simply establish a Dutch subsidiary-e.g.. They rent an office, appoint a director, and then they can provide exactly the same services without supervision. It is also apparent that it is possible to cut up a trust office's services package, which leaves it outside the legal definition of trust offices. We have drawn attention to this in the input. In the note on the report we see that the Minister recognizes the problem and also partially fixes it. The latter then applies to the cutting. But right now, we're gonna have the next problem. Yesterday, we had a proper trade association, a royal branch organisation, which says: we suddenly fall under the definition of trust office. I would have liked to clarify that point before we push this bill to the Upper House, if only for the history of law. Of course, it cannot be the intention that we should suddenly consider other organisations to be trust offices.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u33	There is a question from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u34	Mr Van der Linde says that it cannot be that if you are a foreign company here and you appoint a director, you do not use the trust sector? But it's been possible for years. For example, IKEA does that. The European Commission is now examining whether this has led to serious tax avoidance or evasion and whether there may be State aid, because it is done with the approval of the Dutch Tax Administration. If Mr Van der Linde now says: it should not be possible for a foreign company here to set up a company and appoint a director, then I wonder how he will arrange it, because I think we can do business then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u35	I did not say that no one should establish a daughter-e.g. in the Netherlands. I was talking about circumventing the legislation, i.e. businesses that now position themselves as trust offices and suddenly take a different form as a subsidiary - for example. That can't be the intention. That a dying company like IKEA, to mention that name, has a full-fledged daughter here to set up its intellectual property, I think that is of a different order. But that's different than trying to dive in a shady way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u36	It may be that the VVD and the SP think differently about what is shadowy. A real factory filled with all kinds of debts, which means that you have to pay less tax abroad because you transfer it all to that Dutch factory: I call that shady. That's using that great tax climate of the VVD, but that's been happening for years. If it's seen now that the vehicle, the anonymising vehicle that was the trust sector, you can hide behind drivers who do the work for you, which keeps you out of sight, whether you have good intentions or bad intentions, shouldn't we also tackle other constructions that keep you out of sight how to hack your money around the world as a company or as a criminal organization?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u37	Mrs Leijten has already replied in part. The SP and the VVD are very different about this. If we adopt tax laws all together, then we should not be surprised that companies make use of the option, like you and I also use the income tax deductions. That's what we all use. They're not here for nothing, and if that's okay with you, you can. You can't blame a company for that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u38	That is true, but that does not alter the fact that a political party can propose, for example, limiting mortgage interest rates to a certain amount, for villas. Or to say: we really want to get rid of the gift deduction. Of course, you can always do that. You say, "We had a trust sector that was used and now they're not doing it anymore, can't we?" Yes, you can! If you want to do something about it, you will have to do something about the Netherlands as a fiscal black hole. And I am not saying that, as the European Commission says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u39	"The Netherlands as a tax black hole" will certainly not be the description I have. I am proud of the fiscal climate in the Netherlands. This enables a lot of companies to settle here, with certainty in advance. I am not going to repeat last night's debate, because I think we have put enough energy into it. That is extremely important in the Netherlands. The fact that there is a trust sector is just a fact. We can find something moral about that, but it also has advantages. Mr Paternotte has just described this. It has something to do with legal certainty. It has something to do with organizing yourself efficiently. For example, this can apply to a large department store. I don't think that's crazy. Only what we all have to get rid of, and I think that Mrs Leijten and I can find each other there are the shady businesses that carry out activities by sitting exactly at the limit of legislation every time. If they are then going to disguise themselves as daughter-e.g., then we have another discussion. I would have stayed with that neat industry organization, royally, who now suddenly turns out to be a trust office, at least that's what they're afraid of. If the Minister has anything else to say about that, please. In any case, it is good that the Minister is keen on circumventing the definitions in the bill and that he remains on top of them. He may want to indicate how he will continue to monitor this in the years to come. On another point, the Minister has been in favour of the VVD. He doubled the penalty for infringements, also by letter of amendment. The maximum fine is now set at 20% of turnover. That's where we can find each other. The last and most important point for the VVD is the compliance function. The Minister insists on an internal compliance officer, and we are surprised by that. For many years, excellent compliance services have been offered in business services. How does the Minister see that? An office of three or four people and then an internal compliance officer? And then there is a good separation of work and clear accountability, because that is what the note on the basis of the report says. I now understand what the real problem was. The Nederlandsche Bank ran into one and the same external compliance service provider at many trust offices, which was definitely below par. But let's talk about that. A good external service provider is available every day and can be found very regularly on the workplace. It brings with it strict guidelines and clear procedures. In my opinion, DNB can simply make demands on this. It makes sense to have your own compliance officer in a larger office. In a small office it quickly becomes a sham construction with a part-timer or if necessary the caterer as a compliance officer. Would the Minister like to go into this in detail? Mr President, I am going to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u40	Thank you. One more question from Mr Nijboer, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u41	As always, Mr. Chairman. Has the VVD moved in this area of letterbox companies in the last ten years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u42	You ask me a question of conscience, because I didn't look back ten years. If you mean that at least now we're keen on abuse, I don't think we've moved much since ten years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u43	That's my image, too. Mr Van der Linde starts by saying how important the tax environment is. We have had a financial crisis, the financial sector was unhealthy, we have had the interrogation committee, the Panama Papers and huge corruption worldwide. The VVD then has an attitude that is quite good that the Netherlands could facilitate as long as the whole thing as a tax turntable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u44	This is too easy for me. I have explained what is good about the location climate, what we are opposed to trust offices and why we have legislation. Abuse just needs to be dealt with. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u45	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u46	The hope I had is that the VVD was against abuse ten years ago. That they didn't say, "Abust yourself, break the law." My question is this: it is fundamental whether the VVD believes that in points such as letterbox companies, tax competition, tax constructions and the financial sector we have moved something or are back to square one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u47	That remains a very easy approach. We must be extremely proud of the Netherlands as a country of residence. This includes a tax location climate. This includes the fact that we have good arrangements for protecting intellectual property, for example. With this we attract the most innovative companies to the Netherlands. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's We have to accept that, but abuse must be dealt with. I'm gonna say it again. That's what the VVD stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u48	Fine. Mrs Leijten is also brief and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u49	This is above all a procedural point, Mr President. I mentioned in my term that it might be possible to hold this legislative proposal until we discuss the final report of the parliamentary interrogation committee in the first week of the year. Would that be an objection to the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u50	I think that's a missed opportunity. It means that two months later we will have to tighten up the legislation. I don't see the benefit of that right away. I am happy to pass on your question to the Minister, who will undoubtedly agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u51	I have argued that it is a missed opportunity to respond to the eight opinions of DNB, the regulator in this sector, who considers that this sector has no self-cleaning capacity. We know that at least one third of them are in Panama Papers, and that's just a small law firm in the whole tax avoidance business. You could say that this sector has serious problems. If only three of the eight proposals are accepted, this might justify a debate on these eight proposals. Perhaps it would be a good idea to postpone it for two months, so that we do not have to make another whole new bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u52	What does it matter to us to accept this so that we have at least settled this? This legislative proposal does not deal with any practical abuse and makes more specific demands. If, as a result of another debate, you think we should go over it again, we will. I'm just trying to take a look at the perspective with you. If we wait two months, we will have a debate and then send the Minister back on his way to make new legislation. And then we're gonna need another consult. Well, then you're two years away, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u53	That's exactly why you shouldn't take it now. You know why I asked you to do it? When we had the parliamentary survey on housing corporations, the conclusions were dealt with at the same time as a bill from Minister Blok. That bill has been improved by the Chamber; she had just seen how to do it. That went very well hand in hand. Why would you now adopt a bill to make a new bill in two months' time and delay two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u54	I have dealt with this legislation myself. I must say that we were all in a quick cooker at the time. Honestly, I don't know. I had two stacks of 1,800 pages lying on my desk or the quality of the handling of the bill improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u55	I'll suspend until 3:30. Then we're gonna listen to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u56	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u57	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank all Members for the large number of comments and questions they have made on all kinds of sub-topics relating to the present legislative proposal, but also matters outside this legislative proposal. I will make a number of general introductory remarks, after which I will go into the questions about customer research, compliance, supervision, enforcement and fiscal aspects in a block-by-block manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u58	Before you do this, let me make a small point of order. We are a little tight in our time today, because there are some things on the agenda, just like tomorrow and next week. You should simply take your time as Minister and tell us what to tell you, but if we are going to run very out of time, we could consider moving the second term to next week. That depends a little on the speed we're making. Again, if necessary, we will do the second term next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u59	I'll do a little puzzle on whether this is an encouragement to do it quickly, or to slow it down. Let's just get started. Trust offices have been subject to authorisation under the Supervisory Trust Office Act since 2004. The reason was that trust services, by their nature, should be regarded as services with a high integrity risk. According to the Supervisory Trust Offices Act, trust firms are expected to behave as the members referred to there as one of the gatekeepers of the Dutch financial system. Mr Nijboer and Mrs Leijten, as well as others, have said. Trust offices should make efforts to help prevent the use of the Dutch financial system for money laundering, financing terrorism or acts that are considered socially inappropriate. We are here today because De Nederlandsche Bank has found that trust offices do not fulfil this role sufficiently, both according to the letter and the spirit of the law. That is why, after a very extensive period of preparation, this law is before your Chamber for discussion. The image of DNB and also of the Ministry has been explicitly confirmed by the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Fiscal Constructions, also known in the corridors as "the Nijboer electoral corps." By the way, the scope of this committee was much wider. It is relevant to say this, because this is really only about the trust offices. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the package before us is not a response to all the issues raised in the interrogation committee, but rather a comprehensive response to many of the problems in the field of trust offices. Almost all the spokesmen, Mr Nijboer, Mr Paternotte, but others too have asked how we can prevent legislation from getting out and avoiding and cutting. Almost all parties have asked for this. My observation is that this legislation is effective. At the same time, you see that was one of the reasons to inform the Chamber again about the cutting and the reaction to it. I'll be the first to acknowledge that this isn't the end of the song. As far as I am concerned, this is an important step forward, and I believe that most Members of the Chamber share this, but this is not the end of the game. We will certainly be discussing this subject more often, even during this parliamentary period, and we will also have to continue along the same lines. Mr Nijboer and Mrs Leijten asked why not all the legislative suggestions in the POFC report were taken up. My observation is that most of the suggestions made have been included in this bill. Among other things, the stricter requirements, the compliance function, the prohibition of outsourcing, the prohibition of tax advice from trust offices to one client, the extension of the grounds for withdrawal, the authorisation, the increased disclosure obligation and the tightening of the client investigation have been included. What we have not taken on board, Mrs Leijten, has rightly referred to this, for example, is the mandatory board of Commissioners, thinking that this is not proportionate and that the proposal already creates sufficient internal opposition. The reason not to opt for a mandatory audit by an accountant also has a real substantive reason. That would mean that the auditor would supervise the financial position of the firm itself. But I think the concern of the Chamber and of everyone who deals with this is mainly with the underlying clients.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u60	I have a question about the Supervisory Board. The Netherlands Bank has also argued in favour of this. Given the important gatekeeper function invested in the law, it would not be foolish to require a supervisory board to supervise, so that it is truly guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u61	That is an important consideration that we have to make. The question is whether the end justifies the means, especially for the smaller offices. Mr Nijboer himself referred to SMEs. Not all SMEs have a supervisory board. It's a little more nuanced than the way he put it in his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u62	I don't think it's a problem if the small offices can't survive anymore. I have great concerns about their ability to fulfil the great obligations of this law with one and a half men and a horse's head. I'm worried that they'll be abused by people who have wrong goals. So I don't mind being forced into more professional offices. The fact that a baker doesn't have a board of directors is no problem. It just goes bankrupt if he's wrong. But terrorists can take advantage of this, or people who want to launder things that aren't right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u63	I share with Mr Nijboer that you must fly this from the content. However, I am looking at something else about the idea that this bill could mean that, given the step-up in supervision and given all the regulations, especially larger, more professional parties remain. I don't think that's undesirable in itself. Only I start the reasoning from the point of view of content. The conclusion may be that smaller offices are likely to be less and less able to compete. I will come back to Mr Nijboer's question about the smallest offices, but I do not think there is a trust office consisting of one person. This trend is likely to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u64	I should hope so. But I'm also starting from the point of view of content. I think, in substance, that more people are needed as policymakers, and I think, in substance, that there is a need for a supervisory board. It's a conclusion that those smaller offices may not survive, but that's not my problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u65	We've weighed up what's proportional. You can say: such a board of Commissioners can help. But if you look at how the sector has now been set up and look at where, in general terms, a supervisory board has been made compulsory in business, then we have changed the balance sheet. But once again, I agree with Mr Nijboer that it is quite possible that smaller trust offices should draw the conclusion that they cannot participate, given the requirements of professionalisation, if I may put it that way. But he also really doesn't want the small offices to survive this, when I want it to get better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u66	The governance model with a supervisory board or a supervisory board is not blissful. I have often seen enough in my former healthcare spokesmanship that this is not necessarily the guarantee of good governance. I argued that if you don't, you can overcome the DNB's request to organise lower supervision by strengthening the supervision of DNB itself. For example, you can strengthen the supervision of the smaller players, if they are not able to do so internally or with a supervisor. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u67	I understand Mrs Leijten's question very well. I would like to say a few words about internal and external supervision and take its point into account. If I do not answer her question, I will undoubtedly find her again at the interrupting microphone. I would like to say one last thing about DNB's suggestions and what we are or are not accepting. We're really taking over the majority. This legislative proposal also gives DNB more information and more control mechanisms. I am going to say a few words at the end about the amendment relating to the prohibition of work. However, let me make it clear that I can take a positive basic position on this. Mr. Chairman. Then I have had these questions from Mrs Leijten and Mr Nijboer. Mrs Leijten pointed out that the announcement of this bill alone led to what she called shadow trust offices. She asked what this said about the tax advisory practice. It's really good that this bill is coming. It's really being polite as a step forward. So it also says that the integrity and professionalism of the sector is insufficient in this respect. Mrs Leijten, from the fact that that immediately evokes that reaction and there have been many critical noises towards the Chamber, but also towards the Ministry, about parts of this bill, could draw the conclusion that it should therefore be a good legislative proposal. Maybe I can put it that way. Mrs Leijten asked what would happen if a customer of tax advice came in for a target company at a later date. A trust office may not provide trust services if it has given tax advice to the same client. There's no time limit for that. Mr Paternotte asked another intriguing question. He asked about the coincidence of bank and trust offices and if I'm willing to investigate. In itself, I am, but that combination occurs only once to my perception. So that's gonna be a limited investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u68	Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u69	I had three sentences left, but I thought Mr Paternotte would help me get on my way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u70	Don't take too much care of people standing by the interrupting microphone, I'd say. Just finish your story. Then we always find a moment for the interrupter. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u71	Thank you to the Minister for immediately caring about the people at the interrupting microphone. There is indeed one example in the Netherlands. We see abroad, of course, that there are many more. We've got the bank license light under development. I think it would be a good idea to know in the front too what we think and what we do not want. I deliberately mentioned the example of ING. At least there's a second gatekeeper. You don't have one if the trust office is actually the bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u72	Yeah, I'd be happy to put it on the list. I suspect that there are more things I can and may investigate regarding the trust offices when I walk out of this plenary room. I'd like to add these. I would like to add that supervision shows, if you compare it with abroad, but also if you just look at the Netherlands, that there is no reason to assume that there are particular risks. It's the first subject I put in the basket. Mr. Chairman. In particular, Mrs Leijten, but to a lesser extent some other spokesmen, asked about integrity and self-regulatory capacity. It is precisely because we have seen that things are really not going well enough in this sector, especially in terms of integrity, that we want to do more than just leave it to the self-regulatory capacity of the sector. That is exactly why we are doing something other than self-regulation. We come up with legislation that is comprehensive and not childish. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Linden asked whether the scope of the law would be extended to administrative offices and trade associations. At least that's how I understood his question. The trust services in this bill are similar to those in the current law. Nothing changes in that respect. If parties are not covered by the law now, they will not be covered. Mr Nijboer asked about small trust offices. I think I answered that question. Mrs Leijten asked what specific legitimate objectives there are. She has the question of why you should have the sector at all. That's how I interpret it. I understand that from her political point of view. Of course, there is a difference of opinion. Apart from how you weigh it then, I think it is obvious that there are substantive reasons why you might want to believe that the trust sector has added value. This has to do with legal certainty, efficiency and also with the fact that the Netherlands is a safe and predictable country in terms of political climate. So, as far as I am concerned, these are all legitimate reasons why the sector exists. I think it was Mr Slootweg who went all the way back in history. As far as I am concerned, he also showed exactly why the sector was ever created.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u73	The sector has also been created to safeguard assets, but I believe that the sector is now often used for purely fiscal purposes or purely for anonymisation purposes. We also have a whole discussion about substance, the presence in a country. And we know that it is actually not present through these letterbox offices or office planters. So it is about fiscal or anonymisation. But what legitimate goals would there be for a company when it comes to being in a country? Because if you are present somewhere, you can deliver your own driver, you can do your own administration. That's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u74	Mr President, I think that I have given that answer and I think that we are really threatening to get involved in this debate in a much broader subject that is about: are you in favour of or against the sector? That is much wider than what we intend to do with this bill. I believe that a well-functioning trust sector can have added value in itself for a country and for our country. I have just indicated that this has to do with efficiency, with the predictability of a country, with also the desire of the Netherlands to facilitate the arrival of companies here. This legislative proposal is about finding that we are in agreement with each other, and I think that it is not possible for the sector to do all sorts of dubious things. It is therefore a significant tightening-up of the current legislation. More specifically, Mrs Leijten asks the meta-question: do we really need this sector? That is a question to which I think we are giving a different answer. But b, of course, is not the question that lies ahead of this bill either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u75	I doubt that. If you have a trust sector for real companies that need that sector, you can say: that sector contributes to our economy. If you have a trust sector that consists mainly of letterboxes, and account numbers through which a lot of money zooms, and where we use our tax rules not to pay taxes in Africa, for example, then you can ask yourself what that sector adds to our economy. It is said to add something to our economy. I wonder what exactly such a target company, which only makes money through, adds to our economy. That's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u76	I would like to say once again that this has really led us to the fiscal debate, which I believe the Chamber regularly conducts, once in a while with me and regularly with the Secretary of State for Finance. Mrs Leijten also knows that we are really doing something to make a move in which we want to get rid of the pure mailboxes. That is clear, although, in Mrs Leijten's view, we may not be doing enough about it. But that is, as far as I am concerned, a really different discussion. Mr Slootweg asked whether the regulation is stricter than EU legislation, or stricter than the regulations in the countries around us. The answer is yes, the Wtt is indeed stricter. For example, customer research has been made compulsory and there are also stricter requirements regarding the organisation of trust offices. That is not entirely surprising, by the way. In the meantime, I am looking at where Mr Slootweg has gone, because I do not see him in the Chamber now. This is, of course, also in line with the fact that we have a relatively large sector and that we also agree in politics that we need to monitor more closely. Mr Slootweg also asked whether the legislative proposal had the effect of sending trust offices to neighbouring countries. It doesn't seem likely that companies will. The fact that the trust sector in the Netherlands is quite large obviously has to do with the locational climate. Mr Van der Linde rightly referred to this as well. Mrs Leijten asked whether we could not hold the vote on this bill until later when we have finished the debate on the committee. Then, of course, you end up in a discussion about what two months really matter. Well, I would argue for myself that there are many sensible things in this and that I think I can taste that we all think that we really need to change this as soon as possible. Of course, if it is passed here, the bill must also be sent to the Upper House. I'm inclined to make speed myself. It's also a little "the better is the enemy of the good." Because if new conclusions were to come out of the POFC debates in a moment, it could take some time for them to fall back into regulation. But state law, President-in-Office of the Council, and that may be the last thing I have to say about it, of course, is the Chamber which deals with its own agenda. I do not immediately see the benefits of this, and I would be interested to understand Mrs Leijten's second term even better. But I think it is up to the Court of Justice to decide whether or not to vote on a legislative proposal. Then there are 212 trust permits and how many of them there are for a one-man business. For one man's business, there are zero, I say to Mr Paternotte. With regard to the number of trust permits for offices with two participants, he referred to the brothers Van de Kerkhof, I see needy gestures from the prison, so we should look into that thoroughly. So let me come back to that in writing, because we are not prepared to do so. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Linde was quite right to ask how I will continue to monitor this sector over the next few years. I was just saying that this really isn't the end of the song as far as I'm concerned. This is not the beginning, but it is an important milestone. All kinds of things have been said by the Court which require further scrutiny in practice. DNB continues to actively inform me about this. Within five years, I want to evaluate the law and I also want to see if this has strengthened the movement that we want. I will, of course, listen very carefully to the opinions of DNB. Mr. Chairman. I come to the subject of compliance. That is where the discussion is about whether internal compliance is feasible for small offices or not. What do you want? The comparison was made with a couple who would run a trust office, or the brothers Van de Kerkhof, or the coffee lady. Are you going to end up in a difficult situation or not? Let me be honest: internal versus external is, of course, a dilemma. The optimum may not exist here either. But it is not for nothing that DNB and the committee headed by Mr Nijboer have said: there is a strong logic for choosing internally. Because if an external auditor is to talk to DNB then I come to the table periodically, is not at the table every day and probably has less insight into how it all works afterwards. Is it guaranteed that if you do it internally, especially if you do it at a small trust office, it'll all go well? No, of course that is not the case. I can't give you a firm guarantee on that. But I think this step is indeed an improvement. Mrs Leijten then asked me whether it was still necessary to determine the level at which this would take place, in order to prevent it from being done by the trainee. I think that's a logical question in itself. I would like to have that conversation with DNB, because I think it would also be a good idea to look at where it should be invested after this bill has been passed. I can well imagine the inspiration behind her question and I would also like to talk to DNB about it, but I do not think it is something we should want to anchor in the law. Mr Paternotte asked if we should share the compliance reports with DNB by default, so that an external test takes place. In my view, that is not necessary, because DNB receives sufficient information. For the record: DNB requests annual data from all trust offices. So DNB does that not only at the trust offices that are visited, but at all trust offices. These include questions about how the trust office was set up, about clients and about UBOs. So I would also like to take away the thought that might be put in the Chamber, namely that DNB only has a view of that relatively limited group that is being visited. DNB does this in, of course, year out and, to my mind, really has a good overview of what the apples look like in the basket, to quote Mr Van der Linde's comparison.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u77	The minister says DNB has a good picture of the apples in the basket. We have of course had a lot of interviews with various representatives of DNB, and that was not quite the impression. Indeed, it was pointed out that the limited capacity of DNB combined with the principle of risk-driven supervision, of course, means that there is a lot of slipping through the loopholes. That is why I am asking the same question. I've spoken to a former trust manager who knew the sector well. He said you should actually let DNB watch live in all compliance files. Of course, that goes a long way, but shouldn't DNB just use that principle as a standard: send us those compliance files?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u78	At least that is not one of the things DNB has put at the top of the shopping list with us, while one is explicit about what one does and does not want. That is precisely why I am hesitant and reluctant. Mr Paternotte, and I think Mrs Leijten too, suggested that you should not double the number of FTEs from 12 to 24. I think it is rather arbitrary for me here to split the independent supervisory authority into the stomachs of the Chamber to get the double number of FTEs in this particular area. As far as I am concerned, it should be the other way around: DNB should be able to say what they need in order to monitor this properly, on the basis of the new legislation, which hopefully will be there as soon as possible. The answer that rolls out there may be 12, 9 or 30 fte, but that's what I think of DNB. So I don't think it's so pure administratively to force DNB through the questions here to double the number.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u79	I understand that very well. The metaphor used by fellow committee member Van Dam has always been with me. He compared De Nederlandsche Bank with a candy store with 212 children, where you have to make sure that all those children stay out of the candy jar with their hands. I get that. DNB also indicated to us: of course it is not up to us to say that we need additional people; we need to be modest in this. It's up to you to judge that, isn't it? So I get that you'll go back to: I don't hear that from DNB. We didn't hear that from DNB either, but I did interpret that as a reason to conduct the conversation properly. So my question is, did you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u80	But then there is one comment and perhaps also a beginning of a solution. The Chamber knows that I have very regular contact with DNB and that we also have very regular contact with DNB.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u81	"DNB" is "De Nederlandsche Bank," I say for the people at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u82	The Dutch Bank. My observation is that at the moment that De Nederlandsche Bank experiences problems in the supervision that have to do with operational matters, it is not too gloomy to report this to us. But here's what I'm gonna do. In the next discussion I have with Mr Knot, the President of De Nederlandsche Bank, I specifically ask whether there is a problem here, and if so, how it should be resolved in his view. That seems to me to be more purer than saying to him by means of a motion: congratulations, you now have 24 people in this department who oversee it. I hope Mrs Leijten and Mr Paternotte also understand that this seems to me very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u83	I would like to come back to the employee who is responsible for the monitoring of legislation and regulations. It's called compliance officer. Article 15 of the law deals with this. Paragraph 3 has created an opportunity to examine this, to see whether rules are needed and to do so with a general measure of governance. Moreover, it has often been the case that detailed rules have been laid down for the exercise of functions or supervision in the case of, or under general administrative measures. I said I'd make a motion on it if I had to. That is not necessary if the Minister is to engage in this discussion. However, I would like to ask the Minister how this discussion ended and whether this will lead to such a more detailed interpretation. And is he willing to share that further detail, if there is one, with the Chamber first by means of a wallpaper procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u84	I would like to complicate Mrs Leijten's solution a little further. It would be useful to start the discussion with DNB on how to see how internal guarantees of compliance should take place in such a way that you know as much as possible that this is happening at the right level, with sufficient independence, with sufficient seniority and so on. In this way, we are now back in the casuistics that I just saw with Mr Nijboer that as long as there are relatively small trust offices, this is of a different order than when it comes to an organisation of some dozens of people. I think we'll agree soon. I would like to say to Mrs Leijten that phasing is an important element in this. I would like to give her the following undertaking. If I have the conversation with DNB and I find that DNB sees good in it and we can make that practical, I come back with an AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u85	Of course, it may well be that such a more detailed interpretation of the law, which is such a general measure of governance, is not necessary. We have asked for this in the written preparation and we have received good answers, but it is all still a bit "in the legal process." Because the sector is limited only by the limits of the law, and not by the interpretation of the Chamber and not by the morality that comes from, for example, the supervisor or society, I ask the Minister to put it together or let De Nederlandsche Bank do so how he prefers to see it. Don't hesitate to use this if you have to. Communicate clearly about it. Let the sector know how you want this. Because if it is meant to be so sincere, but vaguely remains in the different pieces we have now, then I do know that there is an easy way to take a walk because it is not legally defined.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u86	Let me get this straight. I think Mrs Leijten wants to go from the beauty of the legal debate to the swamp of reality. I would like to take this trip with her, but I would just like to say that I want to do so after listening to what is a very relevant advisor, namely De Nederlandsche Bank itself. Furthermore, I believe that Mrs Leijten said exactly the same thing as I did, namely that if we see opportunities to do so, we should want to anchor that, also in an AMvB. Mr. Chairman. That brings me from strengthening integrity and internal versions externally to the next block, on supervision and enforcement. Mr Paternotte asked me whether this is in line with what we just exchanged in the event of interruption, or whether I believe that the risk-based approach to supervision is effective. Yeah, in itself. Of course, if you do a 100% check, you'll fly that much wider. However, I know that Mr Paternotte has a solution to this problem, and I wonder whether this is necessary. Of course, we do this figure of risk-based supervision in all kinds of sectors. Again, it is also De Nederlandsche Bank itself that concentrates that supervision where it is thought to be as effective as possible. Mr Paternotte and Mrs Leijten asked about capacity, but I talked about that. Mrs. Leijten asked: what if you just visit all the trust offices or if you spend every two to three years... This does not appear to be an efficient use of De Nederlandsche Bank's time. Mr. Chairman. Then I am with Mr Nijboer, who asked how it would work if someone had been refused and how we would ensure that someone would not be helped at another trust office. I thought that was a very understandable question, because it could happen in practice every now and then. Of course, I cannot give a 100% guarantee that this will not happen. What's the essence and why we're discussing this bill today is that we want trust offices to do a careful and thorough investigation of their clients. That is the obligation of the first, in the example of Mr Nijboer, but also of the second and also of the third. This also raises the question of whether services have already been requested elsewhere. I think that's a relevant fact. This means that DNB can intervene if requested but the service has not been provided and one is happy to go to the second, the third or the fourth and is happy to be helped there. Mr. Chairman. Mr Slootweg asked about social bespokeness. The term came along a few times. Mrs. Leijten did the same. So let me say a little more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u87	I see Mr. Nijboer wants to interrupt. This is still about the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u88	I'm a bit of a practical man, so I'm just wondering how 200 trust offices are doing in practice. Someone's being rejected by a trust office and reporting to someone else. How's that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u89	This is a question of conciliation. I think Mr. Nijboer worked about as many hours himself at a trust office as I did, which is zero. So it gets complicated to explain the practice to him completely. In my view, this is a part of the duty that we want to impose on trust offices and that De Nederlandsche Bank will then have to monitor it effectively. Do you have 100% warranty? No, you don't, but of course you don't have it in all kinds of places where you supervise, not just in the financial sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u90	We'll discuss the law that governs this. So I'd like to get a bit of a feeling and an impression of how things are going in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u91	Let me then try to answer that in the second term and explain how it works in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u92	And that second term is almost certainly next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u93	Mr President, from now on I will take all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u94	I wish I hadn't told you!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u95	No, Mr. Chairman, I'm almost through. Of course, I've been in a hurry after your encouragements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u96	It's a pleasure for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u97	I had stuck to the legal concept of "socially appropriate." I would like to make a few comments on that. "Socially decent" is not a concept that just comes out of the sky. It's part of the Civil Code. The article on tort, Article 6:162, says, I believe, in paragraph 2 which is an "unrighteous act." This is "a failure to do or to do something contrary to a legal obligation or to what, according to unwritten law, is appropriate in society..." and so on. This means that this social bespokeness is mainly actually filled in. So it actually has a very different connotation in time. In the end, it's up to the judge to fill it out. This particular subject has a very extensive legal history, because it is, of course, a very central piece of teaching from the BW. The Chamber would like to interpret this strictly. I think that is what Mrs Leijten and Mr Slootweg said. They asked if DNB can't help with that. I think it would be wise for DNB to draw up policy rules that show how DNB tests whether trust offices adequately implement that social benevolence. I'll put that on the list too, but I think it's already the intention of DNB. It is inherent in the way in which this is stated in the Civil Code that this social benevolence is interpreted in some way by a judge. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Leijten said that the Chamber of Commerce does not have the registration in order. I'm paraphrasing here. She's asking how we're gonna do that. Can I put it that way? That is a subject that affects the responsibilities of my colleague from EZK. My impression is that the registration by the KvK is not so bad, but I really say that from some distance. Once every three years, the Chamber of Commerce has an independent auditor investigate the accuracy of the data in the Trade Register. We have just checked this: the most recent check showed that 99.7% of these data were correct. That's not 100%, but it's not a very bad score either, you'd think at first glance. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Paternotte asked me, and then we are really past the bill, whether this bill is helping to prevent the provision of services to controversial customers. He referred to an article in Trouw and also in the FD about ABN AMRO. This bill is, of course, limited to setting strict rules for the trust sector. Those articles go to my observation mainly about banks. This is not the subject of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u98	I didn't actually ask whether this bill would help exactly that situation, because I am aware that it was at a bank. My question was whether the Minister also had contact with ING and I am sure that ING Netherlands did not play any part in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u99	In the last conversation I had with ING, that was not the issue, but that was, if I am not mistaken, before the article was published. Mr Paternotte is, of course, particularly interested in whether I have had contact with him in a constitutional sense. I'll have to check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u100	Bit premature!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u101	That brings me to a serious question from Mrs Leijten. She asked me about the murder of the journalist in Malta. That is a subject that they have often questioned me about, and that is also very understandable. She has asked me about this more often and I have tried to answer it many times already that it is right that this too has received a lot of attention in the Netherlands, that the investigation into this murder is ongoing and that arrests have been made. The European Commission has indicated that it is monitoring the process carefully and that it is prepared to take action if there are grounds for doing so. The Commissioner responsible also visited Malta on 13 and 14 June to convey this information. As a cabinet, we welcome this commitment. We are also following developments closely, but I do not think I can say much more about it than I am saying about it now and what I said about Mrs Leijten's questions during at least two earlier AO's. But I understand very well what inspired her to ask that question. This brings me to the leader of the electoral corps, who has tabled an amendment together with Mr Paternotte. I can well imagine the inspiration behind that amendment. What Mr Nijboer and Mr Paternotte actually say is: a year is little, because what should you do if it repeats itself a number of times? That had a three strikes and then you're out element, if I'm not mistaken. So you would opt for an indefinite ban. I don't think that's a crazy idea. It is not for nothing that you can also be removed from the tableau in the legal profession, as it is so beautifully called. I would therefore like to leave that amendment to the House's discretion. Mr President, it was not at the speed you had hoped for, but I think it was at a reasonable rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u102	We have another amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u103	You're absolutely right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u104	That's Mrs. Leijten's, and we don't want to argue with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u105	Sure, because I wanted to say something about that too. But I'll just have to look into the chaos that I've made of my papers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u106	We can send you a copy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u107	I'd love to. Well, I think I can do it out of my head, because I've been reading it. What Mrs Leijten really wants there is 100% clarity. I'd love to, too, but it's kind of tricky. I do not know whether there is any procedural scope for this, perhaps because you want to extend this debate to next week, but if Mrs Leijten would like to discuss, with my support, how that amendment could possibly be adapted in order to make it sufficiently practical, then I am happy to do so. There are all kinds of topics in life that I would like 100% security on, but that is difficult. So if it's gonna work, I don't want to promise her. But I'd like to take on the effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u108	In my opinion, it is always good to enter into consultations, because if an amendment is adopted, it must be technically possible. As far as I am concerned, the practical effect of the amendment is that if a trust office is unable to identify who the person concerned is or what the origin or purpose of the money is, it says: we have really done everything possible, but we cannot offer you this service. Of course, we have to make all that right from a legal point of view. But I do care that if you can't establish it, then you have to say to the person who wants that service: sorry, but I can't help you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u109	Perhaps I will find the likelihood of certainty enough and Mrs Leijten will say: but I just want 100%. But that's what we're gonna explore. We may have a second deadline for this. If we do not get there, I will have to discourage the amendment, but I would like to start the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u110	So the amendment will just stay put and we will hear it next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u111	I realize I'm saying this now in injury time, but I don't think I got one answer to a question. We are in favour of internal compliance; let me confirm that. But we can imagine that there are ongoing contracts with external compliance. Wouldn't it make sense if there was some kind of transitional right? Of course, it can't be 100 years, but it might make sense if there is a transitional right to cut it down properly and fulfil your contractual obligations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u112	There is always discussion about transitional rights and respectful effect. I'd be happy to take a look at that. Frankly, I don't know exactly how big that problem is. The suggestion contained in the question is that it is actually a problem. That while we're almost halfway through the law process. We still have the First Chamber to pass. The moment of entrance is still quite far away. It is only a problem if these contracts often go through for years and would then cause parties problems. I'm not sure. I should find out. So I shall come back to that. But if so, of course, that is not the intention, I say in the direction of Mr Slootweg. Whether we introduce something like a transitional right or if there is another way to solve it practically, we should try to come up with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u113	Very good. So far. Mrs Leijten has something else to say. Short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u114	The Minister invited me to explain in the second term why I think it would be practical that, when we have the debate on the report of the parliamentary interrogation committee, we support this bill or perhaps finish it, because we now have a cut after the first term. When I look at the bill, I see that all kinds of provisions still have to be filled in and entered into later. The Minister and De Nederlandsche Bank are already preparing. Of course, they can continue with that. However, after the debate on the report of the parliamentary interrogation committee, it gives us the opportunity to settle things more quickly through these laws, without the need for a new legislative process. That is the practical solution I see behind it. I am not concerned that this is a wrong law or that I want to delay it, but rather we thought that we would deal with this bill after the debate on the report and the conclusions of the parliamentary interrogation committee. Practically, it wouldn't be a big deal. But then I'll look more at you, Mr. Chairman, and the support. After all, next week is a very busy week. This was my reason to say: continue preparing for the implementation of all kinds of articles of law. I don't think it's crazy to say that, because it's also a framework law. There's a lot more to be done. Let us then ensure that we vote on this in mid-September.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u115	Mr President, may I respond briefly? 'Cause I think it's part of this term, too. I really understand what Mrs Leijten is saying, but it is also a somewhat selective appreciation of the added value of delay or acceleration. I think we are also saying to each other: this is a legislative proposal that the sector needs very much. There are a large number of issues that the sector desperately needs and which are going to ensure a better, more honest trust sector in the Netherlands. Well, that does make me a little impatient. I didn't say for nothing in the first term: the better is the enemy of the good. I would also like to say to the Chamber that I would like to take that into account, also because I think there are still plenty of opportunities, that this song is far from finished and that we also have other possibilities to tighten up legislation or make up other things. So I have a preference for speed, but I think it is not up to me, but to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u116	Exactly. This song isn't over yet, you say, and new tenors are already reporting to the interrupting microphone. It is quite simple: of course we appreciate the Minister's opinion, but it is simply up to the Chamber to set its own agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u117	C'est ça.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u118	Perhaps I have made an advance on what the gentlemen want to sing. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u119	Mr. Chairman. Actually, I'd like to be of assistance to the chairman. Next week the agenda will be overcrowded. It is not terribly urgent, and in addition to that, Mrs Leijten has a preference for it, I also have one to give priority to the debate on the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Fiscal Constructions, which is now planned in pencil in the first or second week after the recess. Then we can get things involved. It'll make the law better. So, all in all, I'm inclined to follow that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u120	It's gonna be a little bit of an order debate, I see. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u121	Mr. Chairman. I note that the vast majority of this Chamber sees this law as an improvement, and I think it makes sense to use it sooner than later. So my preference would be to schedule a half-hour for the second term next week, before or after the Spring Note. It should be possible. Then we could complete the legal process now. I have no fundamental objections to Mr Nijboer's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u122	But you want to do it before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u123	Mr. Chairman. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u124	At Mr Paternotte's.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u125	Yes. With an explicit preference to do it Tuesday or Wednesday, because then we still have a little rest. If it's Thursday, between those 27 VAOs in...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u126	No, it's gonna be a hell day anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u127	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u128	It's clear what you think. Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u129	I support Mr Van der Linde's and Mr Paternotte's plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u130	I note, then, that there is no majority in favour of lifting it over the recess as the Member of the Party of European Socialists wishes. So we're just gonna do that second term sometime next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u131	Mr President, by the way, I am also very much available now, of course, for the second term, but you are dealing with the agenda and the order of business. So I understand that's not possible right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u132	Well, it would be possible, but then... I'm gonna take a look at the left and see that there's a no. So no, it's not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u133	I always settle, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u134	The other way around, there was no majority either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u135	No, but I am assuming the proposal and the proposal has not been accepted. So I will end this debate and wish you a pleasant weekend so that you can think about how the second term will go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u136	That weekend hasn't started yet, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u137	No, but that's the time when we can think a little bit more. Thank you to the Minister for his presence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-27-tweedekamer-9.u138	We prefer to schedule Tuesday or Wednesday part two of this debate. We shall suspend for a few minutes and then proceed with the next debate.
