ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-5.u1	Then we will go to the last question, namely that of Mr Grashoff to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, whom I welcome, about the new EU proposal: a new derogation for two years. Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks knows exactly what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-5.u2	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Derogation. What are we talking about? Even the President of this Chamber does not have that understanding ready, and I do not blame her for that. We are talking here about the derogation position, because that is actually the literal translation of the Dutch translation, which has more manure on land than has been agreed at European level. The Netherlands is one of the few Member States that has such an exception, especially at this level. But more manure can easily cause more pollution of our water and our nature. It could threaten our biodiversity. And that is not allowed, not even by the EU, nor by our own law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-5.u3	I must interrupt you for a moment, because it is very noisy in the room. It would be nice if Mr Grashoff could ask the last question and a little bit of listening to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The European Commission has therefore rightly attached firm conditions to the granting of this new derogation, the derogation, all the more so because we are dealing with serious manure fraud in the Netherlands. Manure fraud means spreading more manure on land than is allowed. So we are allowed to drive out more manure legally, but it is often illegal to drive out even more manure. That is very bad for our water quality and our environment. That is why I have the following questions to this Minister. Is the Minister aware that this decision by the European Commission is actually the last chance that Europe gives us to maintain the derogation and finally to tackle manure fraud properly and thoroughly? What is the Minister going to do in concrete terms? Are there any more inspectors coming? How much? When? Will there be more instruments and more powers for the Dutch Food and War Authority, the enforcing authority? How is the Minister going to investigate the extent of manure fraud, as the European Commission is now asking of it? Is that research being carried out independently? Finally, what additional measures will be taken to combat fraud in the storage, processing and transport of manure? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-5.u5	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday I informed your Chamber that the Netherlands had been informed by the European Commission that we were adopting a derogation decision, which is a somewhat complicated word, that we were granted an exemption decision for manure for a period of two years. This is a draft decision. I would like to stress this because, according to the procedure, this draft decision still has to be taken by the Nitrate Committee. The Nitrate Committee has not yet met and this is therefore not yet a decision adopted. In this context, I would like to answer these questions, because this also means that we have to wait and see what the final decision will be. It is true that the draft decision states that the Commission expects the Netherlands to take action to prevent manure fraud in a number of respects. That is also a subject of the discussion I have had with the Commission. We have had rather intrusive discussions about this, also to see how we can take the steps that the Commission is asking for. I'm already taking part of those steps. I informed the Chamber about this in the autumn. We are going to make a more territorial commitment to enforcement. We have drawn up a plan with the sector for the certification and reduction of the possibilities for fraud. These are all matters that the Commission believes we should do, and that is what we are already doing to a large extent. In addition, the Commission says that we should also present an enforcement strategy in September 2018. I do not think it is the time to go into detail about what we are going to do, also because it is still a draft decision and we will take certain steps. But we will certainly look at what is still necessary and possible, for example. In this context, I would like to emphasise one point that we have fought hard for. The enforcement rates that now had to go to the derogation went from 7% to 5%, allowing us to use this enforcement capacity to tackle manure fraud. This is a very concrete measure for which we ourselves have been working. I am pleased that the Commission has indicated: yes, that is where you must enforce it, and it is good that more opportunities are available for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-5.u7	Tackling manure fraud very firmly is a point repeatedly raised by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. To date, the Minister has always been reluctant to respond to this. She said: I'm actually doing enough or almost enough. Now I hear from the Minister that there needs to be a strengthened enforcement strategy. I would like to hear from the Minister in greater detail what measures it has in mind and how it intends to impose the burden of proof, which is now very clearly the responsibility of the Dutch authorities to ensure that manure fraud is reduced to a very small percentage within two years and that it can make that clear to the European Commission. This includes research elements so that we know much better what this manure fraud is like. I believe that the Minister has so far given a somewhat evasive answer on these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-5.u8	Mr Grashoff suggests that we are not doing anything now to prevent manure fraud. I'll fight that. In fact, I have already had many debates with the Chamber on what we are all doing and what we intend to do to tackle manure fraud. I share Mr Grashoff's view that we must ensure that we comply with the rules we have laid down. That is why I am also working, for example, to focus more specifically on enforcement in Brabant. I have said this several times to Mr Grashoff. We do not only do this with the NVWA; we also do this with the environmental services in Brabant. These routes have been set in motion and are now being given much more direction. In addition, I will also look at, for example, how our system of fines works. I asked the Audit Service to look at how the level of fines and the system of fines for manure relate to, for example, other policy areas and their gravity. These are all very targeted actions, which we are also trying to tighten up what steps can be taken there. But quite a few steps are already being taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-5.u9	Secondly, the Minister is a little more specific in her reply. I am disappointed, because I believe that this minister has a hell of a job to continue to convince Europe that a derogation is rightly granted to the Netherlands. I had hoped that this Minister would have taken advantage of this moment in the run-up to the Nitrates Committee of, if I am right, 4 April, and that is very soon to make a convincing move here in the area of tackling manure fraud, but I still do not hear this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-5.u10	Whether or not there is a derogation at stake, that manure fraud in the Netherlands is unacceptable. The Chamber has already asked the Minister to come forward with strong enforcement. The minister said that the sector would come up with a plan. Then the plan was there and then the NVWA said: well, we don't think it's very sad, so not specific, not realistic, not measurable, not acceptable, and it doesn't take away the incentive to fraud. Is the Minister prepared to make a strong effort now to remove the incentive to fraud? So that also means that you have to keep to the numbers of animals and that you have to look at how many animals still can, given the huge manure surpluses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-5.u11	Enforcement takes place in different places. That is not only about how much manure you have, but also about how it is with the transporters, for example. I also dispute the view that nothing is happening at all. A carrier was recently dealt with when it appeared that he had committed an offence. That has been a very targeted action, including with the public prosecutor, with quite a few trucks seized. This shows that when something turns out to be wrong, it is also being addressed. That is precisely what we are doing. At the same time, I have indicated that we have advocated that the Commission should be allowed to make more enforcement available in order to tackle this manure fraud. That's a promise. We're also still trying to see if the fine system is in order. We also have a plan of action with the sector. All elements in which we are actually trying to close the net around that manure fraud much more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-5.u12	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-5.u13	Yeah, but the NVWA didn't point out that fraud incentive for nothing. That's nothing new, is it? There are signs that there are so many animals in the Netherlands that the overproduction of manure is by definition a very strong incentive to fraud. The NVWA pointed that out again in response to the plans already made by the Minister. Is she now prepared to include that in her strategy? Is that what the Nitrate Committee is going to ask of her?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-5.u14	I think it is very special that Mrs Ouwehand already knows what the Nitrates Committee is going to ask of me before a decision has been made by the Nitrates Committee at all. So I want to stress that. Let us wait and see what the whole procedure is and where it ends. This is a draft decision and we must also have a final decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-5.u15	It is, of course, also good news because this way you can exert a lot of pressure for two years to deal with fraud. There's still a chance. The Minister will present long-term views on the future of the Dutch agro-sector this summer. Does the Minister also see an opportunity to better align the next derogation with the situation in the Netherlands and also with the long-term visions it is about to draw up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-5.u16	I would like to stress that we did get the derogation decision. It is true that a number of conditions have been laid down. I have had intrusive discussions with the Commission on this. They have indicated that we must ensure that the enforcement of manure fraud is properly organised. That's what we're working on. The sector clearly has a role to play in this. But I would also like to point out that derogation can be good for the environment. There is always a very negative scenario here, but derogation can also ensure that there is more grassland. More grassland compared to, for example, maize land means less leaching, which in turn improves water quality. So I think we should look at what policy is at this point in a balanced way. First of all, we need to make sure that we get the derogation on this point all the way around. Then we will have discussions about what it all means for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you. Last question, Mr. De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-5.u18	The latter seems to me to be very desirable. Then we have to think about the next derogation in time, but the good thing is that it falls into your period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-5.u19	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-27-tweedekamer-5.u20	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time. We're about to vote.
