ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u1	I'm reopening the meeting. A warm welcome to the Minister. It is now about the VAO Prison Service, with Mr Van Nispen of the SP as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u2	We ask incredibly much of the prison staff. Work pressure is high and safety is under pressure. Again we have to talk about closing prisons while there is still so much to improve in the search. Also for other reasons, prison closures are not necessary and not desirable. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government intends to close four prisons, which is highly resisted by the regions and staff;]] [[Whereas the use of multi-person cells has ever been introduced because of a shortage of cells but there is no longer a shortage;]] [[considers that it would improve the security of prison staff when prisoners are placed in a single cell;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the use of multiple-person cells to zero and to transfer prisoners in such a way that the closures of at least the Almere and Zwaag penitentiary facilities can be prevented,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas prison staff, municipalities and provinces have serious doubts about the diligence of the procedure to close due to the high rate of closure, even before the actual decision has been taken;]] [[considers that the real crime and the effects of the promised improvements in the criminal justice chain should first be investigated before the closure of prisons;]] [[considers that the impact on the regional safety chain and the impact on the regions and staff has not been adequately assessed;]] [[calls on the Government to postpone the decision on reducing prison capacity and not to take irreversible steps before the abovementioned investigations have been carried out,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Nispen, Buitenweg and Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24587-726]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Nispen, Buitenweg, Kuiken and Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24587-727]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. We are still being informed today by prison staff that a great deal is going wrong in this process of closures, transfers of prisoners and transfers of personnel. It's chaotic, it looks like rush work. I have a whole series of questions about that. But what I feared was that speaking time was too short, and it is too serious. I am going to put in written questions about this, because there is far too much going wrong now. Safety is under pressure and it cannot be; that is unacceptable. The only question I have left in the last few seconds is how the Minister is going to monitor this now, over the next few days and over the next few weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mrs. Kuik has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u5	It is very relevant what Mr Van Nispen has to say, but how would he like to check how the minister is going to take the follow-up steps and also how he was going to make the conversation with Mr Zwaag and Mr Almere, among other things? I would like a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u6	That's a fair question from Mrs. Chicken. I understand the Minister has been in both establishments. I'd like to hear more about that from him, especially how he thinks he's going to do it himself. What I think is a problem is that institutions that are about to close are suddenly going to have to take in new prisoners. Staff have to move to other establishments, but there is again insufficient time to get into work. I hear that kind of noise right now and I find that very disturbing. It's the Minister's responsibility. It has decided, as far as I am concerned, to act in an irresponsible manner, with haste to proceed with these closures. It is the responsibility of us to reverse the implementation of that decision, which is why I have tabled motions to monitor them as closely as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u7	I agree with that, I conclude. I hope the Minister will respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u8	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. Mrs Buitenweg van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you, Madam President. I fully endorse what Mr Van Nispen said. It was a complicated general consultation, because very large decisions have been taken. Four prisons are closed. There was little substantive justification of what was the result. What we have seen in recent weeks is that the decision has actually taken place and that prisoners are already being moved, but in a very chaotic way. That's what we hear from the prison staff on the scene. Once again, so many people would leave and then so many people. There are even rumors that not every prison is properly equipped. So I'm really incredibly worried that this isn't going in a good and structured way. In addition, I believe that there are quite different problems in prisons, such as the workload and the shortage of staff, which this minister does not really address sufficiently. In short, we really have serious concerns about the Minister's lack of prison vision. I have two motions in addition to what Mr Van Nispen has already done. The first serving with him is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet intends to close four penitentiary establishments;]] [[Whereas there is no substantive justification for the choice made, as well as an analysis of the impact on the fight against recurrence and the enhancement of re-socialisation opportunities;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber before 1 November of the effects of closing these prisons for, inter alia, ensuring the proper care and security of detainees, and for promoting the best possible return of ex-convicts to society,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Buitenweg and Mr Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24587-728]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u10	My second motion is with Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is to the benefit of society's security that prisoners are given the right care, guidance and security;]] [[Whereas in recent years sufficient capacity has not always been available in penitentiary psychiatric centres, PPPs, resulting in additional pressure on the Extra Care Services, EZVs;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how many extra beds are needed in PCs and EZVs if anyone who needs them can be placed there immediately, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Buitenweg and Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24587-729]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u11	Finally, Mr President. I'm rounding up. Especially in Almere we see that the prison was actually part of the entire security chain. It is still unclear in Almere what the consequences are for that safety chain. That is absolutely not in order. It is important that we really take this closure much more staged. I hope that the Minister will consult with local government to make this really better than it is at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u12	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. Then Mr Grotehuizen, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u13	Thank you, Mr President. We had a very good and extensive debate on the prison system a few weeks ago. I would like to stress once again that D66 is very positive about the vision of prisons: doing justice and offering opportunities. Indeed, investing in people has been prevented from happening again. If people go wrong, it's a punishment. Sometimes that's a prison sentence if it's a serious crime, but most people come out over time. Then it is important to ensure that they do not return to that prison. As far as I am concerned, the vision contributes significantly to this. I'm very happy about it. Mr. Chairman. I think it is a good thing that we are finally getting a clear picture of the emptiness in prisons and what prisons are going to be closed down. It is real that there is and continues to be this void despite the investment in detection and prosecution. This vacancy, which has lasted quite a few years, has created a lot of uncertainty in regions, but also among DJI staff. Of course, it is a painful decision for the cities and regions concerned. I understand that very well. That is why I would like to ask the Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, once again to make an effort in the cabinet to ensure that this pain does not become unnecessary. Take a good look at the effects of the closure in the region. And make sure, if I may quote Mrs Van Toorenburg's words, that "there are no buildings right away in places where the pigeons fly through and where municipalities only suffer a lot." I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u14	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u15	Madam President. Here's a happy person, because the minister was positive about hiring seniors as prison guardian. He was so positive that he said he didn't have the luxury of just choosing seniors. My group has asked written questions about the exact age structure of the 800 new employees. Thanks for the quick answer. However, the answer gives a much less positive picture: only 10% are 50 years of age or older. In view of the difficult position of unemployed senior citizens in the labour market and the fact that they appear to be good prison guards, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a shortage of staff in prisons;]] [[Whereas seniors have proven to be excellent prison guards;]] [[Whereas older unemployed people still find it particularly difficult to find a job;]] [[calls on the government to actively recruit older unemployed and to retrain them to be inmate keepers to end the staff shortage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24587-730]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u16	We asked the Minister to introduce a full-time work week for inmates. In our view, this is also an excellent way of re-socialising and not falling into crime again. The minister said he was going to experiment with a 32-hour week. That is good, but I would like to invite the Minister to further strengthen the objective for the longer term. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas participation in the work process during detention provides a structure in the daily rhythm which concretely contributes to successful reintegration into society after the detention period;]] [[Whereas the faster a prisoner finds work after his detention, the less likely he is to fall back into crime;]] [[calls on the Government to work towards a standard full-time working week for detainees, which may benefit from exemptions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24587-731]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u17	Then thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u18	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I call Mrs Van Toorenburg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was a useful general consultation that rightly received a great deal of attention because there was a not small decision on the agenda: the closure of prisons. Even if this did not lead to redundancies, it has consequences for staff and prisoners. Closed in the regions has been prevented and the choice for this establishment has made it possible for people to stay at work. There is work for them and nearby. It is important to clarify quickly what is going on. It is also important that people quickly notice that they are investing in them, that there is no money going to empty cells, but to staff. By recruiting new people and providing training, the safety of the facilities must also be improved. We are anxiously awaiting further developments in the Minister's vision. Mr. Chairman. During the general consultation the Minister had not yet visited the institutions. It's a good thing that's happened by now. Can the Minister promise us that he will remain in real contact, including with the unions and with wider participation, with a view to ensuring that there is some peace among the staff of the prison system involved? The local government, too, Mr Groothuizen rightly referred to it as a partner of this minister. It is, as has been said, a decision with many consequences. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government has decided to close down four penitentiary establishments;]] [[Whereas the imminent closure has caused concern in the establishments concerned;]] [[Considering that job security has been promised and therefore that all personnel will be placed;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber as soon as possible of the results of this round of placement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Toorenburg, Groothuizen, Van der Graaf and Van Oosten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24587-732]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u20	We are not going to repeat the debate, because I would have asked another question, but I do have an informative question about this motion. Does this motion specifically ask for figures, which the Minister says in a few weeks' time: has all the staff been relocated? Or does this motion also say above all: look at travel distance, look at people getting up at 5:00 today, because they suddenly have to go to the PI at Schiphol? For example, is this motion also about what the staff are up against now? Is there enough time to get people into that new place? Is there enough staff to provide these training courses? Does all this have to do with this motion or is it purely numerical?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u21	It's more than numerical. In earlier general discussions we also discussed this. It's been some time since prisons closed. At that time it was also an agreement that people would be placed well and quickly, but it became a agony. It became a agony, because everyone opposed each other. We built into that together with the SP. We don't want to let that happen again. So that's the signal I'd like to give the Minister. I would like to use Mr Van Nispen's interruption for that. We're not interested in hearing in detail who needs to get out of bed sooner or who doesn't. I think it's also important that when we have facilities where teams work, it can't be that you say: it's annoying, someone has to travel a little longer, and your colleague doesn't show up for work until an hour later. You can't. Eventually, we've got a mental institution to run. The staff will have to work there. The prisoners must be properly dealt with there. That's in everyone's best interest. So we need to see how we're gonna do that, to keep people from overloading.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u22	Mr. Van Nispen, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u23	How does Mrs Van Toorenburg feel that the Minister should monitor this and how often should he inform the Chamber about it? I have just finished by saying that I received reports today and yesterday that a lot of things are not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u24	Exactly. That is why it is important that the Minister informs us about this. At first I did think: shall we do so periodically? But onward insight has taught me that the Minister has worked very hard on this. So we can just ask for a final result and not so much need to be taken at hand every time. It just needs to be arranged quickly now, so everyone has a decent placement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u25	Thank you. Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u26	Thank you, Madam President. During the AO it became clear that we had many important topics to discuss. The government's decision to close four establishments is a decision you cannot take lightly. We understand very well that this has a major impact on the people who work there. Mr. Chairman. For the Christian Union, it is important that no facilities in the region are closed down and that everyone remains employed. We understand that there are still concerns. That is why we believe it is important to sign the motion that the CDA has just tabled. We have to follow it carefully. The Minister must also be aware of the concerns the staff have. Mr. Chairman. I regularly receive signals that the appropriate care cannot actually be given to prisoners. That concerns us, because that does not contribute to a secure society when prisoners are released. That is why it is good to map out what is actually going on and whether there are enough care spots. Then, Chairman, I come to the vision of doing justice, offering opportunities. This is a view of the prison sentences which, as far as the Christian Union is concerned, is in balance. We are going to make major changes, for example with regard to leave. This must become more personalised and always linked to a reintegration goal. That's good. But in addition to visiting the dentist and arranging a rental contract or work, resocialization is also very important. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in the view of prison sentences, the government has announced that leave should become more personal and should always be linked to a reintegration goal;]] [[calls on the government, in addition to the reintegration targets already included in the prison sentence vision, to consider family visits to work for stable family contact and to programmatic work on the role of education in the family as targets for reintegration, with a view to a safe return to society,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van der Graaf, Van Toorenburg, Groothuizen, Kuik, Van der Staaij, Buitenweg and Van Nispen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24587-733]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u27	Could Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union explain to me what effect she actually means by this motion? What's this supposed to lead to? How often, in the eyes of the Christian Union and in its explanation of this motion, should a prisoner outside of prison be allowed to visit his family? What time does that take place? How broad should this family level be explained? Do you have any thoughts about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u28	We know that it contributes greatly to a safe return to society if prisoners can maintain good contact with their families and if that is a healthy network, because that is not always the case. It is also important for the families themselves, for example if children are involved. Children can not only visit their father or mother in the establishment, but there are also leave options at home, outside the facility. I've been approached by many prison directors. They said: we are really okay with being appointed that this too is a reintegration goal. Of course you have to work on work, your passport and a lease. But resocialisation and return to a family are also important goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u29	I have not yet entered into the discussion with Mrs Van der Graaf at all whether I share this with her. My question was another one. I asked Mrs Van der Graaf if she could explain to me how she explained her motion. What effect and scope does this have? When could this happen? How wide should family ties be? When can you qualify for this? Can Mrs. Van der Graaf specify that for me? That's what I'm curious about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u30	Sure. That's how it works. Within the establishment it is decided whether someone is eligible for the leave. I can imagine that this will be the case when the vision is worked out in the context of reintegration leave. Then it will be looked at appropriately, tailor-made, what is needed, also for the recovery of the family. Working on the restoration of families or healthy networks is an important part of the vision that has now been put in place. I think that's very good. That is what we intend to do with this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u31	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. Mr Van Oosten has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Let me first say a few words about the motion that has just been tabled by the Christian Union on this family visit. In fact, the agenda now contains the vision of the prison system. Indeed, the view on the prison system specifies a number of things about reintegration leave. It indeed points to the desirability of care. Outside the prison, there's got to be room for that. There must also be room for a job interview. Reference is also made to a programme, the Better Start programme, which allows mothers to have a weekly group interview with their adolescent daughter of about one hour in the last three months of detention. I would ask the Minister to confirm that this is also the explanation of the commitment of reintegration leave, even if this is seen on family visits. Otherwise, as far as I am concerned, this is not in line with the Minister's content. I'd like to hear his views on that. Finally, I note that we have received a letter from the Minister concerning the planned closure of four prisons. Mr Grothuizen has already mentioned this, and I would like to emphasise that. That letter also refers to contacts with the Minister of the Interior to consider the re-assignment of these locations. I would like to hear from the Minister what has been done on this point, whether or not in consultation with the State Real Estate and the municipalities in question, and what is to be expected, in particular, from these municipalities in that regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u33	Thank you. Mr Markuszower of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We were able to hear on TV this week that this minister is satisfied. The minister was allowed to negotiate with a terrorist, with Volkert van der Graaf, and was satisfied with the result. This afternoon I read in De Telegraaf that a 13-year-old girl who was abused by her father got pregnant, and that the little brother and mother of the girl were abused. The prison sentence is even lower than the low requirement of eight years, namely six years. So with this minister, if he doesn't start negotiating again, this horrible rapist will be free again after four years. Because of this policy, of course, we have empty cells. Because if we punished harder, the cells would be full of Volkert van der Graafs and raped animals. That is why I call on the Minister to build more prisons and not close them. If you have built more prisons, you can fill them with all those dangerous criminals, so that the streets of the Netherlands are safe. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that this cabinet intends to close the prisons in Zoetermeer, Almere, Zwaag and the detention centre in Zeist;]] [[Whereas there are still over 10,000 convicts out there who are still in prison;]] [[whereas there are more than 40,000 illegals out there;]] [[Whereas penalties are currently being imposed too low for serious offences of violence and sexual orientation;]] [[Considers that the vacant cells should be filled with the more than 10 000 sentenced persons who still have to serve a custodial sentence and that much longer prison sentences should be imposed for serious crimes of violence and sexuality;]] [[calls on the government, with the greatest urgency, to track down and put in prison the more than 10 000 convicted persons who still have to serve a custodial sentence;]] [[also asks the government to keep the prisons in Zoetermeer, Almere, Zwaag and the detention centre in Zeist open,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24587-734]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u35	May I ask Mr Markuszower whether he agrees with me that until Mr Markuszower's ambition has been achieved, it is a shame to keep the prisons now empty. Because that means that the money you spend on it cannot be spent on dealing with safety and reducing recidivism. Those, I believe, are exactly what you stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u36	I always get a little nervous when VVDs start worrying about spending the money well. Because that is of course not in good hands with the VVD in recent years. See also this morning's debate, the General Financial Reviews, on the budget. It talks about the 2.5 billion euros that the VVD is throwing over the bar and is not giving to Dutch people. No, I don't see what you're saying. For the desire is the father of the thought: when those detention centres, those prisons, are closed, there is no incentive, no pressure on the minister to fill the cells. So I think we need to build up so that everyone knows that there are enough cells to track down, condemn and punish all those criminals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u37	Mr Van Oosten, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u38	If Mr Markuszower is concerned about the Minister's efforts to catch fugitive criminals, then Mr Markuszower also knows, if he has read the documents correctly, that after this planned closure there is still a buffer left. A strong buffer of empty cells that can be used precisely for the purpose you want to achieve and which I am also pursuing, and to which we should both appeal to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u39	In my opinion, we have already exchanged figures in the AA. That is why, in the operative part of the motion, I mention the number of 10,000 people who are currently free and sentenced to prison. If you picked up that 10,000 tomorrow, we'd already have a cell shortage. And then we have 40,000 illegals in the Netherlands. They should be put in a cell or turned off. Then we'll have a cell shortage, so the minister's gonna have to build up. So I do not share the figures to which Mr Van Oosten may refer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u40	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Kuik van de PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u41	Mr. Chairman. I don't agree with the decision yet. It's too soon for me. It's going too fast and too careless for me. At the same time, we feel on all sides that the decision has already been taken. So that gives me a bit of an uncomfortable position, and at the same time I have to look forward again. That's why I'm filing a motion to oversee two things. How do we deal with employment? It does indeed play a role, especially in Noord-Holland and in Almere, also in view of previous agreements that have been made. And how do we deal with empty positions? Because a prison that's empty, where for years it's being bullied about who's gonna pay for the costs, and who's gonna take the place, that's totally deadly for a living environment. That's what we're trying to prevent. I would therefore like to ask whether the Minister himself is going to intervene, including in relation to, among other things, the Ministry of the Interior. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government intends to close the PIs Zwaag and Almere;]] [[considers that this affects the regions hard and that every effort should be made to reduce the effects of the closure;]] [[considers that the impact of the closure on employment in the regions should be as limited as possible;]] [[also considers that the locations PI Zwaag and PI Almere should not be left empty;]] [[calls on the Government, in the event of such closures, to accompany such a decision, in consultation with the municipalities, with proposals to maintain employment in the region and a rapid relocation of the buildings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuik, Mr Van Nispen and Mr Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24587-735]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u42	Mr. Chairman. I won't be there for the answer, but I'm going to read back the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. The Minister may reply immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u44	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Then the final motion will pass. Mr. Chairman. We are standing here for the conclusion of a debate that we held on 6 September. I believe that this was a good debate, with two major and important issues: the government's vision of the prison system and the reduction of the excess capacity of the prison system, which we are currently dealing with. This is something that we have been dealing with for a long time, and I have to say that this has led to great uncertainty in the prison system. Last week I went to visit Mr Van Nispen at the PI Zwaag, at the detention centre in Zeist, the family location, in the PI Almere. I must say that it is always special to talk to the people who work there, for two reasons. I went there expecting people to be very worried about their job, and how it would go exactly in the future. And yes, there were those concerns. But I noticed that they were all actually talking about the inmates. What's going to happen to them now? That also shows how involved the people who work at DJI are. I have assured the people there that we are going to do the whole transition, if we go to closure, in a very neat and careful way, both on the staff side, as well as on the prisoner side. Of course there's disappointment. I can see that, too. But I have also felt that the plans that are now before us now give us the clarity that it has long been lacking, and that in the long run this can give us a sense of peace. A number of questions have been asked. Mr Van Nispen said: "I am concerned about that transition. We're getting fluctuating sounds. How's that going?" I don't recognize the image of chaos. I have just noticed that there is a great deal of discussion with the staff about developments, as well as with the works councils and with the unions. I say this in the direction of Mrs Van Toorenburg, who asked for it. The transition is discussed with the director concerned on a biweekly basis. Of course, there are always bottlenecks that you have to solve gradually. I think that's happening very effectively. It is also in my own interest that DJI always informs me about the progress. A whole process has been agreed with staff meetings, with personal letters, with interest registration and with so-called PACs, placement advisory committees. That is a very fair and open process, which we obviously involve staff very well. Everything is aimed at bringing this to a successful conclusion in the coming months. Mr. Chairman. Contacts with local government were also requested. There are also, perhaps in two ways. On the one hand, they're in the safety chain. Mrs Buitenweg asked for that. Let me give you an example. I talked to Franc Weatherwind in Almere. He says: we now have very good ties with our prisons here when it comes to the isd, but that will be different when the isd will be in one place down the road; how do you make sure that that runs even? We made a deal about that. We're gonna pay extra attention to that. If that prison is a little further away, you will, of course, also ensure integration and re-socialisation, for good links with care, should Almere prisoners end up in those isd wards. Another area where we talk to local government is the question: what will happen to the places? We have also looked very closely at employment and the vulnerability of employment in certain places in the Netherlands. That is one of the factors involved in the choice we have made. It's not like when a prison closes, we say, "Now there's another government agency coming back for it." But we do have agreements that municipalities can keep. For example, we have concluded a framework agreement with Almere. It doesn't specifically go into prisons, but we just stick to that. And there are talks about what can be done with the places that are released, with the empty prisons. During the last month, all four municipalities had talks about this, including with the National Real Estate Service. We need to see if you can re-vote them. If you don't, you might have to demolish them and redeveloped them. Of course, the municipality has a very important role to play in this, because it will have zoning technical ideas and have to think along with it. But we are actively involved in this. Then I'd like to move on to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u45	Yes, I understand that, but there is a question from Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u46	Honestly, there are a lot of questions now. Let me first clarify one thing: then the Minister can answer that question. My concerns about the safety chain are not just about where Almerians are placed. It is also about the role that prison played in the security chain, for example in cooperation with the Oostvaarderskliniek and so on. So it is also important that, if that goes away, there is a little more going on than just the closure of a prison. Perhaps the Minister could comment on that. Next, the Minister says: if we close up, which suggests that this does not yet happen, but all kinds of people are already being transferred, then it all goes very carefully. That all sounds very reasonable. That is quite different from the reports I receive from the staff of the various prisons. They literally say: it is different every week; one time we had to transfer so many people, and the other time much less people. That's an image of chaos. How can these people have that? Are they totally wrong about that? Did they get that wrong? What's the Minister's answer to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u47	These are the questions I got when I was there. I'd like to advise you to send these people to the head offices. That's where they have to put those questions. It also looks at the possibility of taking first steps on a voluntary basis. Sometimes staff themselves indicate that things are moving a little too fast and then there is only a moment at the place. But when a pass is made at the place, you sometimes need that capacity again. So you're doing it one step at a time. Sometimes you take two steps forward and you also take a small step back. I understand that there are questions about this, including with the staff, but I have also seen that the people involved in it, such as branch directors and directors of the DJI, who have been released to manage this transition, have a very good story and have very good answers. Then my advice would be: let's get these people around the table and let's get the staff to put their worries there. I've always seen a listening ear with those responsible for the transition. I'm asking my people to reconnect with great regularity, really biweekly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u48	Mrs. Buitenweg, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u49	I see that the Minister is putting the problem above all on the board of the head of the branch. I will read one sentence, and that is all I have to say: everything must be in a hurry, but care is far to be desired. That is what I get back from the staff and then the Minister says: yes, I have made the decision to close, but you cannot make me responsible; go to your prison director. I think that's a little too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u50	I am politically responsible for that. I feel responsible, too, and I'm not running away from that. Of course, I hear the concerns you have heard. Sometimes I hear anger and sometimes it's a mix of things. But I have also seen that the only way to understand and explain why things are going the way they are going is by entering into the conversation in that institution at that level. Of course, the staff will then put on the table arguments that managers say: we should take a little more account of that or we should deal with this more proactively in our information provision. At the same time, I also see that when you tell me why things sometimes go shock-wise or why you sometimes have to slow down because it's just sensible, it leads to understanding with a lot of staff. Such a transition is a huge task, and you must have the flexibility to deviate from the path once in a while during the ride, because it is just better for prisoners and for staff. I do not know how many people are following this debate, but I have seen great involvement in political decision-making as well, and that is why I call on everyone: if you have any questions, call on your leaders. They are really aware of how this whole process is going and we are really prepared to take our responsibility there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u51	Indeed, prison staff are very often not concerned with their own position. The Minister says that it is going carefully, but I would like to make the following point. Because isn't it true that extra prisoners are sometimes placed in establishments that would be closed down? Isn't it true that, for example, PI Lelystad had to create extra home-of-storage sites because Almere wouldn't otherwise be able to flow empty? Isn't it true that employees in a new facility sometimes don't even have time to get into work, because the pressure on the schedules is too high? And is it not true that in the penitentiary establishment Schiphol the right to work simply cannot be realized, because the work rooms are not there, with the result that prisoners are paid for work they do not carry out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u52	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u53	These are all examples where you ask yourself: how is it that there has not been enough thought? Now that the process is so chaotic, isn't it shown that this whole decision is haste?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u54	We are talking about the closure of four institutions, where we have to transfer prisoners safely and responsibly from place A to B, where sometimes the transfer of care is involved, where we have to take care of the personnel component and also take into account the wishes of all those individual staff. At a transition of such magnitude, that is a huge task. I really have the impression that this is happening carefully in the basics. It may not go smoothly from day one everywhere. Mr Van Nispen mentioned a number of examples. I cannot see at the moment whether that is the case, but I really believe in the care with which this process is going through. If there is good communication on the work floor, you can see that at such a transition in the early days it is a bit difficult, that you have to pull it as quickly as possible, but when that is done, there will be a lot of peace and clarity. That is why I want this process to be speeded up. That's why it doesn't take me years. I just want to come to a good conclusion in the coming months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u55	Mr. Van Nispen, finally. I hear a lot of repetition, even after Mrs Buitenweg's interruption. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u56	I don't think it's a question of explanation if you shut down a facility like the Penitentiary Institution with all kinds of work rooms, including training opportunities for inmates to prevent recidivism, and then place the inmates at Schiphol, where there's no work and where they have to be paid for work that they don't do...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u57	Mr. Van Nispen, your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u58	This is not just a matter of explanation, of something that is not going very well for a while...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u59	We're not gonna do the debate about this. I think the Minister has been very comprehensive in his response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u60	We disagree on that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u61	Yes. The Minister has come to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u62	Yes, first of all the motion in part No. 726 on multiple cells. I would stress that multi-person cells are truly a full-fledged form of detention. That's been confirmed by the Justice and Security Inspectorate. The effort is therefore always very well balanced. Among other things, it looks at mental problems, the degree of addiction, medical contraindications. Inmates exhibiting aggressive behavior are not placed in an MPC. In the Netherlands, multi-person cells are mainly used for arresters and foreigners who are relatively short stays. Then, of course, it must be done safely and responsibly, so that additional staff will always be deployed. Multi-person cells offer the ability to handle capacity flexibly and ensure greater efficiency. At the moment, we see that the percentage of inmates in a multi-person cell is about 20%. As a result of these plans it may increase a little. On the basis of the current influx, we expect an increase of about 25%. In addition, of course, we have a lot of buffer capacity: 2,100 cells. These are largely second beds in cells that are not currently used. So we have a lot more mpc capacity than we really do at the moment. I'm dissuading the motion. The motion in part No. 727 I also advise, because I think it is important that there should be speedy clarification. Then the motion to part No. 728, in which I am asked to inform the Chamber before 1 November. I do not recommend it, because I think it is too early to offer a good overall picture. The transition must be carried out carefully and closely monitored internally. On completion, I will return to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u63	Mrs Buitenweg has a question about this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u64	I'm assuming such an analysis was made before you close anything. You think in advance of what the effects on care for prisoners are. I understand from the Minister that there is no such analysis. Well, that kind of underpins my point. Mustard after dinner is better than nothing. I propose that 'before 1 November' be replaced in my motion by a date which the Minister is more pleased with, for example, 1 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u65	I think I can report to the Chamber around or before 1 March on how we have gone through this whole transition and what that has meant for the staff, but also, of course, for the prisoners. But I believe that I have already promised to do so; the motion would be superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u66	Here's exactly what I'd like. If I change the date, I hope for a positive pre-opinion from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u67	What's your answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u68	I'm just reading the motion. Yeah, it doesn't seem like a problem to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u69	If Mrs Buitenweg amends her motion in this way, as has just been exchanged with the Minister, then the motion may be in part No. 728 Judgment Room?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u70	Yes, judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u71	The motion in part No. 729.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u72	Then the motion to part No. 729. That too is an important point. If that means that we are looking within the capacity which part we need, for example, for those additional care facilities for the PCs, I think that is very relevant. You can see it'll change a little bit. Especially when it comes to PCs, there's pressure on it. I'll make sure the people at DJI make a very thorough analysis of the necessary capacity. I can take over the motion in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u73	Is there any objection to the adoption of this motion? The motion in part No. 729 is no longer part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u74	The motion in part No. Mr Krol's 730 to actively recruit a very specific target group I am not going to recommend. This is mainly due to the fact that we do not select or recruit specific age groups. We're recruiting wide. Let me say again: we need all good people, regardless of age. This motion assumes that we would adopt specific age policies. I don't think we should want that. The motion in part No. 731 I also advise against. We have already stated in the vision that we want to do more with work. Mr Krol actually says: I want to go one step further. I'm gonna stick to seeing what we can do first. I also think it is important to free up and keep time in prison for other things than labour. You also need to be active in arranging a number of other things for when prisoners are released. There has to be time for that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u75	On the motion in part No. 731 Does Mr Van Nispen have a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u76	Yes. The Minister says: we want to do more with work. When will the situation be such that there is simply work for all prisoners?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u77	Our starting point is that prisoners are, in principle, eligible for employment. That's now, depending on the regime you're in, 20 hours, I believe. And when you're in the plus regime, it gets a little more. I'd like to add that. That's the idea in the vision. I hope to get a little more enthusiasm for that. Let's see if we can expand that. The proposal is to do so in three p.i.Let's start by seeing what that requires and whether we can turn it in a good way and see if we can get to meaningful work. I myself would be in favour of people learning something new that they will have after their detention. So that's where we're taking meaningful steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u78	The SP has always made proposals towards more meaningful work, but this does not coincide with the Minister's decision to place more prisoners in PI Schiphol, where, on the contrary, no work is possible because of the physical buildings and the lack of work rooms. Then what's the explanation for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u79	I really should check that out. I don't quite recognize that image, but if there's your concern... I believe that all prisoners should have the opportunity to take part in work. Sometimes it is a little different in a house of custody and for a very short time it is also something else. At least I'll check your care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u80	Then we're at motion seven in part number. 732.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u81	Motion seven. I just indicated that I can live well with the motion in part no. 732. I can take over that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u82	The proposal is that the motion should be put to the vote at the next voting time. 732 to be taken over. Does one of the spokesmen object to this? That's not the case and then makes... There's a problem with that, isn't there? Mrs. Van Toorenburg?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u83	I think it is an important signal to the staff that the Chamber is taking up its position and I would therefore like to vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u84	No objection, Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 733. There was a small debate between some of the spokesmen of the political groups. Maybe I can give it to you in a minute. What I think is important is that we say in the vision that we want to get rid of free leave and that it should be more structured and targeted. A number of examples of this are given in the vision. I believe that Mr Van Oosten mentioned them. One of them is contact that you want to promote, for example between parent and child. That's also a protective factor. We simply see that recidivism becomes less when that band is strong and remains. So that can be a very good goal of reintegration leave, of this new form of leave. That is how I interpret the motion before us. If I can interpret him like that, I can give him a room for judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u85	I don't understand. The Minister refers to the list I gave myself. So that's that better start, where mothers are given the opportunity to talk to their adolescent daughter once a week in the last three months of detention. If that is the Minister's interpretation, then surely this motion is completely superfluous and should the Minister simply discourage him? 'Cause what does it add? If the Minister says he sees more space than he has described in that vision, it may be Chamber of Justice. Only then I'll give you what it's worth along this road that I'm against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u86	That is, of course, entirely up to Mr Van Oosten. A specific project is mentioned. This concerns mothers, but there are also many fathers in our prisons, for whom contact with children would also be very good if that bond is strong and they take on a responsible role in the care of the children. I believe that will be re-arrested if, after a long sentence, you really make that a goal. The involvement in the school is thus stimulated and increased. Working on an active family life is also more likely to keep someone on the right track. So it fits perfectly into the philosophy of reintegration. Well, that's a little wider than the note says, but I think it's a good interpretation of the movement towards reintegration leave, more structured and more targeted than the non-committal leave at the moment. So I do not see the motion as superfluous and therefore I would like to give the judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u87	However, the Minister has not mentioned the example of Better Start in the view on the prison system for nothing. If I google what better start is, in this case, those are mothers who are allowed to talk to their puberty daughters. As far as I am concerned, these may also be fathers, because I am more concerned with the thought behind them. I do not want the reintegration goal to be interpreted in such a way that it is more time-limited than the example mentioned there. I can understand why you have to bring people who have been in detention for a long time into contact with their child again. But if an example of three months is given at the end of your detention, then I find it very difficult to understand that the Minister seems to be suggesting that he sees more space than is here. I would have liked to have heard the Minister's confirmation that that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u88	The idea of giving an example is that it is an example and that there are other examples that you do not mention in such a note. The idea of the example is that you say of the non-committality of leave... go home for a weekend and enjoy it.... we have to finish. We need to put that leave much more into service of what we actively want to achieve with it. This also fits in with the new reintegration plans: much more focused on the person, much more with concrete goals, and see if they have been achieved and how it has been done, so that you can also evaluate the plans. You can do this, for example, when it comes to arranging benefits or housing. But I think it can also be about getting things back together at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u89	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u90	That's really different than it is now. So I don't want it to stick to the old. If that is where Mr Van Oosten's concern lies, I will take it away immediately. But it is a little wider than that one example of the one project mentioned in that note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u91	The motion in part No. 733 gets judgment, Room. Then the motion to part No. 734.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u92	Mr President, I would advise against that. We've been discussing this for a long time. I find that Mr Markuszower would rather put money in empty cells than in the police, and I prefer to do it the other way around. Then the final motion. I also advise against that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u93	The motion in part No. 735.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u94	Yeah, the motion to part No. 735, which says: do so in consultation with municipalities. The decision is now before us. The cabinet has made the decision. I also hope that politics will now support this decision so that we can then look to the future and take concrete steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u95	Mr Van Nispen on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 735.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u96	Yes, Chairman, partly on behalf of my colleague Kuik. In my view, the Minister does not read the motion as it literally stands, at least not as we intended it. It says, in fact, that if this decision is taken, as far as I am concerned, 'in consultation with the municipalities, with proposals to maintain employment in the region and a rapid redevelopment of the buildings'. So that is different from asking for the decision to close prisons to be taken in consultation with the municipalities, because I believe that the Minister has already taken that decision, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u97	But still... I have just indicated that the fact that we are now closing prisons cannot mean that we will say to a number of municipalities: then we will have another public service here that will preserve employment. We have taken employment as a very important element. We can see that unemployment is declining everywhere at the moment. The choice for these four municipalities is a choice for municipalities that are resilient when it comes to the local labour market. This motion is asking for something else, and I simply cannot promise you that. With regard to the early re-destination, there are, of course, things that are going on with the National Real Estate Company. So that part is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u98	Finally, Madam President, there is, of course, an administrative agreement with Almere. We don't have to take that off the table at once. That's what's there. So that is also important. What the proposal says is that we are now going in consultation with the municipalities to look at maintaining employment. So that's in consultation. That doesn't mean at all: all one-on-one crossing. It does mean, however, that we are doing justice to the governance agreement that is underneath and therefore the signature of the Empire, and that we are going to consult to see what we can do for Almere's employment. It is that open, but it is also such an effort that it does justice to the promise we have made and to the signature that is under the governance agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u99	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u100	But I have already said that we stand for that signature, very clearly. Then this motion doesn't add anything. But this motion is asking for something quite different. She is asking for proposals to be made to preserve employment, and that is a suggestion that I do not think we can make.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u101	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-8.u102	The motions that have been tabled will be put to the vote on Tuesday.
