ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u1	We will continue the debate on the plan to pay disabled people less than the minimum wage. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for all their questions. But certainly also the people who have been extremely involved, now and in the past few days and weeks. Many people have also travelled here to follow this debate in the public gallery. I also see people I've spoken to before. There are also many, as you have already mentioned, who are following this debate at a distance. It bears witness to a tremendous commitment, which I greatly appreciate. We are talking today about a proposal that concerns people who are unable to earn the minimum wage per hour on their own. I have noticed in recent weeks that the proposal we are talking about not only affects the people who it is about, but others also feel addressed. I would therefore like to begin with a brief introduction to explain why we started this and who it is. I shall then answer the questions of the Members of the European Parliament, which also indicate the order in which I shall do so. Mr. Chairman. It started with the observation that more than half of the people with disabilities do not have a job and that it does not always pay to work more hours if you cannot earn the minimum wage on your own, despite the fact that we in the Netherlands have a lot of schemes for people who do not come to work so easily without support. Many policies have always been well-intentioned and, fortunately, more and more employers are helping people with disabilities to find work. There are also a lot of people with disabilities who manage very well themselves. They've discovered what they're good at, they've got opportunities, they've got opportunities to prove themselves. Oh, thank God. There are also people with a disability who need some support: an adapted toilet, a Braille keyboard or a custom excavator to do their job even then. They can simply negotiate wages with their employer, like anyone else. They may still apply for a provision at the municipality or UWV, and have nothing to do with pay dispensation, which we are talking about today. But there are also people who, even if they have a provision, are unable to earn the minimum wage per hour, who do their very best, do good work, but need a lot more time than others or do valuable work which should not be too complicated. They also want work and dignity. That was the background when it was written in the coalition agreement that we would work with pay dispensation in the Participation Act. A technical phrase, which has become more and more people's lives over the last few weeks. No matter how you turn it, it's ultimately employers who hire people. So if we want more people with disabilities to have a chance at work, it helps if we help employers. There has been a great deal of attention in the discussion to the different arrangements that exist. It's gotta be easier. The proposal I am keen to say here is not yet ready, it is not yet a law. I didn't send a law to the Chamber right away, I sent a letter of intent. There's still a lot to work out, because I want more people to be hired. This shouldn't complicate things for the people who it's about. That fear exists. That's where we're at. We have to work with all parties to make it a good law. I will continue to work on this with everyone involved. This is also in response to Mr Peters' question. One of my starting points is that you should notice it in your wallet when you go to work and also when you start working more. That is not always the case now, and in the proposal that lies here it is. Mr. Chairman. Before I come to the questions of the Members of Parliament, I would like to take a moment to consider what has brought about me in recent weeks. We're talking about the value of work here. We're talking about being worthy. Erik Dannenberg, the president of Divosa, really expressed it to me: you can get out of your benefit, but not out of your handicap. That is precisely why I want people to be able to participate, to participate with dignity. I have heard that feeling from everyone who has thought along, and also from those who have thought against, from people with disabilities, from municipalities, from employers, from anyone who feels connected and has given material feedback. I'm grateful everyone wants to think along. I am also going to work to see how we can come up with a law that ensures dignity, within the principles that I consider so important. Those are the next ones. By simplifying, employers need to be able to hire more people with disabilities. People need to mark it directly in their wallet when they get to work. They're gonna have to notice if they're gonna work more. The money saved by simplification must be used to get people into work, within the budgetary frameworks. If it costs more on the one hand, we'll have less on the other. I hear there are concerns about people with a earning partner, about wealth. I shall deal with this later in the answer to the questions. It is not so much about the system of pay dispensation, because that is also in the Wajong. It is about the rules of the welfare regime. I have already mentioned these concerns in the main letter. I've heard a lot of them over the past few weeks, and I've tasted them wide here in the Chamber. I would like to state that I am willing to look at this, because my goal is a fair law, where people take dignity out of it. I would like to say once again specifically that I would like to do this exercise within the current agreements, before going to the specific questions of the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u3	This was the introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u4	Yes. I would like to classify the questions as follows. Questions have been asked about the responses of organisations that participated in the civil society debate and, among other things, the hearing. There are questions relating to the regime, i.e. supplementary benefits, non-contributorys, pensions and administrative burdens. And there is a block other than that, in which I have categorized the sheltered work, and also some questions about monitoring because of the quantity of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u5	I suggest that we get to the heart of this debate right away. We've had a hearing. The Secretary of State also refers to that. All these organizations and all these people are saying: we do not want this pay dispensation. The Secretary of State mentions a number of opponents and participants. They're mostly opponents. The only contender at the moment is the Malie Tower, Hans de Boer. Is the Secretary of State really prepared to listen, to sit down and look at a real alternative, even if that means that it's not called a pay dispensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u6	I have indicated in my introduction what drives me, what is most important to me. That is that more than half of the people who are now sidelined, those with disabilities who are unable to earn the minimum wage per hour on their own, are given the opportunity to go to work. The current instruments we have are not working. Wage subsidy, a highly acclaimed instrument that is very nice for the people who can work with it, only pays off if you can work more than three and a half days a week. I have looked for an instrument that can achieve this objective, within the principles I have signed up to. I found it this way. There are a number of dilemmas to this, which are mainly in the complement. I have also heard it as expressed in the discussion. I would like to use those talks to see whether the concerns expressed in them can be removed in this way. In doing so, I would like to say quite honestly that, of course, we are also using the money that this would generate to help people get to work, and that it has something to do with the other. That space, that care, I've tasted, and I'd like to talk about it. So I want to get a little out of technology, and especially to go to something that works and contributes to the goal of helping people into work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u7	I think this is really false hope. They're fine words, but in the end it means getting out of technology... I'm going with the Secretary of State. We're just getting out of technology, but it's still called pay dispensation. That means lifelong benefit for people. That doesn't mean a collective agreement. That doesn't mean retirement. That doesn't mean WW. And that is precisely the point of principle that this debate is about. More than 80,000 people indicate: we want to participate fully. This means that they also want to receive regular pay from the employer and not from the municipality. That is the principle of the matter. I regret that the Secretary of State is going straight to that pay dispensation. It wants to adapt a number of things, but that is not the criticism from society. That's false hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u8	I believe that we are putting the objectives of what we are doing here at the top of our agenda. That is what I taste in the contributions of the Members of Parliament. I also expressed my gratitude for that. I have also heard a number of questions with which I would like to work very constructively. For me, however, the most important thing is that we are now seeing that more than half of the people with disabilities do not have a job and that the current instruments are therefore inadequate. That's a big assignment for the cabinet and also a very big assignment for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u9	We have just heard in the first term that the coalition is advocating a step in the right direction. This means that the proposal before us is going to be affected. This means, above all, that there is no point in protesting. That is a compliment to all those people who are worried, because they are being listened to in a way. The key question is, of course, whether they are really being listened to, whether they really are getting a pass in place and whether that unequal treatment is being put to an end, as the Human Rights College has pointed out, giving you second and first-class workers. Is the Secretary of State gonna end that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u10	The main note I sent to the Chamber has, I hope, been extremely transparent about the dilemmas of the proposal I have put forward in the Chamber. I can clap out of the school: here and there I have also been told that it is not often that the oppositions from the cabinet are already so extensive on their own proposal. I wanted to do that because I also want to show very frankly what the pros and cons of my proposal are, with the intention of discussing it. Otherwise, I would have sent a law to the Chamber right away. As far as I am concerned, therefore, I would like to say to all those who have participated in the debate, with great thanks, that we are now at the start of the actual process. That is what we need: to talk about a proposal that works, as far as I am concerned, towards achieving the objective. That is what I would like to say in reply to Mr Jasper van Dijk's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u11	That just wasn't an answer. I have not received an answer to the question whether the Secretary of State is going to put an end to this unequal treatment. As far as your objective is concerned, your objective was...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u12	The Secretary of State's objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u13	That's right, Mr. Chairman. The objective was: more jobs, more work. And what does the Central Planning Agency say? There are no extra jobs due to the pay dispensation. Is the Secretary of State prepared to say, if her main objective expires, that we are going to think outside the framework of this policy and that we are really going to be open to alternatives? Because your proposal does not create additional jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u14	I'm putting both questions together. My whole objective is to give people a start on the labour market. In that sense, therefore, the answer is: yes, I certainly want to eliminate this inequality, especially because a lot of people are now at home without a job. That's the point. Employers say that they now have to deal with many different kinds of rules for hiring people with disabilities. Of course, that'll cut wood. There are about 17,000 people employed from the Wajong with pay dispensation. We are dealing with one organization for access to it. That works quite well, but we are dealing with wage costs subsidies that many municipalities shape in different ways. Employers say make it easier for us to hire people. That is a very important motivation, and I would also like to point out that I will repeat it a few times today: making it easier for employers certainly does not mean making it more difficult for employees. In fact, I think today's reactions will also show that we may also be able to take a big step in making things simpler. With regard to the impact on employment, the CPB provides a clear analysis of the part of the measure related to the wage dispensation. The CPB indicates that the quantity of the target group, the number of people in the target group, compared to the total number of people in the labour market is such that you will never be able to see a lot of effects statistically. In addition, the CPB indicates that the sheltered work measure is not included. But I find it very useful to involve what the mathematician says in the further development of the model. I also know that the CPB has responded to GroenLinks' proposal. So I think it is very important to take the test of things into account in the future. But, in summary, there is more to be said about it in the qualitative measurement and in the quantitative measurement than what we have heard about it before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u15	This is also about how many jobs we create. Then I'd like to ask you to look at page 10 of your note. There is also something written about what happens when those extra sheltered workplaces are not needed in terms of need. Just above the heading Flanking policy, it says: "My goal is not to eventually realize 20,000 more sheltered workplaces if that is not necessary." Can I draw the conclusion that this will cut 500 million in savings?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u16	There is a cut in the amount of money that is delivered within a ministry or by a target group, which is returned to the Finance colleague, to the general budget. That is not the case. Here it has been agreed that what this simplification should yield will be used for the overall target group. After all, there are many more people who are on the sidelines. There is a large group who cannot work with a regular employer. We are now discussing the use of the instrument of pay dispensation. Then we talk about people with disabilities who can get to work with a regular employer. But we also know that there are people for whom that is not the case. We would also like to give those people the opportunity to get to work. Then we'll come to sheltered work. In the case of sheltered work, the need is leading. You can ask for that yourself and say: I want to be eligible for sheltered work. If you are eligible, the municipality must deliver. But we want to prevent fewer people from being eligible and that the money is actually floating away. That is why we have said that this money should go to the target group we are talking about, namely people for whom working is not self-evident.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u17	I understand the Secretary of State's reasoning. Whether I'm very happy with that is a second. But I had another point. With regard to the fact that a pass is being made on the spot, I hear your tone and I must say that I like it more than the one in our previous meeting, I think you say: I am going to talk to everyone, because it still has to be worked out. Can I assume, then, that the Secretary of State takes as a starting point that the current working conditions for the people who are now the target group have remained at least the same at the time when she has finished her plan? And can I pay her to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u18	I find a pass at the place difficult, because I have also noticed that there is a great need for clarity. I think we can do different things at the same time. I can work very closely together with the organisations that know and feel involved in the drafting of the law, as was shown in the hearing. I'd like to report that to the Chamber. At the same time, I also point out that I have tried space, and have also sought it myself, to ask a number of further questions. But I don't want us to get into a situation where people have to wait and see. I would therefore like to continue working on the results of this debate. As far as the conditions of employment are concerned, I think it is good to see what situation we are leaving from. There are many different regimes now. It is therefore difficult to say: it must be relative to one or the other. I want to go to a situation where people are given the opportunity to go to work and to do so in a dignified way, where they do not feel that they are the concerns that I have heard a great deal about must meet all kinds of requirements, such as those that apply in the current welfare regime. That's where I'd like to go. But we also have a lot of people in the Netherlands who deserve the wml and are not above the wml in a collective agreement. So I find it difficult to compare it with people who are currently, for example, in wage costs subsidies, if only because there is the collective agreement of the sector in which someone works. There could be different variants in that. As far as I am concerned, we are talking about dignity, opportunities in the labour market and a good regime in which people are given the opportunity to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u19	This will be your second interruption, Mrs. Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u20	To get it sharper, I'd still like to ask one more question. If someone is now working with an employer, your new policy has been introduced and they are getting their second or third contract, then that should go according to the new directives. Can I assume that the employee will continue to keep exactly the same in his wallet under the same conditions of employment as before? That is the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u21	I have indicated in this main note that existing employment relationships are respected. That is the starting point. I will do the further work on the legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u22	The Secretary of State says her motivation is to help people with disabilities to get to work more easily, so more work for these people. On what facts does it base this proposal on? According to GroenLinks, the facts are very clear and this proposal is not going to work for that purpose. What facts does the Secretary of State have?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u23	There are many facts that play a role in the debate. For me, it is of the utmost importance that at the moment there are many employers who say: we want to make a battle and give people with disabilities a place, but it is now very difficult for us. When I look at the facts, I see that at the moment less than 10% of employers employ people with disabilities. They therefore deserve a very great compliment. That means we still have to get 90% of the employers on board. I've had a lot of conversations. If you look in practice at what an employer gets on his plate if he wants to work with someone with a distance from the labour market, that is quite complex. I get the other side, too. When I look with people who want to work with a limitation, I see that it is very complex for them too. Both cases are for me to solve. For example, there are many more facts that play a role. I would like to say right away that I very much appreciate the proposal of GroenLinks, which they have also had passed on to the CPB. I've already gotten a scan of that last night. I will certainly prepare a written response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u24	I'm very happy about that. The Secretary of State states that employers would like to. The employers indeed point out from the left to the right that it is now very difficult. The question, however, is whether this proposal from the cabinet will make this easier, because you are putting a different arrangement aside. So you get more instead of less regulation. The second point is that the Central Planning Office has calculated that this proposal does not lead to additional employment. GroenLinks' proposal is. I therefore welcome the promised written response in this respect. The fact that employers, by definition, want pay dispensation is not correct and that this creates additional jobs is also wrong. The Secretary of State must have her facts in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u25	I've seen that there are several investigations. There are studies on employers working with labour costs subsidies. They are asked whether they are satisfied with the instrument. Most of them say yes. There are also studies among employers who work with pay dispensation. They are also asked whether they are satisfied with this. They say yes, too. If you continue to ask, you will see that if there are problems with wage costs subsidies from employers, this is because many municipalities use different methods. There is work to be done in the current system anyway. I share that with the Members of Parliament who have indicated that. The current proposal to introduce pay dispensation for employers is about a pay dispensation as is the case in the Wajong. That is not a new arrangement, but that is the Wajong scheme, the wage dispensation, also introduced within the Participation Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u26	I actually wanted to suggest that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u27	New point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u28	New point, but the Secretary of State has just made an introduction and she is still addressing three other points. So I actually wanted to suggest that the Secretary of State should move on to the next subject. I hear you still have a general point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u29	I took a good look last night.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u30	That was a bad example. I would not do what the group chairmen have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u31	I certainly will not, because we are still at the general introduction. Mrs Voortman rightly says that we need to talk about the facts. The introduction of wage dispensation means a cut of 500 million compared to today. So we are taking away 500 million from people with disabilities by abolishing wage costs subsidies. Then, of course, it's interesting to see what the 500 million is made of. It's a big part of the fact that you get cut short when you're living with pay dispensation. Because then you'll have a benefit and a partner who deserves more. For the second part, that's because you don't build a pension and you don't build WW rights. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u32	A cut is if you have to redirect the proceeds of the measure back to the general budget. This is not the case here, because the money that this measure provides is intended to help people with a distance from the labour market, with a disability, to work. Having said that, it is true that the change from pay dispensation to wage subsidy costs 500 million. The other way around, this is $500 million. This is largely in the situation of the people who are not entitled to benefits, because they would not be supplemented by the proposal now before them. It is partly also in matters such as employee insurance and pensions. That's correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u33	So it's him in part in the housing situation I haven't heard so clearly and indeed in the pension. Now the Secretary of State says: I am willing, a pass is made in the place. Maybe the Secretary of State won't make it. But she really wants to look at the worries that live. Does this mean that the result could be that the 500 million cut is not being made?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u34	As I indicated in my introduction, I have had a lot of conversations myself. I've heard the concerns. I'm tasting a call from the MPs to look at things. I have made it very clear that I myself am in need of this. I would like to do that, but I would like to point out that this is happening within the principles of what we are doing here. These are also the financial frameworks. That is why I would like to do it quickly. We will have to have a moment to consider this because of the clarity that it requires. I suggest that's with the law. That's why I have to work things out. For that, I need the space first. I'm tasting it here. I think that's important for today. But it may indeed have consequences for the counterpart of this measure, which is to reroute the 500 million to the possibility of sheltered work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u35	Second interruption for you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u36	This is very essential. In my term, I asked the Secretary of State for the following. I mentioned the example of Amber Bindels, of We Stand Up!. The Secretary of State knows her. She says, "If I get married, I'm going to be cut off on my wages." That is when the partner test is applied. She'll just come under minimum wage. That is wage discrimination, with two types of workers, real and half. The choice is clear: will the Secretary of State do so in the direction of those people who want to work with heart and soul and participate, participate in society, or withdraw the proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u37	In answering the questions, including those of Mr Peters, who also asked for them, I would have thought of them later. In the regime, just to throw in a technical term, and in the discussion on how the supplement to the pay dispensation looks, these are the themes that play a role. So that's what you can look at. That is also my proposal. I tasted that in the room, too. Mr Peters has asked. You've asked for it, as have others. But that has implications for the overall task with which we are working here. I want that honesty here, too. That is why I think it would be good to get to work on it and to be very clear about when we have that moment of reflection. Then we can make those decisions. It has consequences for the proceeds of this measure and, therefore, for the number of people we can help with sheltered work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u38	But that's okay at all. The Secretary of State says a lot of words here: it may be that we are going to change the coalition agreement, break open the financial paragraph and that the 500 million cuts will not be made if we do not want to put Amber and many others hard under that minimum wage. That's okay at all. It would be great if you would break the coalition agreement at that point, because people do not want it, because there is no basis for it and because your plan, as there are no jobs, has exploded in the sand. So can we assume that the coalition agreement will be adjusted on this point and that you and many others will not hit Amber hard the moment they get on the wedding boat?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u39	I believe that I have been given a great deal of work in the government agreement, namely making work pay, making it easier for employers to help people with disabilities to get to work. Making this simpler means money that we will then use it to help more people who need it to work. That's my assignment. I have now put forward a proposal for this, first of all on the main lines. I'm tasting room here today to see if we can make improvements to that. I have already indicated that there are a number of dilemmas. That's my assignment. I don't want to change it at all. The fact that we will then discuss a number of issues in their elaboration, as I have seen in several groups, is precisely a very nice way of working with each other. I also feel a lot of involvement with people in the country and with organisations that have sat at the table. In my view, this is precisely what we have been given in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u40	We need to be careful that the discussion doesn't shift. We've been able to see in the last few weeks that people have been waiting for a job for three years. Those are those people who are under the target of 30,000. We can all also see that the current objective is not being met. Now the Secretary of State says that she was sent with a dike of an assignment, the order to create an additional sheltered workplaces on top of those 30,000. This while those first 30,000 workplaces are already not realized. Wouldn't the Secretary of State be able to make it a little easier for himself and thus give people a faster perspective on work, if she were to focus on that first 30,000 and focus on, for example, the people who have been at home for three years, before taking on another major task?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u41	Among other things, Mr De Jong and Mr Bruins have asked how this sheltered work is going. There are indeed large numbers: 30,000 and 20,000. I like to say, until 2050. And we're just getting started and we've made a bit of a false start. Municipalities still had to get a little steamed up. At the end of 2017, more than 1,100 people were working on sheltered work, as shown by the latest UWV figures I have seen. There is much more to be done, but it is worth noting that all the 30,000 people who are predicted to work shelters could not actually work there next year, because we are really talking about a development that goes far in time. So I think it is important to highlight that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u42	But I didn't say that at all. I've been talking about the route to it. The route to it is an objective per year and the annual target is not met. The Secretary of State cannot disagree with that, because it is the facts and figures that we have all been able to study. We now see that this objective is not achieved on the basis of a previous objective per year. Then why does the Secretary of State not say that she is unable to cope with these 20 000 additional places, in addition to the objective she already has, at the moment, and that she is therefore unable to implement the measure that has to be paid EUR 500 million and why does she not focus on the group that needs to be helped now? What stands in the way of the Secretary of State, other than a financial assignment, of doing so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u43	I want to do both. I want to help people who want to work with a regular employer to do that. This is still not happening within the current possibilities we have, such as wage costs subsidies, no matter how beautiful that instrument is. But I also want to help those who cannot work with a regular employer. For example, if you look at what has recently caused us to get a significant increase in the number of people eligible for sheltered work, is that people give the right to go to the UVW themselves and ask for an indication, and then go to the municipality and say: look, I am entitled to this place. This is a very recent measure that we have implemented. That's why I'd like to watch. We've been talking to congregations, and we've also said, "Take that leg back." They've been given time for that for a couple of years. That's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u44	Second interruption, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u45	Indeed, I come to my second interruption, because if the Secretary of State really thinks it is so important to help these people get to work and she does hear from those employers: listen, with this wage subsidy, a good instrument in itself, I would like to continue to work, but it has some bureaucratic bumps, which I would like to take away. Then why doesn't the Secretary of State say, "I'm gonna focus on that?" I am focusing on what is currently in the way of helping people get to work? I say this because it gives the Secretary of State the room to make sure that those people who are now at home and who are now very eager rather than sitting in the public gallery or demonstrating in a square would like to get to work, so get to work now. Again, my question. Wouldn't the Secretary of State want to focus on improving labour costs subsidies and thus take the shortest route to get people to work? And if she doesn't want to, what stands in the way of her, except for the financial assignment in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u46	As far as I am concerned, this debate goes far beyond finance. And I mean public finances. It's about people's finances. Within the current system of wage costs, for example, it only pays from around 28 hours a week to start working. If you can work 28 hours or more, you'll be out of welfare. Until then, you won't get out of it. I'd like to give people the opportunity to notice from the first hour they work in their wallet that they're working. That is a very important consideration in order to move forward quickly with the proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u47	The Secretary of State assumes figures that do not include collective agreements. People who have built up their rights and are now paid above the statutory minimum wage will not be able to do so. Then it may be possible by the hour, according to the system in the paper reality, that someone is making progress, but at the moment when he gets worse in practice with a new contract, we have a reality with which we have to deal. That is why my question to the Secretary of State is: it is obviously about finance, because if it were not about finance, the Secretary of State would listen to employers' objections to helping people with disabilities to work, and then the Secretary of State would focus on solving the problems we are facing today. So my final appeal on this point to the Secretary of State is: please, adjust the wage costs subsidy and help those people who are now on the sidelines instead of giving themselves impossible assignments to make people feel like they're getting into their pockets.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u48	In this respect, I am trying to put forward a proposal which supports several pillars. Yes, it is important to make it simpler for employers to join instruments that they already use in the Wajong. But surely it is also important to make it pay for workers and also to help more people to work with the money that this simplification brings. I was going to start answering the MPs. I had classified them as follows: the questions and reactions of various organisations, everything related to regime and others. I will try to filter out the questions already raised in the event of interruption. In relation to Mrs Voortman, I have already indicated that I will examine the proposal made by GroenLinks, again, and I have an extraordinary appreciation of the constructive contribution made to the debate and will provide a written response. Several Members of Parliament have referred to the contribution of the College of Human Rights to the debate. I have indeed seen that the College of Human Rights has responded to my proposal. I am also very grateful to the College for having looked at this proposal in detail. I have seen that the College supports the cabinet's ambition to help people with disabilities to work. They also mention a number of disadvantages of the proposal, also in the light of, in particular, the UN Convention on People with Disabilities. I have already tried, in the main note, to give a transparent indication of the benefits of the proposal, of the disadvantages and also of what is at the bottom of the line the consideration I have made. The UN Convention for People with Disabilities has also been extensively addressed. At the bottom of the line, I want more people with disabilities to come to work. I have already indicated that I attach great importance to a careful process. I would now like, as we are doing, to have the debate on the main note. If I have been given the opportunity to do so, after this debate, I would very much like to work on a legislative proposal, involving the college's expertise in the drafting of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u49	My question concerns the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. The College indicates that people are being treated unfairly and that this proposal is therefore contrary to the Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. My question is, therefore, on which the Secretary of State bases her proposal that it is in line with that Treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u50	I have left from the observation that at the moment it is for the majority of people with disabilities... It is perhaps a good thing that I also keep in mind for myself that the group of people with disabilities who are unable to earn the minimum wage on their own is now covered by the Participation Act. Most people don't have a job. So about the starting position from which you make comparisons between people, you can have conversations. I'd really like to do that with the college, too. But at the bottom of the line, it is also a consideration that you would like to achieve with a proposal. With this proposal, the cabinet would like to make participation possible. Therefore, I would very much like to exchange views with the college, but this is a part that I am making very heavy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u51	However, the Central Planning Bureau has already noted that this proposal does not lead to more jobs, i.e. more jobs for people with disabilities. The College of Human Rights notes precisely that it violates equal access to the labour market, an important point in the UN Convention. So the purpose, the justification of the Secretary of State for wanting to do so, is already gone. So all you're left with is the unequal treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u52	We have this debate with each other now. We'll see what assignment I'll be working on for the elaboration of a law. That is also the time for me to sit down with the College again to see how the weighting has been made and whether the debate has produced other insights. That is why I think it is important to keep that conversation going. When it comes to the CPB, I would like to say that the CPB specifically indicated that they did not include all the objectives of sheltered work in the calculation of the employment effects. That is a part of the task I have been given from the coalition agreement, as I have repeated a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u53	Your last interruption, Mr. Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u54	It is no different, Mr President, because this is a crucial point. We had a hearing in which the Human Rights College was present. They've prepared a neat note about what's actually going on and what the consequences are for people when you do this. My question was: if you introduce pay dispensation, is there discrimination? The answer was, perhaps more clearly than we heard yesterday from the Prime Minister or from group chairmen: yes. Now I hear the Secretary of State say she has other reasons and considerations, but this is a legal advice. The Human Rights College has tested this and says: you create second-class workers. Then you can stay in conversation, but what do you do with the advice? What do you do with the College of Human Rights, which says "if you do this, it is discrimination"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u55	I am very grateful to the College for the response they have given. I think it is very important to involve the College in the legislative process. At the same time, I try to check with the Chamber the following. We are currently using the instrument of pay dispensation in the Wajong. The discussion and the concerns are also partly about the additional methodology. I have indicated to the Chamber that I would like to look at that. I would also like to talk to the College about whether I would respond to a large number of their objections. So I take that very seriously and continue to do so as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u56	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u57	It is good that the Secretary of State takes the College of Human Rights seriously. I would certainly do that, but there is no political compromise on our human rights. That's what the college says. It is literally said that the moment you put people into a benefit situation from a work situation, and that's what pay dispensation does, you discriminate against a very large group and you say: you're a second-rate employee. That's discrimination. There is therefore no political compromise. I call once again on the Secretary of State: there is no compromise possible on the basis of human rights. Maybe it's in vain, but she might find out later with legal trials.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u58	I'm going back to the origins of why I'm doing this, and that's that more than half of the people with benefits right now aren't working. It's about giving people the opportunity to participate. I would very much like to elaborate on this proposal. That's what I want to talk to the college about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u59	I'm only using the second half of my second interruption, just in case you think I need my third. My question is also about this point, Secretary of State. I wonder how you read the section of the Human Rights College on page 3, where it says that it is the duty of the State to ensure that people with disabilities "are paid no less than the relevant minimum wave." How do you read that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u60	Let me honestly say that this is a very important part of the drafting of the law. The extent to which this is happening also depends on the situation that is emerging. Then I am talking not only about dispensation as an instrument but also about the addition. The proposal I made means that people receive the minimum wage per hour worked. I therefore believe that at least I am making a proposal that meets this requirement. The college thinks it's different. Then I think it would be a good idea to discuss this in the drafting of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u61	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u62	I come to the questions asked about what I call the regime. That term has been used several times, but I am referring to the additional financial flow to the people who are dealing with pay dispensation, so you want the supplementary benefit or the income effects. Mr Raemakers of D66 asked how many people with pay dispensation are making progress in relation to wage subsidies and how many people are falling back on them. Whether someone goes ahead or backwards depends on a person's specific situation. I can make a global assessment, but no more than that at the moment. With the proposal now before us, it immediately pays to go to work and most of the people working part-time are making progress. About three quarters of people working part-time are expected to make progress in relation to wage costs. For the remaining quarter of people working part-time, the situation will remain roughly the same. In a specific individual situation, someone could go backwards. For people working full-time, the situation will remain more or less the same. People who are not entitled to welfare benefits will be reduced in the current proposal. That has to do with the partner test, among other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u63	The Secretary of State is counting on us for people who work full-time to notice little change in income. Does it also include the effects of the reduction in working hours? This will be lower in the case of pay dispensation than in the case of wage costs subsidies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u64	A large proportion of the people involved in pay dispensation are single. That is the current situation of many people in the Participation Act and also in the current assistance. For people who are married, the jump from welfare or benefit to the minimum wage is small. That's often just the employment discount. That goes a little further than the file for which I am city here today, but that also has to do with our entire fiscal and wage building.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u65	This is an issue for me, because it is precisely this job discount that matters. If your income under the wage cost subsidy is seen as full salary and under the new system is seen as part salary and part benefit, then you can no longer make use of your entire employment discount. I would ask the Secretary of State if she would pay particular attention in the details of what the difference in working hours will do when we go to this new system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u66	Within the current proposed system, I will ensure that the reduction to which both partners are entitled when going to work is not checked out on the benefit. I'm willing to see if I can take another look at this in effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u67	I am talking about single people who are working full-time with limited pay. These people work full-time and the employment discount is intended as a tool to stimulate work, but those people can no longer work, because they already work full-time. As a result, they will not be able to use the whole of the employment discount in the new system. Special attention should be paid to this point in the further development.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u68	I'll look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u69	The Secretary of State just said something very important, namely that about 75% of the people working part-time are making progress. My group believes it is very important that we have a very good and precise picture of this before we talk about a legislative proposal. We evaluate in this Chamber very often, but you could also do some kind of ex ante evaluation. I think that's what we call an ex-ante evaluation. Could we agree that we map very precisely how many people are making progress on this point in advance? We would like to make that 75% very concrete in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u70	I'm gonna take a look at the people who should be able to say that exactly. Otherwise, I'll fix it by the end of the first term. As far as I know, as soon as we proceed to the legal process, we have as specific a picture as possible of what the groups look like. I see that's true. I do have a disclaimer: whether someone really gets better or worse, really depends on the very specific individual situation. So it must be estimates. But that is part of the law and is also provided for in the elaboration of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u71	This is indeed about individual situations, but another aspect that is relevant here is, of course, the collective agreement in the sector concerned. That is, of course, very difficult to count. If you work with large numbers, you could make an assessment based on the collective agreements. I wonder if the Secretary of State would also like to take this point of the collective agreements prior to the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u72	That's a tough one for me. I hesitate to say so, because I love that if I promise anything, I can do it too. Many people are currently employed in many different sectors. I will see whether I can answer that question in the second term and whether I can make a commitment on that. But the diversity of employers currently helping people with disabilities to work is very large. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bruins asked me to investigate the position of people who can only work part-time and the reduction in working time. I have just answered that. Mr Peters has asked a number of questions. Am I prepared to engage in consultations to develop a regime for people with disabilities in the Participation Act that is similar to a regime for people working with pay dispensation in the Wajong? I think it would be good to work that out on this point and also on the other points you mentioned, for example the partner and power test, so that we can decide whether that is what we want. It has financial consequences, but it is something I would like to work out and submit. It will mean that there will be less revenue, but I can tell in the speech of you and other Members of Parliament, but also in what has been said in recent weeks, that this is a major concern. I would like to look very specifically at the supplementary regime, the budgetary impact and also at the substantive effects if you are going to slide into it, for example the power test and the partner test.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u73	As long as the Secretary of State is working out a regime. She just indicated: we want to make it easier for employers by going to one regime and we already have the pay dispensation at the Wajong. I was wondering why we would not be able to work out a single regime with wage costs subsidies. Then we'll go the other way with the Wajongs. Isn't that working out a single regime?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u74	This proposal is based on several pillars: making it simpler for employers, but also making it rewarding from the start for the people who are going to work. This is not the case with wage costs subsidies. That is why I made this proposal. With pay dispensation, I can do it. Mrs. Nijkerken-de Haan asked about the occasional extras that you get as an employee on top of the monthly wage. The supplementary allowance currently follows the system of the safety net character of the assistance, including the checks on income and wealth. Under the regular regime, bonuses provided by the employer, as well as a thirteenth month and end-of-year benefits, belong to the income from or related to work to be taken into account. I have also heard signals that compensation for extras such as bonuses, as I have just mentioned, restricts people to work and could increase the administrative burden. I'd like to have an eye for that, too. If the Chamber asks me, I am prepared to include that issue in the further development. Several parties asked about supplementary pensions and employee insurance, including members of the Christian Union and D66. Everyone living in the Netherlands builds up AOW, regardless of whether you work or how much you earn. Because everyone at that age gets AOW, you only build up supplementary pension on that part of your salary that comes above a threshold. It's called the AOW franchise. It's about $13,000 a year. For the part of your salary under the AOW franchise, we agreed that the AOW provides sufficient replacement income after retirement. People who work with pay dispensation often do not exceed the AOW franchise with their pay because the wage value is too low for that. They're not building up a supplementary pension. This also means that the employer does not pay a pension contribution for them, which is reflected in the net wage. I understand very well that it is a discussion, wide in the Chamber and beyond, and that everyone is willing to allow people to build up a piece of supplementary pension. It is, however, an equal situation in relation to, for example, people who, without restrictions on employment, deserve only a statutory minimum wage. At the same time, I understand that this is an appropriate subject. I do not currently have any figures on the number of people who are now building up supplementary pensions with wage costs subsidies. I did send the Chamber a letter yesterday in which I outlined the impact on pension formation in the case of pay dispensation compared to the situation in the case of wage subsidies. However, the amounts are indicative, because each pension fund also has its own parameters. I have heard Mr Raemakers in such a way that it is good to have this discussion properly once again. I would certainly be prepared to do so, and indeed I would point out that this is a subject which, because of its nature and extent, is also largely outside the subject we are discussing here and that other directors are also involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u75	I understand the fact that the Secretary of State points out the breadth of this issue and that this may require some time and research. I have a specific point about employers who are currently working with young people with pay dispensations, so they employ Wajangers. They tell me: I actually want to offer these young people a supplementary pension; I want to do something extra for them. But then I hear from those entrepreneurs that they can't actually go anywhere. Is the Secretary of State prepared to see if she knows these signals and to find out exactly where these bumps are if just the entrepreneurs want to walk extra miles with these people and do something extra for the target group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u76	If I may take Mr Raemakers' appeal in such a way that I am going to take a really good look at whether things are possible, then I would like to include Mr Bruins' question. I do note that the chance that I come with a world-shocking it-can-ineens-well, after all the exercises of the past years has not been given. I'd like to manage those expectations a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u77	Thank you very much for this commitment. I get the impression when I get these signals, that entrepreneurs don't have the problem that they couldn't, under the rules, but that they can't go anywhere, with a pension fund or an insurer who wants to help them somehow. So there's also some kind of preliminary research needed to do this and whether you can actually go somewhere in the Netherlands, or whether there's a bump if we'd like to help these people. This is for further explanation. I hope that doesn't make the commitment smaller than I just got her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u78	In that sense, it is two different things. I'm tasting from Mr. Raemakers that he says: can't you just change that? Adapting is, of course, very difficult, because it also requires adjustments to tax rules. It's very complex, for employers, pension funds, the IRS. Anyway, I certainly want to look at it again and at least send a letter about it once more in all transparency, together with the colleagues from Finance and the Tax Administration. In addition, I consider Mr Bruins' question to be a special one. What can you offer employers who want to do what? This could be in the third pillar, for example. There may also be all kinds of tax bumps, but I am happy to include that question in the commitment made to Mr Raemakers earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u79	I am, of course, very pleased with this commitment. I am also pleased with the discussion we are having, because wouldn't we also grant these people a pension right? I made that very clear in my text. But a pension right also means, of course, a duty to contribute to your own pension. I would like to add to the discussion that it is not just about the government or about employers but also about employees. I should like to extend Mr Bruins' question as follows. Suppose someone already works with pay dispensation in the Wajong and states that they are willing to pay off their pension each month, built up by employers and government, if they get a pension entitlement later. Could the Secretary of State perhaps take into account the aspect of this worker and the freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u80	I will see if I can, but within the existing regime that seems to me to be a complex question, I honestly say. I want to manage expectations, but I'm going to do my best to do justice to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u81	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u82	Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on a number of other questions, which I have tried to answer in the event of an interruption. There was a question from Mr Stoffer, whom I would also like to give an extraordinary compliment for his beautiful maiden speech. He asked whether I wanted to see if the application of the low wage cost advantage, LKV, could be easier for the people in the target group. I would certainly like to look at proposals that are compatible with pay dispensation. That's not just the LKV. That's also the LIV, low-income advantage. A plea to streamline tax facilities more for the target group is an interesting option. I'm not alone about that either. That is what I need the colleagues who are talking about finance, the tax administration and the UWV, but I certainly want to look at that. I have another question from Mrs Van Brenk. I think that the need for further simplification for employers is a very important point. I'm sure I'd like to report that to her, too. We have just had a brief debate on this, but perhaps I can say a little more specifically how I see it myself. I would also like to include the desirability of looking at a uniform methodology of wage valuation. Unlike labour cost subsidies, the determination of wage values in the case of pay dispensation is directly on your account. Not only because you want to avoid arbitrariness, but also because you do not want to get into the situation that we now have where employers say "each municipality is different', you have to look at how to achieve uniformity, of course within decentralisation. I would like to look with social partners, municipalities and client organisations at how we can do this objectively, carefully and unequivocally. Mrs Van Brenn had also asked for a response to Cedris' improvement proposal to apply a single residence principle. Cedris has made several suggestions for improvement, for which I am very grateful. One is to use one wage value system per company. I would like to exchange views with those involved. I would also like to include this proposal. Mrs Nijkerken-De Haan asked whether people should actually go to the municipality themselves to ask for their supplementary benefits. A concern that has been heard a lot in the discussion is: is it becoming more complex for people themselves? People who are going to work with pay dispensation are already in the picture of the municipality. The employer must ask for permission from the municipality. That is the moment when the municipality knows who it is and can therefore start the service. I would like to make it clear in the further development that municipalities can help people with disabilities directly to determine the additional benefit. I would also like to look at this in the light of the question: can we make it simpler, can we come to a fairer regime with each other? Mr. Chairman. I'm the end of my answer. If that's not the case, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u83	I'll see who was first at the interrupting microphone. Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u84	The Secretary of State is at the end of her term. We're about to enter the second term. But the question is, of course, what feeling can people go home with? We're working on modifications. That's profit. But we have to be very precise. The Secretary of State said they're gonna work on modifications with the people who've made a lot of protests. That's interesting. But you might as well do it differently. You can also ask those people, who have very good alternatives, and who have also suggested them at the hearing, for example: will you work that out for me and put it on the table? That's like another route. That's the first route I actually find to yourself. You can invite anyone you want. But my proposal to explain is to ask those organisations, which have constructive alternatives, to develop them. I'm just asking you to look at that with an open eye. Are you open to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u85	I have received an extraordinary number of reactions over the last few weeks. I'm trying to do them all right. Let me put that in front of you. I think it is important to say that I have been sent away with an assignment that I have signed wholeheartedly. We've dealt with him here several times. We want to help more people to work, to make it simpler, to make work pay, and to use what remains to help people who can't normally get to work. That's my priority. I think that is also the framework within which I have accepted this task. In there, we can watch together, but this is the first thing that matters to me. As far as I am concerned, the instrument of pay dispensation can do justice to this objective. So I also think it is important to be transparent about the balance of interests that we must also make here. That's what I experience as my role. I try to be very helpful in that, to the Chamber, but also to organizations. In the end, however, it is also up to me to make a proposal and put it before the Court for review. So at least I'm going with the variant where I'm asking people at the table. I never close my eyes and my ears to good ideas, but I think it's something else to say: yell. I've never experienced that in the discussion, you know; I charge a little bit now. As far as I am concerned, I am very happy to check with the Chamber whether I can get on with this proposal. I have indicated where I feel and taste space, and perhaps I get some additional things from the Chamber. With that proposal, I'd like to go back to the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u86	One last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u87	I do not find that reassuring, because in fact the Secretary of State says: I do want to invite those people to the table, but I remain within the framework of my own plans, and pay dispensation is not off the table with this. Wouldn't it be much more graceful if the Secretary of State said: I'm going ahead with my plans, but I can see that there are serious alternatives. Those organizations have every right to confront your plans. What's wrong with inviting them and saying: make those plans; let's see them? Maybe they'll change your mind. If you don't, if you're within your own path...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u88	If the Secretary of State doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u89	That's right, Mr. Chairman. If she doesn't, I think the glass is half full and we're gonna go home with a dead sparrow, because the Secretary of State is just going on with the main line of her plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u90	I don't have any illusions that I wouldn't even want to have that if I said "I won't" there wouldn't be any other plans. I think that's just the profit of the past few weeks. I think everyone in the Netherlands now knows what problem we have, how many people are unwittingly on the sidelines. This has produced a lot of good ideas, a very transparent discussion and a great deal of attention here too to what could be improved. So it seems to me to be an excellent trajectory that we are doing with each other. I won't forbid anyone from thinking, but I also love clarity. I like transparency. I've accepted an assignment. That's what I'm doing with great passion. I'll keep the shutters open. But in all honesty, I must also consider and further develop a proposal. Clarity is also important, and I try to act with speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u91	Mrs. Van Brenk, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u92	In any case, I am pleased that the Secretary of State says she is going to talk to a lot of clubs, such as the Human Rights College, Cedris and VNG. Very nice, but I actually need a commitment from her to be reassured myself. I'll keep coming back to your own note and I'll hang on to page 10 again, because that says the word "may" in it. As a collective bargaining guy, you know that a kan-article is something you can deviate from. You don't necessarily have to do it if it says "If the extra sheltered workplaces are not needed due to the need, the means can be used." With that, I continue to insist that the 500 million is actually a kind of austerity, just cashing. Can I get a guarantee from this Secretary of State that the 500 million will not be returned to the State but will be deployed there for what it is intended to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u93	The resources that this provides are for the municipalities, to use for participation. That's what we decentralised with each other. Municipalities therefore have official policy freedom, but they focus on participation. That's why it says "can." Firstly, the need for sheltered work is leading. Also given the role of municipalities in this whole discussion, I have no doubt that this money will be put in the right place, but within the agreements we have made, it is ultimately up to municipalities to use the funds for services, sheltered work and participation. Having said that formally, this is the only reason why it says "may."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u94	My question follows on from that. I asked a question about this in my first term too. Maybe I didn't listen carefully, but I didn't hear the answer either. I am pleased that, following another question from me, you have indicated that there is also an important role for municipalities to help people in this supplementary benefit. People should already be in the picture, but I also asked if you could give a cautious outline of how municipalities, if at the moment there may not be a direct need for those extra sheltered workplaces, could use those resources to perhaps give some extra support to the target group we are talking about. I am referring in particular to support in the direction of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u95	That's what it's meant for. In the hypothetical situation that the need for sheltered work is fulfilled and that the municipality would have resources, you can think of the use of a job coach, trainings or facilities that make it possible for people to get to work. They are therefore very concrete, but participation and work support provisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u96	I have tried to ask a question about school leavers from practical education and special education, but perhaps it did not come across as a question; or I have not listened carefully and the answer has been given. When I see you like this, I think you're going to give me another answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u97	Yes. Would you please help me? I remember your question, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u98	Oh, yeah. I will literally repeat the question. I have asked whether the Cabinet recognizes that school leavers from practical education and special education are going to be at risk from 21 years of age onwards. Then I'm talking about the cost-sharing standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u99	Since I also see this coming back regularly in the media, it might be good to say the following. If people are 21, that doesn't mean they can't claim support from the municipality. It does not even mean that there can be no entitlement to a benefit. However, it is true that municipalities prefer to see young people at work or at school.They try to do so first, but there is that possibility. At the same time, we know that this is a vulnerable group. If we look again at what is possible, with the remark that this has an effect on the revenues that are intended for people who are going to work sheltered, on the regime, for example, for people who are not entitled to benefit or who are dealing with a cost sharing standard, then this group will automatically come into the picture. I would therefore like to include your question in that assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u100	I want to talk about the targets and the means. I have the feeling that the goals are not so different. This is about helping people with disabilities to work. But the discussion is about the means, for example, about whether it should be dispensed with by pay. The Secretary of State will consult with many different organisations, which we naturally welcome. Wouldn't it make sense to say: we're holding on to those goals... there's little discussion about... but for what the outcome should be and what means should it be?...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I think she can open up the conversation much more. It will benefit everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u101	I understand that, but I'm still looking for an anchor point. For me, the anchor point at pay dispensation is that it makes it possible for people to notice in their wallets from the first hour they start working. I think that's very important. That is why the cabinet has now opted for pay dispensation, also because it is in line with the Wajong instruments and can generate money through simplification. But the most important thing for me, and also for the people in the group who are involved, people with disabilities, is that it is immediately noticeable. I do not see that with other instruments at the moment. That is why I am certainly sticking to the pay dispensation, as an anchor point for further discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u102	Mrs. Voortman, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u103	I hear the Secretary of State say: I do not see that "at present" under the current regulations. I think that sounds positive, because if the goal is to make work pay, then everyone agrees. So I'd say make the targets the anchor point and not that medium. Because then you can really have an open conversation with all those organizations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u104	I don't see it with other instruments. But I'm glad we have an agreement on the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u105	Last question. Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u106	It is good that resources remain within the sector and remain available for helping this target group to work. A while ago, we held a debate in this Chamber on the means to combat child poverty. It appeared that the municipalities had not all spent the extra resources to combat child poverty. Does the Secretary of State wish to make it clear in its further development, perhaps in conversation with the municipalities, what instruments does it have to ensure that the resources that will be available to this group will really be devoted to this target group? What instruments does the government have to keep the municipalities to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u107	I think we're pulling on the same side of the rope at this point. So I'm gonna set this up for my conversations with the city as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u108	On this last point, I believe that we have amended the law in the Chamber to oblige municipalities to provide shelter. Can the Secretary of State include that in those conversations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u109	I will deal with this issue with the municipalities and see how we can clarify the proper use of the funds in question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u110	Mr. Bruins, you may clarify something. You, too, are through your interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u111	The reason why I came up with this last question was because I heard at the end of the debate that we might not be able to measure it to those 20,000 extra places, because part of the money might be spent on job coaches or other assignments to work. I still want the guarantee, make sure that that money really goes to this target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u112	Point tasks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u113	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. We're going to the second term now. I give the floor to Mrs Voortman on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u114	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the instrument gives people an unequal position in the workplace;]] [[considers that each worker is entitled to the minimum wage and pension;]] [[noting that the instrument does not create additional jobs;]] [[noting that there is little support for the introduction of wage dispensation;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the proposal for the introduction of wage dispensation;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with alternative proposals, together with people with disabilities, interest groups and other relevant parties, on the basis of the experience from the field and the ongoing investigation following the Van Weyenberg/Herma motion (Room 33161, No. 174),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Voortman, Mr Van Brenk, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Van Raan, Mr De Jong and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-101]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u115	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitment that she will respond in writing to GroenLinks' proposal. We believe that the government's plan for pay dispensation will not work and that GroenLinks' plan will. It is budget neutral, it is solidarity and it does generate employment. So I think that if the Secretary of State focuses on the goals and does not stick to the means, it should really be possible to come up with a better proposal than what is now in the pipeline. In any case, this proposal is not working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u116	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u117	Mr. Chairman. There are cracks and cracks in the proposal as presented by the Secretary of State to us. That is a good sign, because it is a bad proposal. There's no support for it. But the modifications shouldn't be a sweetener. The glass shouldn't turn out to be half empty at the end. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Human Rights College notes that the proposals for pay dispensation run counter to international conventions which agree to pay persons with disabilities no less than the minimum wage;]] [[Whereas the Human Rights College states that the proposal for pay dispensation on various fronts is detrimental and does not comply with the right to equal treatment;]] [[Whereas the College of Human Rights points out that the proposed measure may lead to feelings of inferiority in people with disabilities and the idea of not being fully understood;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the bill it sends to the Chamber is in line with international conventions and with the opinion of the Human Rights College,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-102]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u118	Finally. I am, of course, fully convinced of Mrs Voortman's motion to look for real alternatives rather than fake alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u119	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Raemakers on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u120	Thank you, Mr President. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the main note on pay dispensation has led to concerns for both people who may be affected and organisations and municipalities that are to implement the new scheme;]] [[Considering that the hearing had critically responded to a number of issues, such as the position of non-contributorys, the functioning of the partner and asset test and the difference with pay dispensation in the Wajong, but that alternative effects were also presented constructively within the principles of the government agreement;]] [[Whereas it is desirable that the proposed change from wage subsidy to wage dispensation should be widely supported;]] [[Whereas it is desirable that (1) the proposed change actually leads to more jobs for people with disabilities or distance from the labour market and (2) to work or to work more from the first hour is rewarding for people;]] [[calls on the Government to hold ongoing consultations with employers, employees, civil society organisations and the municipalities in the run-up to the legislative proposal, and to this end, in line with the idea of De Noordste Zaken, to organise practical tables with these stakeholders, and to use them as far as possible in the final drafting of the legislative proposal;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, in the further development of the legislative proposal, how to respond to the concerns raised in the hearing, without abandoning the objective of helping more people to work and making work pay from the first hour,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Raemakers and Mr Nijkerken-de Haan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-103]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u121	I hear the motion for the first time, and there's a lot in it. I have to consider whether or not I support this. I heard the recital that there is a great deal of support for the transition from wage subsidy to wage dispensation. I hope I have that wrong, because that is, of course, pertinently incorrect. What did it say?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u122	I just turned in the motion, but I remember. It said that many alternative ideas have been put forward to amend points within the frameworks we agreed on in the coalition agreement. We had a hearing on this last week. A lot of alternatives have been put forward. Then, in this motion, we say that it is important to get broad support. The VNG is also opposed at the moment. It is really important that the municipalities also participate in this scheme. Among other things, in consultation with municipalities, there will be a need for a system that can also be implemented by municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u123	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u124	This means that if this motion is adopted, the plan that is going to be made afterwards must have support and that if there is no support, D66 does not agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u125	Yes, what we state in the motion is that broad support is important. You will always, because that is politics, have a bill that some people and organizations are against and others are against. It would be very nice, I say to Mr Van Dijk, if we had a proposal here that could be supported by the whole Chamber and by everyone in society. That would be the best thing, but we know that politics is also about making choices and weighing. That is why the motion says that we really want to get more people to work. We would also like to stick to that very good starting point of the note, that three-quarters of the people are improving at the first hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u126	At the beginning of the debate, Mr Raemakers said: beware of the place. Mr Raemakers has now tabled a motion that we should discuss with a number of people, but that we will introduce pay dispensation at the end of the journey. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u127	We agreed in the government agreement that we are going to change the wage subsidy system to wage dispensation. That's the deal I'm in for. It is not the case that we agreed in the coalition agreement exactly what that looks like. The Secretary of State has come up with a general note. It's the first time we've discussed it in this room. We have said that we have a number of concerns and that they really need to be taken into account. There's really something else that needs to change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u128	Finally, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u129	The debate has already shown, also through the input of D66, that the 500 million targets remain and that the measures are taken on the basis of the principle of pay dispensation. The cabinet will have to talk to everyone and everything, but at the end of the journey the pay dispensation will be used. Or is Mr Ramakers saying that we are going to introduce pay dispensation, but that is basically labour cost subsidies, so we are going to pay people above the statutory minimum wage, we are going to arrange pension building, we are going to do all that? Then I could go along with it. Is it true that this motion is actually calling for the process of introducing pay dispensation to continue, but that has been taken into account at that stage to talk to a number of people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u130	Yeah, that's right. The answer is yes. I would like to add that the name 'wage dispensation', as I said earlier, is not sacred. When municipalities and employers, together with the State Secretary, say that they have a number of ideas within the concept of pay dispensation and ask for them to be processed, while they do not necessarily want it to be called pay dispensation anymore, of course, but it is important that something really happens in that labour market. The current wage subsidy system has so far helped 11,000 people to work, and that is far from enough. We have a huge job to do to get those 100,000 jobs. Everyone in the field indicates that something must be done to achieve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u131	D66 started in the first term very hopefully with a pass in place, as I have seen in the news, but now I see this motion, which says: talk to everyone, but we will continue. Is that the pass at D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u132	This motion says talk to everyone. It also says in the motion that only listening and talking is not enough. It is very important that those points which have been raised and which are mentioned by the various parties organised in the practical tables are really taken into account. As the Secretary of State has now stated in the main note in all transparency what the loves are, it is important for her to indicate later on in the proposal: this has been indicated by the parties, we have been able to process this and not this. The fact that you can't process everything is understandable, but you have to indicate clearly and transparently what concerns there are, what you can change and what the result is at the bottom of the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u133	As a trade unionist, I sat at the table with a lot of employers and if they were going to use the word 'take it', I knew how far it was, because that is nothing. Then they'll hear it and we'll keep going. I have another question. Why was the motion not also called the College of Human Rights? That would also be a very clear signal. The motion refers to civil society organisations and so on, which is very important, but why is it not included?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u134	If I've listened to it correctly, the Secretary of State has promised that she will be talking to the Human Rights College. I think that is a very good commitment from her too. It was a matter of looking at the text, and I did not use it because I thought that commitment was sufficient on that point. I also think it is very important for the cabinet to see how we can comply with human rights. I also see in the ruling of the College of Human Rights a number of things that we also find, such as the position of non-contributorys and the partner and asset test. Let's take another critical look at it. I believe that this is also the purpose of the College of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u135	The name of the substance is, of course, not at the heart of the bill. At the heart of the legislative proposal is that people can get below the statutory minimum wage on the basis of their limitation. As far as I am concerned, that is what this is about. My question is: does that remain at the heart of this motion? Is it the case that the starting point of the bill remains that people should be below the minimum wage?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u136	This is a complicated discussion that we also discussed in the debate. I have also indicated that at the moment there are people who work below the minimum wage per month, because they can only work 20 hours or 25 hours a week, for example. That situation is accepted by GroenLinks at the moment. You have made an alternative proposal today. I am also very willing to look at it and I am also very interested in the reaction of the Secretary of State to it, but I do not think that will put an end to that situation either. The strength of this proposal is precisely that working for a very large group of people from the first hour on is becoming much more rewarding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u137	And the weakness of the proposal is that people are declining on the basis of a restriction. So my question is whether it remains at its core. I would like to make a second point. I am missing another party in this motion, namely the organisations of people with disabilities. They have written that petition and I find it very painful that they are not mentioned in this motion. I'm sure that's a mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u138	We have written down: organizations and employees. You can read the motion in such a way that the organisations you mention also fall under it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u139	I would ask Mr Raemakers to add the College of Human Rights to the motion. The concerns I have expressed towards the Secretary of State were that it states that the State must provide that when people go to work, they must earn at least the minimum wage. That is a difference from how the Secretary of State interprets it, namely that there is a supplement to the level of assistance. Then you talk about a benefit versus a salary. I would like to hear from you how you see it and whether you also believe that people are simply entitled to pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u140	Mrs Van Brenn asks me once again to add that College of Human Rights to this motion. I have just explained that I am satisfied with the Secretary of State's commitment on that point. I do not think it would work very well if someone from the Human Rights College had to sit down at all those tables. I think it is much more efficient for the Secretary of State to have a separate discussion with the College of Human Rights to deal separately with those specific points which the College mentions from a legal and human rights perspective. I think that we will do the most justice to the judgment of the College of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u141	Finally, Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u142	Madam President. Mr Raemakers does not go into my point. Are we talking about pay or are we talking about a beneficiary? Soon we should want to talk about the fact that all these people are employees on salary. Does Mr Raemakers agree with 50PLUS?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u143	Mr. Chairman. I mentioned three points on behalf of D66 which we are critical of. I'm just gonna walk by. I'm gonna mention the partners, and I'm gonna ask you if it's worth it if you're just the two of us. I mentioned the non-contributorys, the partner and the asset test. Finally, I mentioned pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u144	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u145	Those are also the points of the College of Human Rights. In that sense, therefore, I agree with Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u146	Thank you very much, Mr Raemakers. I now turn to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u147	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I began my speech in the first term with the question to the coalition and to the Secretary of State what that outstretched hand is worth. I am talking about the Prime Minister's outstretched hand when he presented the coalition agreement and said that we have all kinds of plans; perhaps you disagree, but we are talking to all the organisations and people, including the opposition. We are now at the end of this debate, and there is a great social resistance. It is the principle that people should not be put into benefits for the rest of their lives, but should participate fully in the workplace. That is precisely what the College of Human Rights stands up for and says: if you do, that is discrimination. I have to conclude that there have been a lot of words, in the vein of "take the place," "we are still going to talk to people," but that the matter of principle remains, namely that this cabinet and this coalition choose to put people in a benefit situation and thus discriminate against people on the basis of their labour restrictions. That is why we, as Labour Party, will continue to fight for it, and I hope, of course, with several organizations to get this plan off the table. That is why we naturally support the motions tabled by Mrs Voortman and Mr Jasper van Dijk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u148	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the Secretary of State for the comprehensive reply. I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the aim of introducing pay dispensation is to give more people with disabilities who are unable to earn the statutory minimum wage on their own the opportunity to actually work with an employer;]] [[Whereas the additional benefit from the municipality is covered by the regime of the Participation Act with corresponding rules on the level of exemption in relation to the supplementary benefit;]] [[Whereas the starting point is that work should pay;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether and how it may be possible not to charge the benefit for extras above the monthly income (bonuses, thirteen months, end-of-year benefits, etc.);]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Nijkerken-de Haan and Mr Peters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-104]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u151	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Peters on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A motion, also signed by Mr Bruins, on behalf of the CDA. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[workers working under remuneration should not be hindered by complex administrative burdens;]] [[the Participation Act is primarily intended as a safety net for people who are temporarily unable to provide the necessary subsistence costs and are not specifically designed to compensate people with disabilities who are unable to earn the statutory minimum wage independently;]] [[people with a Wajong benefit are already working with pay dispensation;]] [[calls on the government, in cooperation with the VNG and Divosa and client organisations, to examine how to achieve a working method and very simple rules for people working with pay dispensation, similar to those for people in the Wajong,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Peters and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-105]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u153	Thank you very much, Mr Peters. Mrs Van Brenn now has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas employers are at risk of losing out on hiring people with disabilities through bureaucracy;]] [[Whereas at the hearing, the representative of the UNG believes that more uniformity can reduce bureaucracy for employers;]] [[invites the government to consult with the Association of Dutch Municipalities on how to reduce the bureaucracy surrounding the recruitment of people with disabilities for companies through greater uniformity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Brenk, Mr Voortman, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-106]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u155	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday it was full of journalists and photographers. Then it was about a couple of jokes. Now that we are talking about a subject that affects many people and many lives, about income from people who want to join, it is deadly quiet here. They don't deserve that. This goes on. This discriminatory measure must be removed from the table. Let me say again: these people do not deserve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u156	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I now turn to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u157	Mr. Chairman. I think it is clear that this is not an easy subject for the Christian Union. But I do think we have a very good debate and I am sure that today I have at least seen a Secretary of State who has also shown that she is very interested in this target group, and that she also wants to give room for further work to ensure that something good can arise. This is important, because for the Christian Union, we want to create as much space as possible for people who want to work, but in the most social way possible. I have one motion to support that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that workers with disabilities may have both a limited wage value and a medical hours limit;]] [[noting that the proposed system of pay dispensation is based on the fact that (more) work must (more) pay;]] [[Considers that a person with a medical hour limitation participates in maximum power;]] [[calls on the Government to involve people with a medical time limit and full-timers with a reduced wage value in the further development of the plans and to examine in the further development of the legislative proposal how this group of workers can benefit from maximum pay for maximum work,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Raemakers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-107]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u158	Mr. Chairman. At the end of the journey, the proposal for pay dispensation, and therefore the proposal to pay people under the Minimum wage Act, remains in place. That is not what you should have expected after all the social unrest that has arisen over the past few weeks and months, after the publication of the headline note and also following the negotiations where all the questions that have been asked today could have been asked by the coalition partners and could have been included in the note. The conclusion of this debate is that in the coming months the people who will soon be covered by this measure will remain in uncertainty, at home, without work. That's not the objective you should have as a cabinet. That's what's happening now. That's a hell of a scandal. Today, the Secretary of State should have taken the plan for pay dispensation off the table. She didn't. Nevertheless, I hope that she will come to terms with it and use it over the next few weeks to finally inform the Chamber to withdraw the plans and to use what is already in place, namely labour costs subsidies, to give all those people who are now on the sidelines the job that you are so eager to give them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u159	I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u160	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the answer and also for a number of commitments she has made to our questions. We are also pleased that we were able to see a lot of sensitivity with the problems that lie ahead. Nevertheless, in the first period, we indicated that we have doubts about the problems and the solutions that the cabinet sees. They weren't taken entirely. I do not think that was possible in this debate either, because there is still a whole route to follow. We have also said that in order to be able to take a final position, the legislative proposal must at least have a more comprehensive basis. To give more substance to this, we also have a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the proposed model of pay dispensation raises many justified concerns;]] [[Whereas additional criteria are important as an alternative to or in addition to pay dispensation in order to better support both workers with disabilities and employers;]] [[calls on the Government to identify and consider alternatives which include at least the right of employers to pay against the minimum wage, the right of non-contributorys to pay dispensation, clear payout of income and adequate guarantees for vulnerable groups such as young people from special education and practical education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-108]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u161	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u162	Thank you, Mr President. There are still a few motions that I would like to give a ruling on before the Chamber. I'll start with the motion Voortman c.s. in piece No. 101 to withdraw the proposal for the introduction of wage dispensation. I would advise against this motion because I do not wish to withdraw the proposal. I do think that we can discuss today's views with many parties, as indicated in the debate. I would like to include those insights in the drafting of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u163	The motion in part No. 101 gets the verdict "dissuade."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u164	In the Jasper van Dijk/Gijs van Dijk motion in part No. 102 The government is asked to ensure that the bill I am sending to the Chamber is in line with international conventions and with the advice of the Human Rights College. The Council of State is also reviewing the international conventions, so that element is provided for. I also attach great importance to the opinion of the College of Human Rights, but I think that the final consideration of how to deal with a proposal lies here with the Chamber. For this reason, I advise against the motion, stating that I would like and seriously engage with the Human Rights College and would like to involve their views in the drafting of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u165	The motion in part No. 102 gets the verdict "dissuade."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u166	Then I come to the motion-Raemakers/Nijkerken-de Haan in part No. 103 to examine whether the objections raised in the hearing can be addressed in what way, without abandoning the objectives of the plan. I would like to leave the opinion on this motion, which I read within the framework I have exchanged with the Chamber in the debate, to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u167	The motion in part No. 103 receives the opinion "Guide Chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u168	I have a question on this motion, but also on the motions for resolutions on item Nos. 104, 105 and 107. Does this mean that it is all within the framework of a proposal on pay dispensation and the Participation Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u169	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u170	So the same goes for the other motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u171	I'll make it explicit by motion. I'll hold on to the motion in part No. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and their trailers is based on the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the Then I come to the motion-Nijkerken-de Haan/Peters in part No. 104 to examine whether, and in what way, it may be possible not to offset extras above monthly earnings with the benefit. I'd like to leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber. I'd like to investigate and inform the House of that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u172	The motion in part No. 104 receives the opinion "Guide Chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u173	I ask the same question: is this within the framework of a new plan or is it broad with regard to the current benefit regime?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u174	This motion explicitly states the introduction of pay dispensation. That is why I did not explicitly mention it, but the answer to Mr Gijs van Dijk's question is yes. Then I come to the Peters/Browns motion in part No. 105 to investigate, in cooperation with the VNG, Divosa and client organisations, how to arrive at a working method and very simple rules for people working with pay dispensation. This motion also covers pay dispensation........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In view of the debates I have had with the Members of Parliament, I would like to make a brief assessment of this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u175	The motion in part No. 105 gets "judge chamber." I call Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u176	Perhaps a plethora: does the Secretary of State also take the partner test and the cost-sharing standard and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u177	Yeah, I'll take it with me. I would just like to highlight the element in the debate that I have said we have reached a point of balance, including with regard to the cost of revenue through simplification on the part of the salary dispensation. It may also have an impact on the objective of job protection. But I'd like to inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u178	The motion in part No. 106.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u179	The motion in part No. Mrs Van Brenk's 106 calls for consultation with the UNG on how greater uniformity can reduce bureaucracy. I have a question for the author. If I may read this motion within the framework of the headline pay dispensation, I could give the motion judgment Chamber. It is, for example, about the valuation of wages. If it is understood by the authors of the motion as an invitation or an encouragement to develop an alternative to wage dispensation or to continue with wage subsidies, I must, unfortunately, advise against it. I would still like to point out that I do want to work on standardisation. But I'd like to hear this from the petitioner before I can give my final judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u180	Yes. Mrs. Van Brenk?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u181	The UNG was very clear: within the wage costs subsidy, we could already solve the problems and bureaucracy of employers by making it more uniform. So it really is meant within the wage cost subsidy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u182	I find that incredibly regrettable, because I would have liked to make some more constructive judgments. Unfortunately, however, I have to discourage her, but I would like to point out that I have experienced a number of interruption debates with Members of Parliament who are not members of the coalition as a very constructive exchange of views. I shall now come to Mr Bruins and Mr Raemakers' motion on item No. 107 on people with medical hours. I'm being asked to work that out with the bill. This motion I give judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u183	The motion in part No. 107 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u184	The last motion is Mr Stoffer's motion on item No. 108. The recital says "alternatively for or in addition to pay dispensation" and that is something I cannot embrace, also in view of today's debate. Which is why I'm afraid I'm gonna have to dissuade her. However, I would point out that the issues in the operative part, for example the right of non-contributorys to pay dispensation, a clear payout and guarantees for vulnerable groups of young people from secondary education, are elements which I would like to involve in the motion tabled earlier by Mr Peters. In doing so, I try to respond to what he has wanted to convey, and that would do justice to his maiden speech today. But the motion itself, I regret to say, has to be dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u185	The motion in part No. 108 gets dissuaded from judgment. Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u186	Mr President, with your permission, I would like to return to my own motion on item No. 102. It's being dissuaded by the Secretary of State. Do I have to understand that the Secretary of State wants to have the space to depart from the advice of the College of Human Rights and that it can therefore potentially continue unequal treatment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u187	I have indicated that the Council of State is also examining international conventions and that I attach great importance to the opinion of the College of Human Rights. But I think it would be wise to give the legislator the room for a proper balance of interest. For this reason, I advise against the motion, in which I myself state that I would very much like to talk to the college because I very much appreciate his advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u188	Anyway, in my words. The secretary of state is going to listen and look at the advice of the college but she takes the space to deviate from it. Otherwise, it simply cannot discourage that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u189	I am very sorry that one or two words dissuade the motion, but we have deliberately tabled it in this way. Of course, we are not bound by the coalition agreement. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for taking the second part of the motion into account. But I wasn't going to change the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u190	The motion in part No. 108 remains as it was and thus the judgment continues to be dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u191	Mr President, a small personal note to conclude this debate. In any case, I would like to thank the Chamber for the dignified debate we have had. But I would also like to thank all the organisations and people who have taken the trouble in recent weeks to tell me what they think of this proposal. I am also grateful that they have agreed to stay at the table. I've heard a lot of people's personal stories. They really hit me. I'm trying to do justice to people's wishes, the call for dignity. I also thought it was a nice and dignified debate. The call for dignity, for full participation, is my motivation to continue. I hope I get the green light from the Chamber to work on a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u192	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-26-tweedekamer-7.u193	The votes on the motions tabled will be taken later this afternoon. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments. Then we continue with the VAO Childcare.
