ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is Mrs Gerbrands's farewell. I'll start by reading her letter. Mr President, dear Khadija, With pain in my heart, I must announce my departure from your Lower House. When almost ten years ago I switched from care to politics, I gave it up and joined the party for the same purpose and mission as I did. I have done so all these years with great pleasure and passion, but as you know, last year has been a terrible year. First of all, for my colleague and friend Willie Dille, but also for the next of kin, including myself. If you are a member of a political family, you expect a warm blanket of support and compassion from everyone. The cold truth, however, is that I have never felt so alone and I have only experienced that support and compassion from a few. That means that I feel no longer at home with this group and cannot but make the choice as I have made it now. However, my purpose and my mission are still the same as that of the PVV. That is why I decided, in consultation with the board, that I will still be active in the city council group in The Hague, with a fantastic club people. Furthermore, I will return with love to the care, where my passion lies still. I would like to thank everyone from the House of Representatives for their excellent cooperation. Sincerely, Karin Gerbrands. This resignation was notified to the President of the Central Voting Office and to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I propose that this letter be adopted for notification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u2	She herself is not here today, but I would like to say a few words about her departure. We met Karin as a Member of Parliament with a great heart for care. She is a nurse from home and has therefore seen closely how paper solutions work out in practice. She took that experience with her in the House of Representatives. In 2010 she succeeded Léon de Jong, when he left for Brussels. She later replaced Fleur Agema during her maternity leave. In 2017, she was re-elected to the Chamber. The most beautiful thing about the Chamberwork was that Karin Gerbrands found the debates. In her words: it is about the big issues, which are important for many Dutch people. She felt it was important to add something to that with good arguments, especially when it comes to reducing bureaucracy in care and nursing. Karin will continue to work in other ways and places for better care. I wish her every success and every good.
