ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-3.u1	We are going to the next question by Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66, also to the Foreign Minister, about the report that US President Trump is calling off the nuclear agreement with Iran.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. A geopolitical goal of its own. That, I think, is the best description of what Donald Trump did last week, namely steps out of the atomic agreement with Iran. Trump ended another big international deal on his own. After previously undermining the international climate agreement, he is now doing so with this nuclear deal. That's very unwise. It is unwise because it weakens the moderate forces in Iran. It is unwise because it increases the risk of conflicts in the already explosive Middle East. It is unwise because it will drive more countries to look at a nuclear programme. It is also unwise because it does nothing, but it does nothing, to control Iran's nuclear programme. It should also be made clear that Trump has failed in this regard to the opposition of the European Union, to the prayers of Macron and May. Was the deal perfect? No. Iran's regional influences weren't in it. The ballistic missile program wasn't in there. Did we know that when this deal was signed? Yes. Did the deal he was meant to do? Yeah, absolutely. The International Atomic Energy Agency has officially established up to ten times that Iran has complied with its commitments. This calls for a firm response from a united EU. The Netherlands and the European Union must make every effort to keep this deal going and to guarantee the results achieved in order to ensure that our security is maintained. This is not only in the interests of our trade relationship, but it is in the direct interest of our security. I therefore have the following questions to the Minister. 1. Does he agree that the nuclear deal with Iran is indeed a success? 2. Is he prepared to follow the French initiative at European level, with or without the Foreign Trade Minister or perhaps even tomorrow Prime Minister Rutte, and to call for the exception of certain industries wishing to do business with Iran, for a legal package of economic measures to protect European and Dutch companies from US sanctions and for the possibility of EIB loans for, for example, infrastructure projects in Iran? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Sjoerdsma expressed his deep disappointment, which was also the great disappointment of the cabinet, at the end of US support for the nuclear agreement with Iran. The Dutch Government is indeed of the opinion that this was Mr Sjoerdsma's first question that the agreement worked on balance because the agreement states that Iran would freeze its nuclear activities and allow international controls to do so. The reports we have received on these controls always indicate that Iran allowed the controls and complied with the commitments made. The proliferation of nuclear weapons is already highly undesirable, but in an area as explosive as the Middle East it is all the more undesirable. That is why this agreement was of great value and is the full commitment of the Dutch Government, including in the European context, to uphold the agreement and therefore to persuade Iran to continue to follow its part of the agreement. Last week, I called the EU's foreign policy representative, Mrs Mogherini, to put the Dutch commitment in line with her commitment and with that of the three major EU countries, with which I believe she is even consulting with Iran at the moment. In parallel, the question arises, which Mr Sjoerdsma also addressed, what this means for Dutch companies doing business or considering doing business with Iran. At the moment, it is not quite clear how the United States will deal with sanctions against European companies. Several signals have come across. I will visit my colleague Pompeo in Washington next Friday. This subject is, of course, high on the agenda. Options are discussed here, as Mr Sjoerdsma mentioned, such as exceptions for European companies and financing in euros, which means that there is no need for funding in dollars and America cannot play a role in this financing. All these options are on the table now. As far as I am concerned, it is crucial that I also hear from Mr Sjoerdsma that Europe is united here. So that is also the commitment to the discussions now in Europe, and that is also my attitude when I am in Washington on Friday. There, as a member of the European community, I will express my concerns about the American decision, look for a solution and look for a solution for Dutch companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-3.u5	It is good to see that Minister Blok shares this disappointment and also agrees that this deal is of great value to the security of the European Union, of Europe. I would like to put two more questions to this Minister. The first is about the preparation of the American administration, and the second is about the independent Dutch commitment. Minister Blok says that several signals have been sent from the US administration. I've only seen two; maybe I missed a few. I would like to put it here anyway. Trump himself has said: there are still a number of clauses that allow some companies to do business for 90 to 180 days; then it's scruffy. I also saw a tweet by the new American ambassador in Germany, who simply said: German companies doing business in Iran must stop their operations immediately. There was no clearer entry. I would like to ask this Minister what signals the American ambassador in the Netherlands or the American administration has given to the Netherlands about the space that exists to keep doing business. Or is it true, as it seems to be public, that America wants to force the European Union to force it, I say again, to stop doing business with Iran, and in that way also to undo the deal for us? The second question I would like to ask is what we are then arguing for. I understand that tomorrow, as part of the European Summit, there will be a meeting in which Prime Minister Rutte will also be present and this subject will also be raised, because Zarif has indeed just spoken with Mogherini. They said that was a constructive conversation. You just mentioned a buffet or a multiple choice of measures. What measures does the Netherlands intend to take to maintain the trading part of the deal and thus guarantee our security?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-3.u6	I do know these two American signals. But not for nothing is the following question to my colleague Pompeo at the top of my agenda next Friday: what are the American plans for European companies, including Dutch companies, that do business with Iran within European or Dutch legislation? What consequences does that have for them? I have indicated before that I accept communication by tweet as part of everyday reality, but ultimately find it insufficient for this type of action to be very far-reaching. You ask what type of measures we are using. All at the top of the list is, of course, the continuing of the JCPOA, the agreement with Iran. I realize that the opportunity on the American side is very small. But a good number two says, of course, that European companies will not be bothered by their activities in America if they continue to do business with Iran because they are allowed to do so in their own country. That's the royal road.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-3.u7	When you say that you are making the world a safer place, it is incredibly foolish to blow up an agreement that prevents Iran from developing nuclear weapons, and which the International Atomic Energy Agency has found eleven times that they are sticking to. There are only three people in favour: Trump himself, his security advisor, who has dubious ties with dubious Iranian clubs, and the Saudi prince, who has no difficulty in violating international law and throwing bombs at innocent civilians. So my question to the Minister is: if the Americans are fully committed to these demands, and it is likely that additional sanctions will be imposed on companies that do business with Iran, what consequences will the Minister himself and at EU level draw on these American actions that make our world more unsafe?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-3.u8	Then I will discuss sensible responses with the EU partners. Unfortunately, the world is on the brink of new trade wars. This is happening in addition to conflicts over steel and a number of conflicts between the United States and China that are going to affect Europe immediately. It is therefore part of a threatening escalation of trade conflicts. In the end, this is never in the interests of the Netherlands and Europe. We have made it clear to the United States, which is also a highly valued ally in many areas, how much we regret this. Moreover, the Dutch and European efforts have always been in advance to maintain the agreement with Iran. I myself stressed this in my conversation with the US representative in the Security Council. Now that that has not been achieved, it is the full commitment to keep the damage as limited as possible. All this is true in the context of the fact that an even further escalation of trade conflicts, the further division of the multilateral world order, as Mr Sjoerdsma pointed out, is ultimately very negative for the Netherlands and Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-3.u9	The VVD has called President Trump's decision "unwise," with which we do not say that the deal is perfect. My colleague, Mr Ten Broeke, has long argued for a tightening up of the deal, as well as for doing more against Iran's missile programme. But at the same time we do say: a tighter deal is a lot better than no deal, because if there is no deal, there is a great risk that Iran will still resume the nuclear programme without any supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-3.u10	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-3.u11	The question is this. The minister doesn't have a glass ball. I can understand that. But what are the chances of a tighter deal, initially from the EU to Iran, where the US could join so that we can keep the US on board?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mrs Becker is right that it was not a perfect deal and that, in addition to developments in the field of nuclear weapons, there are more Iranian behaviours that cause great concern, such as the development of long-range missiles and the bad role in Syria but also in other places in the Middle East. There are therefore many reasons why Iran should be encouraged to change its behaviour in other areas as well, and preferably to conclude an agreement. Now, of course, the credibility of concluding an agreement has been undermined by the unilateral opening of the agreement. This makes it more difficult, in the first instance, to conclude the type of additional agreements which Mrs Becker rightly refers to, because the other party will, of course, ask the question: how long will that signature be valuable? However, developments are so important and so worrying whether they are long-range missiles or the role in Syria, but also in Yemen, for example, that the Netherlands will continue to appeal to Iran. Minister Kaag has been there recently. That will be our full commitment. It is not for nothing that we fully support the European Union in its efforts to keep Iran on board the nuclear deal and to have a basis for agreements in all those other areas where we also want to see other Iranian behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-15-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you.
