ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on the extension of the time limit during which instructions under the Aviation Law of military aerodromes remain valid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u2	I pushed the button too fast. I give the floor to Mr Van Raan, who has 'hammered' this piece of hammer. I would like to draw the attention of the spokesmen to the fact that we have a very tight schedule, in any case for the whole day, but above all for this debate. So be brief and concise. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna put the speaker chair up. The good news is I don't need the full time, let me start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u4	That's nice, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr. Chairman. It has been nine years since the adoption of eight required airport decisions. Four were successful in time, and now the deadline is being asked to be extended to get the remaining four ready. The Secretary of State confirmed in her reply that the loss of substantive expertise plays a major role in this. It's good to think about that. In fact, the parallel with other public institutions is pressing. I specifically mention the enforcement agencies, such as the NVWA and the ILT. The reduction in staffing and knowledge resulting from austerity policies means that they are becoming less and less able to carry out their core tasks. That's the image that comes up. Does the Secretary of State recognize that image? I think so, to save time, because she says it herself in her letter. I would, however, like to reflect on this by-product, which is automatically more power for the sector, in this case by reducing the enforcement authority which is required to control it. Does the Secretary of State recognize that image? Mr. Chairman. We understand very well that the extension decision is in itself separate from the airport decisions, but at the same time there is a link. It does not alter the fact that something can also be said about the other, in particular about the concerns of residents. People don't always feel taken seriously and that while there is pre-sorting on increasing the number of flights, even in later hours. Is it true that this can only happen if aircraft and helicopters make less noise each? Where the noise contours now form the basis for enforcement, there is still a basis in civil aviation, namely the numbers. Is the Secretary of State prepared to commit to allowing numbers to be part of enforcement? If not, why not? Until the new aviation decisions arrive, the maintenance of military airports is covered by the old regime. Does the Secretary of State recognise that noise pollution will increase within existing and permitted calculated standards thanks to an increase in the number of F-35 devices? And does it recognise that, within the existing and permitted calculated standards, noise for residents is likely to increase in general by using the sound space? Residents of the Gilze-Rijen base, one of the airports whose airport decision has not yet been completed, rightly have concerns about this and therefore came up with a petition with four conditions for renewal. Let me briefly mention them. Does the Minister intend to revise the EIA in its entirety according to the opinion of the EIA Committee itself? As an interim device, a fixed sound measurement network shall be installed to preserve the sound zone. As good neighbours, the air base consults with local residents in good time and weighs their interests visibly. Finally, a fourth extension of time limits is no longer allowed. That is probably a desire that the Minister can agree to. The question that comes with this is how the Secretary of State deals with the conditions imposed by the providers of this petition. What can the Secretary of State promise them? Mr. Chairman. It would be helpful if the number of training flights could be reduced as much as possible or replaced by simulators. What can the Secretary of State say about that? Of course, she has already answered some of the questions in the letters, but what can the Secretary of State say about the content of the vision she is going to send to the Chamber regarding the use of simulators and mission training? Finally: our concerns about the flights over nature reserves. Fortunately, residents' groups are increasingly asserting their rights to reduce noise pollution. But I'm sure you're aware that nature can't speak for itself. However, the disruption of nature is a major problem. Officially, the effects on nature are part of the EIA, but at the same time we see errors in the calculations. Does the Secretary of State share our concerns? Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna finish up. The Secretary of State wrote to the Chamber that the EIA for Woensdrecht airport looks at the impact on the nearby Natura 2000 sites of the Brabantse Wal and that possible activities are being adapted, or that mitigation and compensatory measures are being taken, as appropriate. Can the Secretary of State go into that a little more specifically? Or commit to a letter? What exactly does the Secretary of State see in mind when she writes that further measures will be taken if there is more nuisance than is allowed? Mr. Chairman. In the VAO Aviation, Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen announced that, on the basis of the recommendations of the Research Council on Security concerning the safety of Schiphol Airport, she is probably well-known by the Secretary of State, who is charmed by the idea of strongly supporting opponents and powers of residents and interest groups in their need for knowledge. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do the same for nature organisations? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u6	Thanks to Mr. Van Raan. I call Mrs Diks van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The last day before the recess is always a race against the clock, so I'll keep it short. Actually, it's a shame that this bill is now before us. Since 2008, the State has had time to draw up an airport decision for the military airports on the basis of the Aviation Act. Unfortunately, for the airports De Kooy, Gilze-Rijen, Woensdrecht and De Peel, it was not possible to have such a decision ready in time. If the Chamber does not adopt this bill, which allows for a further extension of the transitional period, these military airports will no longer be able to be used from 1 November. The Secretary of State writes that there are two reasons for this. The first is the lack of manpower and expertise created by the cuts. The second reason is that the preparation of environmental impact assessments and noise calculations takes longer than previously thought, for example because current developments need to be taken into account, such as the arrival of the F-35. The first is, of course, fixable, especially now that the Defense Department has an extra budget. However, following this extension, a new extension is no longer possible. I assume, therefore, that the Secretary of State will do everything in his power to set up a proper and sustained decision-making process in the coming years. I'd like to confirm that. When it comes to environmental impact assessments and noise calculations, care must naturally be taken. Having military airports is vital for the Netherlands, but in order to maintain sufficient support for this, Defence needs to be well aware of the major impact on residents and the environment. In addition, of course, nuisance must be avoided as much as possible. I assume the Secretary of State will see this as well, but I would appreciate it if she would confirm that again today. As former environmental alderman of Leeuwarden, I have experienced the conversation between local residents, local government and Defense for many years. I know how difficult the Defense Mills can be. At the same time, I have seen that in Leeuwarden, the Defense Department finally set itself up to reduce the nuisance as much as possible and, for example, put in place a permanent sound measurement network. If it could be in Leeuwarden, I wouldn't know why that would be impossible in Gilze-Rijen. That is why I would like to ask the Secretary of State a number of questions. Can you explain why, contrary to the generally applicable Lden standard, you maintain the so-called cost units for the calculations of the noise load? This must be done while the Lden standard is mandatory under the European Environmental Noise Directive. I understood from the petition that neighbors from the base offered to the Chambers Committee that the sound contours around Gilze-Rijen are extra large because of the positioning as reserve airfield for F-16s. Since this situation rarely occurs, I ask the Secretary of State if she does not agree with me that it would be wiser to use the extension of the validity of the time limit now to make an exception to the law for this particular circumstance rather than to allow the enlarged contours on a daily basis for years to come. GroenLinks would like to encourage the Secretary of State to look at creative solutions to minimise the nuisance for people, nature and the environment, because it is clear that Defence personnel should also be able to practice reallife. But maybe some of the exercises could also be completed with simulators. Mr Van Raan also mentioned this. In the report, the Secretary of State is already responding to the use of simulators. Is the Secretary of State prepared to examine the possibilities of further intensifying the use of simulators? Mr. Chairman. In Leeuwarden, as has been said, there has been a lot of unrest over the noise pressure that the Air Force base placed on the environment for a long time, but after long struts and deliberts, Defense, the local residents and the local government were able to come to good cooperation. GroenLinks will agree to the bill, but I would ask the Secretary of State to use the next period of the extension to achieve a supported cooperation in Gilze-Rijen as well. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Diks. I call Mrs Belhaj of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mr. Chairman. We have been able to take note of the legislative proposal to extend the period during which instructions under the Military Aviation Act will remain valid. There's some resistance from neighbors to the Secretary of State's plans. In particular, the residents of Gilze-Rijen Airport do not agree with the extension. The Commission's preliminary opinion on the and the 800 views confirm this. D66 shares the concerns of the neighbors. Mr. Chairman. A number of specific questions to the Secretary of State regarding the situation surrounding Gilze-Rijen. How does the Secretary of State deal with the shortcomings consulted in the Commission's preliminary opinion for the m.e.r. correct? I read that the Secretary of State intends to present a simulator vision and that several concrete simulator projects are being prepared or implemented. However, I wonder to what extent this relates to the situation in Gilze-Rijen and what these intentions could actually mean for the situation in Gilze-Rijen. Is the Secretary of State investigating any other alternatives? And how does the Secretary of State intend to deal with the consequences of the so-called rattle noise, noise that is very annoying and that moves everything in your home, of the Chinooks in the zoning? Mr. Chairman. After the extension, we are going to have a three-year transition period. What is the Secretary of State going to do in concrete terms to monitor current contours in order to prevent exceedances? Is the Secretary of State prepared, for example, to set up a fixed measuring network for the period when the noise zone has not yet been established?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u10	Thank you, Mrs Belhaj. I call Mrs Bruins Slot of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u11	Mr. Chairman. I liked the way Mrs Belhaj pronounced the title of the whole law in one breath. That makes sure I don't have to at least do that. I will begin briefly by saying that the CDA can support the extension of this law. I do wish, on behalf of the CDA, that this is the last extension and that the Secretary of State will really ensure that everything that remains is resolved in three years' time. For the CDA it is important that soldiers can train and practice well in the Netherlands. This is necessary in order to have an effective armed force. At the same time, it is of course also important to avoid unnecessary nuisance for residents. I think Mrs Diks just gave a nice example of how Leeuwarden really tried to shape that. I see several places in the Netherlands where Defence has made sure that unnecessary nuisance is avoided in a very constructive way. That requires careful coordination and it often takes time. That is why we can also support the extension of this law. We believe that care in this process is more important than speed. We have also read in the text of the Secretary of State that this delay is necessary because it requires specific knowledge and skills. I understand that, in fact, very few people within the Defense Department have this very specialist expertise. Then it's also nice that they can do that job well. The Secretary of State does indicate that she wants to strengthen that human capacity. My question is: how exactly is she going to do that? The CDA is aware that the extension of this law is not one-on-one the same as the adoption of the aviation decisions. Mr Van Raan made that clear. But one is conditional for the other to be able to do it carefully. Last Tuesday we received a petition from Mrs Van Hapert. Mrs Van Hapert has filed the petition from Gilze-Rijen on behalf of neighbors and her helicopter working group Grote Spie, if I remember correctly. Before the general consultation material, I actually talked to the Secretary of State about Gilze-Rijen. She said some fine things at the time, including that she would come back to the Chamber in the autumn with additional information. Now that someone has offered a petition and has shown that they have a basis for what they are doing, I think it is important to enter into this debate on a number of points in that petition. The first concerns the use of simulators, as the Party for Animals, D66 and GroenLinks have already pointed out. The Secretary of State writes that she is working on a vision of the use of simulators and their consequences for training and training. When will this vision be ready? How is it used in the implementation of aviation decisions? The CDA finds it positive that, in addition to technical flight training, there are now also projects to enable tactical flight training in simulators. The Secretary of State is working on the Multi-ship project, multi-type helicopter simulator. This allows you to simulate training with multiple helicopters, which means that you can train the tactical performance of Mr. Bosman. I see Mr. Bosman nodding. What is the timetable of this project? This project is definitely going to take a few more years. Before then, of course, there is also a lot of training to be done, for example by Chinooks. Are there temporary solutions, for example for Gilze-Rijen, to further broaden the training in the simulator? The second question concerns the calculation system. I will not repeat what Mrs Diks said about it, because that all sounded like the right system. Then I'm talking about the Lden system and that sort of thing. The essence is that the petitioner asks why a particular computational system is being used and not that other system. Third. The reserve field function is, of course, also a very important issue. What about whether or not you can work with an exemption? Mr President, I will conclude. The questions I have just asked do not really see this law, but one does result from the other. I conclude that the CDA can at least support this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u12	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u13	Very briefly. Does the CDA agree with us that, in addition to calculating using the new system or the other system, it would also be very good if concrete measurements were made via a concrete measuring point with a microphone, so that the sound strength can actually be measured in real time online?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u14	I have to say in all honesty that I'm not very well at home in those systems. So if Mr Van Raan is linking the system to measuring it or not, I cannot tell him whether it is a combination or not. However, I know from Leeuwarden's practice that it was chosen to measure at certain times. I actually assume that this has happened in the lead path for the EIA. Anyway, I'm going to go on slippery ice if I'm going to say something about the substance of connecting those specific systems. I'd like to leave that to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u15	I get that. The best ice is of course also smooth ice; you do not want to sit on stiff ice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u16	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u17	Let's just wait and see what's said about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u18	Thank you. Mr Bosman of the VVD has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u19	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the extension of the Aviation Act with regard to military aerodromes. According to the documents, by law of 18 December 2008, Defense was required to transpose the current Aviation Act into the current Aviation Act on the basis of the Aviation Act. This conversion takes time. Unfortunately, there has not yet been an aviation decision for each military aerodrome within the ten-year deadline. Decisions have been made about the various air bases Leeuwarden, Deelen, Eindhoven and Volkel. For the other four, i.e. Gilze-Rijen, Woensdrecht, De Peel and De Kooy, it would not be possible to extend this law from those locations as of 1 November. However, it is important to stress that this debate concerns the extension of the current Aviation Act, and not the draft airport decisions currently under negotiation. However, I would like to comment briefly on those airport decisions. It is a pity that these have not been completed within the time limit set, but it is important that good airport decisions are taken. We know that the De Kooy airport decision can be agreed before 1 November and in the case of Woensdrecht we are still waiting for the environmental impact report that will probably be ready in October. I would also like to mention the Gilze-Rijen airport decision. Last Tuesday, we received a petition from the inhabitants of Gilze-Rijen, expressing concerns about noise pollution, including the rattle noise, Mrs Belhaj explained that excellently from the Chinook helicopters. The VVD is familiar with the problem and it is important that the concerns of the inhabitants are taken seriously. Can the Secretary of State indicate how contact with the municipality of Gilze-Rijen is going and how the concerns of the inhabitants are being addressed? This is important for the establishment of a good airport decision. Mr. Chairman. We are talking here about the extension of the current Aviation Act. Putting flying equipment on the ground now has an effect on the practicability and basic readiness of the armed forces. In the petition, the inhabitants of Gilze-Rijen also agree with the importance of the practice of the kites. As far as the VVD is concerned, therefore, the current Aviation Act is being extended and we are waiting for these new airport decisions, where proper consultation with the residents is of the utmost importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u20	Thank you. Finally, Mr Kerstens of the PvdA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The cabinet is asking us again today to extend the deadline for the necessary airport decisions for a number of military airports. Almost ten years after the entry into force of the law that made the new decisions necessary, half of the airports have now been successful, and the other half have not. If we do not allow this extension, the third one now, then the last group of airports De Kooy, De Peel, Gilze-Rijen and Woensdrecht can no longer be used. That would be a bad thing for the Defense Department, but it would also be a bad thing for others. That is why the Labour Party can accept the requested postponement. However, we assume that this delay will also be used to reach a supported decision on, for example, Gilze-Rijen, supported by the municipality of Gilze and Rijen, the province of North Brabant and, above all, the inhabitants of the area. It can't be that Gilze-Rijen's decision is suddenly there after the summer. Pieces that we have received today seem to leave the possibility open. It would be good if the Secretary of State indicated that this would not happen, suddenly a decision on Gilze-Rijen before 1 November. As far as the PvdA is concerned, that possibility must be removed. If we allow further postponement for decision-making in a general sense, let us agree that we will also use that postponement to take seriously objections, but also suggestions from the municipality, the province and residents in this case. There'll be time for that later, and as far as I'm concerned, so should we. Those objections are serious enough and the suggestions are worth considering. Moreover, I note that the Secretary of State does mention in the documents that, for example, six objections have been raised with regard to the proposed decision on De Kooy, but nothing says about the fact that there are 800 around Gilze-Rijen. That says something, 800 objections, or views as it is officially called. They must be taken seriously as far as the Labour Party is concerned. It is therefore necessary, in consultation with the neighbours, to say the least, to look at the possibilities and opportunities. With the decision that the government now intends to take on Gilze-Rijen, the noise and vibration burden will increase considerably, with effects on people's health and well-being, and housing will almost become impossible in a lot of places at a time of high housing shortage. As far as I'm concerned, we shouldn't wear Gilze and Rijen to watch all the young people leave because there's no place. Last week, we were allowed to refer to colleagues there, who received a petition signed by many people from Gilze and Rijen, with a list of clear points of view. I would like briefly to mention a few of them, following the example of my fellow Members. No expansion of the so-called sound contours, so the number of flight movements above inhabited area. Gilze and Rijen already suffer most from noise from all the Brabant municipalities. A good protection against the so-called rattle noise, so when flying over the Chinooks the cups and dishes dance over the table. Adjusting the way in which noise is calculated so as to better match the actual noise level. Seriously consider, for example, the use of simulators for training and maintaining pilot skills. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say something about the proposed decision that Gilze-Rijen will also have a strong reserve field function, so that, in addition to helicopters stationed there, aircraft can also land and take off if necessary. This will make sure that in certain village centers no longer can be built at all. Defence's wish can also be secured in a different way, through the granting of an exemption where appropriate. Moreover, this would be better suited to the fact that that reserve field function has not actually been used in the past 12 years. There are other, more suitable reserve fields. These are all important issues which do not jeopardise the core tasks that are carried out from the outset. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how she looks at this and whether she shares my remark to arrive at a supported decision, a remark that other colleagues have also made. The inhabitants of Gilze and Rijen and surrounding areas see the base as a good neighbor. It would be nice if that good neighbor would take their interests seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u22	Thanks to Mr. Kerstens. I'll suspend for five minutes. Then we'll continue with the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u23	The floor is for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think there is still a lot of work going on on motions and getting signatures for them, but I will start by answering the questions. I have heard the sound of the Chamber, and also the wonder, perhaps even irritation, when it comes to the fact that this bill is before us. I share that, in the sense that we had previously agreed to amend these airport decisions, and unfortunately not all of them have succeeded. Luckily for four of the eight military airports, yes. I have good hope that we will soon be able to complete the De Kooy base. So we've got three left. That will be three different airport decisions, because they have different backgrounds. At De Peel, for example, we are working to see what we want to do there at all, what that means and what consequence that has. So that's where we're really at the forefront. How are we gonna put that airport decision in place? Do we want something there as a DOD? What's it gonna take? Why? Within the framework of the Defence Note, but also within the framework of what you need from the Air Force and in support of the constitutional task, because that is of course why we consider this necessary: for the protection of the airspace of the Netherlands, but also for the practice and deployment of the armed forces worldwide. Then it is also necessary to keep the bases open and to keep them open, but also, of course, to take account of the environment. At De Peel we are at the start when it comes to: what does it mean and where can we go? At De Kooy I just indicated that I expect to come to a good conclusion soon. At Woensdrecht of course also plays the coming of the F-35, in combination with the things that we are going to develop there and that have to do with the warehouse that we are going to set up there, and that we are going to do the maintenance there. This means that we have to do a number of additional things there. That is also one of the reasons why was asked to conduct additional research at Woensdrecht. New things have been added and there are, of course, limited values when it comes to the sustainability of research that you are doing, namely two years. If there are some big developments then, you just have to start over again. So that's why, for example, at Woensdrecht, unfortunately, it hasn't been able to get it completed in time. As far as Gilze-Rijen is concerned, I believe that everyone has asked questions about this; I will go into the substance of the matter in this way. Over 800 have come in. We are now very much looking at that. The Commission, too, for the m.e.r. pointed out to us what was good in the EIA report, but also what we had to do in addition. That is what we are going to take together with the views to see how we can implement them. But I will come back to some of these aspects in substance. I hope, and I think that is also the hope expressed by everyone, that I do not have to stand here for a fourth time for such a bill. At least we're doing everything we can. We just need to get to that decision-making. I think that's good, too. Some of you have already referred to the debate with Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen when it comes to aviation. We're hanging out with each other. You have already received a number of letters on behalf of both of us. You will also soon receive a letter from both of us on the airspace review. We have to do that with each other. We are both the major users of airspace in the Netherlands: Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen from her responsibility for civil aviation, I am responsible for military aviation. The question is, of course, how can you shape the needs we both have towards the future? What's it gonna take? What is needed by airport? You know the process towards an airspace review. We will act in this together. It is also all the more reason to speed up airport decisions. Mrs Bruins Slot asks if there is enough capacity now. Yes. We're not just doing it within the Board of Directors. We involve the people of the Air Force, but also the Military Aviation Authority. The National Air and Space Laboratory also supports us. Sometimes we hire expertise because we just don't have it. Together with these cases, so external expertise, NLR, MLA, as well as just the Air Force itself and the Board staff within the Ministry of Defence, we think this should be feasible. Of course, a number of substantive things will emerge. Let me give you the example of De Peel, of which you will say yes or no. But that is just what we need to talk about in terms of content if the airport decision is actually in place. Then I would like to turn to a number of very specific questions. I'll start with Mr Van Raan. He asked: are you going to revise the EIA in its entirety in accordance with the Commission's opinion on the M.E.R.? Yeah, we're working on that. We will also send the supplementary EIA to the Commission for the m.e.r. to be able to come to an assessment again. We're already working hard on that. The other point that Mr Van Raan had a question about was whether the noise load will increase as a result of the F-35, also in relation to Gilze-Rijen. A sound zone has been established where the DOD should just stay inside. We cannot say: because the F-35 is coming, we suddenly no longer have to stay within that sound zone. In that sense, there is no increase in the noise load, because we are just dealing with that sound zone, where we have to stay inside. As a result, there is no increase in the noise load due to the F-35 for Gilze-Rijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u25	That is a clear answer from the Secretary of State. Now it is true that the current sound space is not yet fully used. So the question was not so much whether the standards are being maintained, because I believe they are. The question was whether this sound space would be used, thus increasing the noise burden for residents. That was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u26	That depends on the airport decision. We make that decision by airport decision, but you asked your question in relation to Gilze-Rijen and the arrival of the F-35. I have said that it is not the case that the noise load is increasing as a result of the F-35 and that we must stay within the noise zone. And we'll establish that sound zone with the airport decision. Of course, we are now facing a further intensification of the armed forces and the air force, which is desperately needed when it comes to our commitment, our readiness and our exercise. But that will be presented separately each time. In some areas there will be a desire to increase the number of flights. That will also happen in the discussion around Gilze-Rijen. It is not for nothing that a petition has been offered, because we are proposing a change. That will have to be submitted to you by airport. Of that you will say "fine" or perhaps not. We're gonna have to find out at a time. In any case, I have interpreted your question as: does the F-35 lead to higher noise levels in Gilze-Rijen? No, but if you are talking about the proposal we want to make in the airport decision, yes, it is because of more Chinooks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u27	For Gilze-Rijen the noise load does not increase, while there is still sound space. Then I can see that this is good news for the inhabitants of Gilze-Rijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u28	I can't entirely share your conclusion. I don't think I said that either. I have said that at Gilze-Rijen we can fortunately use more Chinooks from the military perspective. Of course, that means something to Gilze-Rijen. I deal with individual matters in such a way, but that means that there have been many objections, because people are worried and wonder: what does that mean for me? I think that Defence is more than welcome in every municipality, in the sense that everyone is proud and would like to see Defence play a role, also because of employment and involvement. But if you hear that there's more to it, then of course you ask the question: what does that mean for me? This is now the subject of a substantive discussion. That is also what the 800 views are about from the residents and others to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u29	Mr. Van Raan, this time. We'll do the rest of the interruptions in half.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u30	Mr President, thank you very much for the coulance. Then I note that the noise is likely to increase for the inhabitants of Gilze-Rijen, although the noise burden remains the same and there is still room for noise within the noise standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u31	No, Mr. Chairman, this summary doesn't add up either. We are now talking about extending this law. What you are talking about is the airport decision. I've tried to put it down so that that's another discussion. I have explained to you that if we move to more Chinooks, this obviously means something for the noise load. The question of staying inside the sound room must also be answered. But your question was whether it's happening now because of that F-35. I said: no, because we just have a sound zone, which we now have to keep. There is nothing else I can do now, as long as I have not taken another decision on the airport, and that is also being submitted to you. If you say: I don't like it at all, dear Secretary of State, yes, you can, of course, pronounce it. I don't recognize this summary. I think it is good, also because there may be people from Gilze-Rijen listening or sitting in the gallery, not to raise false expectations in matters that I did not at least say. I think it's just as good to put that down. Then there is Mr Van Raan's question about flying activities over Woensdrecht. He said: I read that you are looking at this when it comes to the damage to Natura 2000 sites and asked what I intend to do about it. What we are doing now is an impact assessment. This ultimately shows whether or not there are any disadvantages and if so, which ones. Only when that has been established can we take action if it is necessary. We're looking at it now. I haven't found a way out of that yet. A number of questions have been asked that are actually related to Gilze-Rijen's petition. I think everyone has asked what I do with these simulators and what the inhabitants of Gilze-Rijen can expect from them. Mrs. Bruins Slot asked for a vision of the simulators. That's what we're working on right now to see what's needed, because it doesn't just apply to Gilze-Rijen, but wider. As you know, Defence actively conducts policies to train as much as possible abroad to relieve the Netherlands as much as possible when it comes to noise. You have seen this weekend that the Chinooks have been deployed in the fire fighting in Hengelo. You have also seen how important it is, also for that domestic task, to be present here on the bases in order to be able to be deployed directly. But of course we are looking at how we can use simulators to simply achieve practicability and training. But I would like to tell you that this does not automatically mean that you will be able to achieve fewer flight movements. This is also part of the vision for which you need these simulators to support the deployment of the armed forces. How can you come to better readiness and better practice? The following I mention consciously, precisely in the context of expectation management. I do not yet share the view that this will automatically lead to fewer flight movements. I am not yet there, because it is part of the further development of what is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u32	That is clearly what the Secretary of State says. What I hear from the people in the area is that they often have a lot of trouble, for example from the circles around the church: quite simple flight movements that bring a fairly heavy load. Flying in and out is seen differently again. I believe that it is often from those people who live around me that I summarize flight movements that are highly repetitive and that are seen as circles around the church, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u33	At the NS they are a very big fan of that! But I understand what you're saying from the residents. Look, that's exactly why we're gonna see what we can do with simulators. That can be very pleasant for our people and also for the locals. I've just indicated that with your airports, you can only exist if you have support in your area. I see, in spite of the petition from Gilze-Rijen, that people explicitly embrace Defense. We need to emphasise those two sides. Mrs. Diks gave the example of Leeuwarden. You see everywhere that people realize that we have to be there. We are going to look specifically at what can be done in the context of these simulators and to what extent you can remove the nuisance. I also like Mrs Bruins Slot's example; how could you do that? So that's what we're gonna look at. But I would already like to say to you that it is not automatic that this leads directly to fewer flight movements. So we have to take a good look at that, because fortunately we can also invest. This means: making more effort, more practice and more flight hours. We try to find a good balance as to what that means for the immediate environment, whether in Woensdrecht, Gilze-Rijen, Leeuwarden or Volkel. We'll always have to find that balance. In that context, Mrs Bruins Slot also asked when the vision was ready. That will be in the autumn, and then I will send her to the Chamber. Then you have an image too. And to respond directly to Mr.Kerstens' question: no, we are not going to take the airport decision for Gilze-Rijen before 1 November 2018. I will first send you the vision of simulators; at least you will have that image, you know what we are doing, you know which way we want to go and what possibilities there are for that. Only then will the airport decisions come to you and you can form an opinion on what that might mean. The same applies to the needs of the Multi-type, multi-ship simulator, chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u34	Beautiful Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u35	Yes, very nice. The need will go to the Chamber before the end of this year. This is a tactical training simulator, as Mrs Bruins Slot herself pointed out. This is a typical example where it has not been said directly that you can reduce the number of flight movements. But I suggest that we can explain in that vision what we can and can't do, in order to achieve efficient and effective training for the kites and to see how far we can meet that need. The reserve field function has also been requested. This is also reflected in the petition offered by Gilze-Rijen...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u36	The question I had also asked is what temporary solutions exist when it comes to simulators, for example in certain aerodromes. I ask that question because the Secretary of State wanted to move on to another subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u37	It's not like we're gonna be able to get a simulator from somewhere for a while now. There are costs involved. That is why we need to see what we can do, especially in the context of this training but also in the context of this nuisance. This applies not only to Gilze-Rijen, but also to other airports. I know that suggestions have been made from Gilze-Rijen to do something in the neighborhood. We're just gonna talk to the municipality, but I don't want to raise false expectations here. I do not want it to be said: then it will come. So we need to see how it's done. And when it comes to those circles around the church, for example, it's good to see what's behind it and if we can organize it in a different way. I think that is also important for the discussion with Gilze-Rijen on why this is happening and whether there is any possibility of organising it in a different way. That could be done by means of a simulator. I also understand that this has to do with the training and training of air traffic controllers together with the kites. There's no other way? And what does that mean? Are there other possibilities, apart from a simulator?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u38	Mrs. Bruins Slot, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u39	I recognize what the Secretary of State says, and I also agree that our air force should be able to practice well. The inhabitants of Gilze-Rijen also say that they are proud of the soldiers who do so. The discussion with municipalities about the simulators has yet to take place. Is that in the fall? Or what am I supposed to imagine?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u40	Mr. Chairman. There are a lot of conversations with the municipality and they have already taken place in the past period. I myself spoke with the alderman of Gilze-Rijen. With this I immediately make a bridge to the following topic: one of the things that has been discussed was the reserve field function. I think it would be good to answer this in its entirety. More than 800 views have been submitted. The Commission for the m.e.r. has indicated that we need to supplement the EIA on a number of points, so we need to do that homework. We are working on this and we will be working on it in the autumn. In the meantime, of course, we are in conversation with the municipality. In that conversation, different topics pass by. That could be the circles around the church and how you could do that differently, but also the reserve field function. I made an appointment with the alderman about that. From the municipality of Gilze and Rijen it was indicated that it could be done in a different way. We were legally told that this could not be done. We said that we would put our questions together and we would ask a third to answer them. Then you can put those two images together and then it's not always "yes or no" but then it's just for both "what's the deal and there are alternatives?" These kinds of processes are now running in the sense that they are shut down. This is therefore part of the consultation that we will also have with the municipality of Gilze and Rijen, regardless of the formal procedure we have to go through with regard to the reactions to all views and the additions to the EIA. So there's a meeting. The same applies in the Netherlands to any airport, including military airports. Of course, this is also about the advisory committees that are around it: how can you involve them? In her letter, Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen spoke on behalf of me about how to strengthen the knowledge function and the insight. Mr Van Raan asked a question about this. That's what this is all about. That letter was signed by the Defense Department for a reason. This is not just about the airspace review, but also about involving participation. We all know the Alders concept. I know the debate in the Chamber on this file. In my view, there is a wide-ranging view, hence the fact that the Minister and I have taken over this................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then how can you give insight to the front? I just mentioned the example of the circles around the church, which Mrs Bruins Slot asked about: why is that so and can it not be done in another way? So I see the question about strengthening the knowledge position: can you at the front explain what is needed, what you are doing, whether there are alternatives and how it went? That is what has been called for, and we have already promised it in the letter sent to the Chamber. You will soon receive a letter on behalf of both of us on how we intend to tackle the airspace review, including participation in it. I had already made a small bridge to the reserve field function. I think everyone's been asking questions about that. For this reason, we are now looking at the questions asked and also at the point of view: are there other possibilities? I believe that Mr Kerstens has already indicated that this has not been used for 12 years. That's right, but for the Defense Department, it's important that we're now dealing with an expansion of the air force. That is why we need to look closely at what this means, also in the sense of: how can you meet the need that Defence has in the context of a constitutional task and do you need the reserve field function legally in this way or are there alternatives? That is the exploration I was just talking about in response to questions from Mrs Bruins Slot and what we are looking at: what options are there then? But I do think it is important to note that we have not ever set up that reserve field function for nothing. My experience is that once you give it away, you don't get it back so soon. So you must also be very aware of what this means. I believe that this should also be explicitly addressed in the airport decision itself: what are the pros and cons and what are the risks to the defence sector when it comes to the deployment of the air force in this area? It has also been asked why there has been no change from the Ke contours to the Lden standard, which also applies to civil aviation. That actually has to do with the petition from Gilze and Rijen. We are with the Commission for the m.e.r. in December 2017 also talked about this: can that and what does that mean? As you have read and also from the Commission's written response to the M.E.R. We are trying to see what this transition means, but it is not that simple, because it really is going to mean something by airport. That is also why we really need some time for this and we need to make this clear by airport, so also for the airports that have already been decided on in the past: what does that mean and what does it mean? Because it's not an arithmetic exercise or a technical conversion. If only, because then it was very simple. We have to do that. As regards Gilze and Rijen, we have a meeting with the advisory committee, the COVM, at the end of September of this year. Then, on our behalf, this aspect will be on the agenda, among other things, to see what this would mean here, whether it could and what it needs. Then all this has to be transposed into legislation. If we're gonna do this, that means I'm gonna come back to you and say, "This is the bill." Then we'll go into that procedure with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u41	You indicate that it is complicated to set up that conversion to that other standard, that Lden standard. I know the story. I know that; I do. But I think it's also a great pleasure for you to take away the idea that you're maintaining the old standard because that Defense Department is more convenient. I think that you, like us, at least I have heard it very widely, and I think you want to reduce the burden on residents as much as possible. The Lden standard could play a good and positive role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u42	Let one thing be very clear. I do not want too much space, which I do not need, because there are enough questions asked by residents and also by civil aviation. On the other hand, I do not want too little either, because I simply have a constitutional task, which you have given me, in the protection of the Netherlands and the Kingdom. We also need to protect airspace. It's about what standard you maintain when converting the Ke-contour to the Lden. If you now convert it by airport, there will be very different outcomes per airport. We will therefore have to look at what is real in this regard. We will do that together with the knowledge institutes. How do you get the right balance from every angle? That is the starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u43	I recognize that, and I appreciate that, too. It is precisely that the residents want to be assured by you that you do everything in your power to reduce the nuisance as much as possible and that you use the correct standards. The cost units give Defense a little more potential than the Lden standard. Of course, it makes sense for residents to argue for the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u44	Yeah, but I think you should be clear about what you need in this kind of discussion. That is why the questions about the reserve field function, for example, are right: why do you really need them? You should also realise that flying is just a nuisance. You need to see how to limit it, but this isn't a technical exercise. Then it would be fairly simple. Then you'd just convert the norm and that's it; we'll go back to the order of the day. You're trying to figure out how to do it in a good way. In Brabant, for example, Defense has three airports. So you have a lot of activities there in a very small area, and also of a different order, because Chinooks are different from other helicopters when it comes to sound intensity. So you have to look carefully at how to connect it. In a province like Brabant, the conversion of Ke to Lden by airport already has several indications. You should take a good look at that. What standard do you set? Is it sustainable and what does that mean? Does that norm give room, even in the balance with the residents? That's what we have to do, and that's what we're doing. In September, the conversion for Gilze-Rijen will be on the agenda. Then let's see how we fill it out. Mr Bosman specifically asked about the municipality of Gilze and Rijen. So we are now working on the formal route, the position and the complement to the Commission for the first time. Then we will also formally enter into consultation with the municipality. In the meantime, of course, informal consultations are also taking place on Gilze-Rijen, for example with the alderman. We are also in consultation with, for example, the province of Brabant about what we do around Eindhoven airbase and also about Woensdrecht. Because that is where new developments are needed. There is therefore continuous consultation on what is needed. So the Gilze-Rijen Air Base is also on a separate committee. I shall read it out: that is the Committee on Information and Environment, so the COVM. That is a public, regular consultation that we have. There will also be a number of aspects that I have just mentioned. So there is formal and informal consultation and we are trying to look at solutions. I can't tell you which one it's gonna be, because it's a lot of research, and I don't think you should promise anything if you're not sure you're gonna be able to do it at all. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Raan asked about the limitation of flying after 10 p.m. Is there any provision for enlargement? No, there is no expansion planned, but there is sometimes a need to be able to fly after 10 p.m., for example for the practice in night flying that you just have to practice sometimes and for return from Share, but it is not the intention to expand it. At least what we do, we want to continue. So I do not foresee enlargement on this point. Then we've been asked if we can activate the measuring grid. We're legally required to calculate the sound. We are. For this purpose, different flight movements count differently, for example during the day or at night. That is probably why a question was asked about after 10 p.m. It is also not possible to measure that calculation or that legal basis. But I can imagine that we're looking at the need of residents to get a sense of what comes out of it. I suggest that, in consultation with the residents of Gilze and Rijen, we look at whether we can do a limited trial, so that we can first see what it means and what can be done. A measuring network is really subject to additional conditions, requirements and finance. I'd like to take a closer look at that first. But I suggest we look at a limited trial. We have done this before in Leeuwarden, for example. We've been looking into what's going on and what's going on. I suggest we see if we can start this in Gilze and Rijen as well. This will enable us to respond to the wishes expressed by the residents. I think I answered the questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u45	That's good. But I believe that one question from Mr Bosman may not have been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u46	The questions have been answered very well. I don't need a second term either. Only the discussion about the circle around the church is less to me. Starting and landing is very important for aircraft, but also for helicopters. They do circuit flying. The "circle around the church" may not be quite the right term. It is certainly important to allow men and women to fly and start and land the circuit properly. So it's not just a circle around the church.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u47	The Secretary of State. It wasn't really a question. It was a remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u48	It was a cry of hearts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u49	A cry of hearts. I'm looking at the members. Who needs a second term? Mr Van Raan and Mr Kerstens. Mr Van Raan has the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much for the many answers and commitments that have been made. That is very much appreciated. Honestly, it remains cloaked in mists whether the sound of Gilze-Rijen increases or not. I've posted two theories. A: it's increasing. Well, that wasn't right. B: it's not increasing. That wasn't right either. It could still be the same. That's another possibility. We'll leave it open for the Secretary of State. Or it's a lot different, but that's what we'd like to hear. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have three encouraging motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several residents of military airports are dissatisfied with cooperation with these airports and often do not feel taken seriously;]] [[calls on the Government to strongly encourage military airports to act as a good neighbour,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34932-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u51	One more on the number of flight movements. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to include the measured number of flight movements in the maintenance of noise zones around military airports,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34932-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u52	And another important, more philosophically tinted motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to consider in a broad sense whether the number of military airports currently available can be reduced,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34932-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u53	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u54	Thank you. Finally, Mr Kerstens has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u55	Thank you, Mr President. I have one motion, co-signed by Mr Van Raan. I'm going to read it to you, but only after I thank the Secretary of State for her clear answers. I have also heard her say a lot about advisory committees and consultation with stakeholders. But the Secretary of State also knows that this is not yet experienced by everyone. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the municipality of Gilze and Rijen, the province of Noord-Brabant and many local residents raised objections and alternatives to the proposed airport decision concerning the Gilze-Rijen Airport;]] [[Considering that the extension proposed by the Cabinet of the deadline for taking the necessary airport decisions in respect of a number of military airports allows for careful procedures in this respect;]] [[considers that this is in the interest of both Defence and other mentioned parties;]] [[invites the Cabinet to consider, in consultation with interested parties such as those mentioned above, how a supported decision can be reached and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kerstens and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34932-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u56	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u57	Yes, Mr President, and at the request of Mr Bosman, I will no longer use the term "circle around the church" in this debate and in "circle flying." In response to Mr Van Raan, I would like to say the following. I think I have spoken more than clearly about what is coming to Gilze-Rijen. If we went to more Chinooks, it means we're gonna do more flights there. And that also means something for the sound room. The question of whether the movements that take place there remain within the established sound contours is then the discussion that you find in the airport decision. I believe that this is more than clear and that there can be no ambiguity as to which commitment is or is not. We will include this in the airport decision when it comes to Gilze-Rijen. Then I come to the motion on part No. 6 by Mr Van Raan and Christmas. I understand the intention behind the motion, but I don't want to generalize it as if every military airport doesn't feel taken seriously. As far as Gilze-Rijen is concerned, it is very clear, because the 800 views will not come for nothing. So that signal is also more than clear, in the sense that there is an explicit mismatch between the sense of what Defence says and does versus whether one is open to the suggestions. So I really take that to heart. But taking over this for Leeuwarden, Volkel and Eindhoven, is something I really don't recognize. Of course I agree with the importance of a good neighbour, but I really have difficulty considering the motion to take over for all airports.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u58	I think the Secretary of State is quite right about that. I propose that we delete the observation and leave the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u59	Where you now want to change your motion to the interrupting microphone, I must be as strict, because we are expected to have a lot more motions today. You'll have to formally file that motion through the Registry modified.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u60	I've already had some advice from the Chamber, Mr. Chairman, just to take him over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u61	Take over anytime!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u62	That is possible, but this motion is not for the reason I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u63	It will also have to be retabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u64	So a modified motion could do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u65	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u66	I think it would be better to give the amended motion rather than the judgment Chamber in terms of procedure, but I also look at the Registrar. I suggest that I move on to the rest of the motions, then that could possibly be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u67	We'll get back to that in a minute. The motion in part No. 7.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u68	I do indeed come to the motion in part No. 7. The number of flight movements is part of the sound zoning we have. The flights carried out shall be determined and calculated and recorded. We do so in accordance with the Military Airports Registration and Provision Scheme. The military aviation authorities shall also monitor the proper implementation of this registration. On this basis, for example, the NLR, the National Air and Space Laboratory, again calculates the noise load that has been done for each airport. So what you're asking is actually happening and that's why your motion is unnecessary. And I'll advise against it...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u69	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u70	... because this is already happening. That's kind of like the sun's shining and the sun's shining. I understand the intention, but I hope that I have also answered your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u71	The motion in part No. 7 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u72	The motion in part No. Eight, I'm telling you, I'm telling you. I already said something about this at the VAO before. It is the first time in 25 years that such a substantial sum has been added for the Defense Department. That's what's needed. Fortunately, this means that we can invest in the practicability and readiness of the armed forces, including the equipment. And that also means something for the air force, when it comes to the number of flight hours that our people can make, but also the number of helicopters, the number of F-35s that are going to come. So there we will explicitly not do less, so is the expectation, but more, also looking at the threat situation in the world. It didn't get any less when we looked at the security situation. And you have to realize that if you remove some bases, that means more pressure on other bases. So in that sense, you also move the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u73	Mrs Diks on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u74	Would you be willing to include it in the new Defence Note in 2020, if we have a much better and wider picture of what we're all going to do with Defence in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u75	There will be this review, but I have just indicated to you that we are in the process of revising the airspace. One of the things we do from the Defence Department, for example, is indicate what we need in terms of the use of airspace, whether that's from our helicopters, from the F-16s or the F-35s, but also what our expectations are towards the future. Then you're talking about scenarios. Of course, that is always a competence of the Chamber, but imagine that you should expand, which sound space do you need in addition because you want to make more flight movements in the Netherlands? So this whole enlargement or not is a political decision, but we are already taking part in the revision of airspace, precisely because it is also forward-looking and we should just do it. So that's what's in it and from the DOD we've actually already done our homework to look at, also in growth scenarios, which means in terms of sound space. This will also be involved in the airspace review, but of course you will be further informed. And then the motion to part No. 9. I'm just looking, because this one's more specific to Gilze-Rijen. I understand the background to this call and I share it. That will also be my intention, but I would like to make a comment on this, which of course concerns the word 'beared'. I cannot now predict that from all the consultations that we are going to do now there will not be a result that some people will still be dissatisfied with and that in that sense there will be no adopted decision, but on the basis of the weighting that we think is the best decision. So if I can read the motion in this way, Mr Kerstens is already standing at the microphone, I would say that the judgment is up to the Chamber. But if "weared" means that everyone has to agree, I already know that we are not going to realize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u76	Mr. Kerstens, can you live with that, with this interpretation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u77	As the Secretary of State himself said, I have also mentioned in my first term that more than 800 views have been submitted. I believe that Defence and the Secretary of State will do their best, but it could be that not all the 800 will be equally satisfied. That's clear. So the Secretary of State can read the motion in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u78	Then the motion gets to part No. 9, therefore, judge Room. I shall return to Mr Van Raan's first motion. He gets judgment room, because she's changed. So the amended Van Raan motion gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u79	(NL) Mr President, is this about the motion on item No. Six? Didn't I tell you I was taking over?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u80	An amended motion can never be accepted. The motion had to be changed. Mr Van Raan has indicated that he will do so. Then she gets judgment room. You can never take a modified motion. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u81	The motions will be put to the vote this evening.
