ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the defence budget. A very warm welcome to the two ministers, Minister and Secretary of State, to all the people in the public gallery and, of course, to my colleagues. You're going to have a very nice day together. It is not often that a budget is completed in one day, so let's hope for a lot of good coffee and a nice debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u2	We will soon start with Mrs Popken of the PVV as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. We're discussing the defense budget today. This budget is the financial impact of the Defence Note, which was discussed last spring. According to these two rulers, this is the way up. Over the past decades, our armed forces have been in the window and they have been broken down to the bare minimum. The basic readiness was compromised. The Netherlands was no longer able to defend its own territory independently, according to the previous minister. The staff was empty. Good, experienced soldiers left and their experience and knowledge were and are needed missed. But, Mr President, the bottom of the poison cup has not yet been reached. Defense is still facing a lot of incidents on both social and physical security. We all know the terrible stories of Schaarsbergen, the winter coats that were ordered too late, exercises with real bullets on linen walls, mortars that were rejected yet used, journalists who can enter without control barracks and the huge tragedy around chrome-6. Mr. Chairman. More and more the organization seems to be the worst enemy of the military. More and more often, it seems more difficult to fight against internal bureaucracy than against the enemy. More and more, it becomes clear what the cuts have done to the Defense Department. And the way up may have been used, but there is still a very, very long way to go. As far as PVV is concerned, the focus should be on the recovery, on the way forward, and on our men and women and protecting our beautiful Netherlands. But this cabinet once again has an enormous missionary urge. The international ambition is too high. I am not just saying this: the General Court of Auditors recently indicated that the mission in Mali is overtaking the entire Defence Organisation. And the reaction of this cabinet wasn't shouting out loud. Putting the report away in a crowded AO, extending the mission in Mali for another six months and entering into another mission in Afghanistan. Who does the Minister actually listen to when she determines and implements her policy? Clearly not to the opinions of the General Court! Mr. Chairman. We were able to see the minister last week. She and the Prime Minister were very clear about a European army. The Netherlands does not want an EU army. A larger middle finger to D66 within the Defence portfolio is not really possible, and my group can only appreciate that. Keep up the good work! On the other hand, we all know Rutte's promises: not a penny more to the Greeks and €1,000 for everyone. So I'm not exactly cheering yet. Mr. Chairman. The PVV wants the basics in order. Within the Defense Department, security must be at one level and guaranteed. Only then can we think again about entering into missions and not the other way around, as this cabinet does. The fact that the Netherlands needs to be safer also proves itself by the following. As a warning, a severed head is placed in front of a bar. A car of a competing gang is being shot at with Kalashnikovs. Almost weekly, even last week, there are incidents with hand grenades. A magazine headquarters is shot with a rocket launcher. Mayors have to go into hiding and can no longer appear in public. I'm not even talking about the countless public executions that can be seen every week in Search Requested. And anyone who thinks I'm talking about Mexico, Colombia or any other narcostate is wrong. These incidents all took place in the Netherlands. And whoever thinks it's a Randstad problem is wrong, too. The forests in Brabant are polluted almost weekly with waste from synthetic drugs; highly toxic and highly explosive. There is only one possible conclusion: the drugs world is free in the Netherlands. But fortunately, that is also a task of the Defense Department, to assist the police to maintain public order. That's what we saw yesterday in a big action in Velddriel, Kerkdriel, Sittard, Kerkrade and Heerlen. Mr. Chairman. Defense protects what's dear to us. That's why we're using the Royal Navy against the drug cartels in the Caribbean. Successfully, because with great regularity, our men and women are able to intercept drug shipments. Our Royal Marechaussee protects our borders and regularly catches drugs in our ports and airports. And then there's our army. Unfortunately, it is often used afterwards, once the suffering has already been done, when another hand grenade has been found on the street or when drug waste has to be disposed of. But why don't we put these in the front more often? Why don't we turn the army against these organized drug cartels? My question to the Minister is: how does the Minister feel about using our army more often to make our own streets and forests safe again, as happened yesterday, but more often? We need to tackle not only the drug cartels in the Caribbean, but also the cartels in the Netherlands. We must try to make the streets in Tilburg, or in this case Sittard, safe and not just the streets in Iraq, Syria or Lebanon. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The PVV wants the Netherlands to regain control of our own territory. We want to decide who comes in. We do not want our country to be flooded by jihadists and terrorists who want to cut their necks with knives. In our beautiful Netherlands there is no place for these terrorists and their pernicious ideology. They're not supposed to come in here. Those who are already inside may, as far as we are concerned, be expelled as soon as possible. Here too, the knife cuts both ways. Because a dense border also means that you can control not only what and who comes in, but also that you can control what goes out of the country. This too will be a huge blow against drug crime. Because let's face it, our drug industry has a turnover of 18.9 billion. That's twice the defense budget we're discussing today. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say a few words during this budget to our veterans and one group in particular, the KNIL veterans. They only received their recognition very late, for many even too late. Respect and restoration for these forgotten heroes of the Netherlands transcend party politics as far as my party is concerned. Fortunately, there is broad support for this in society too. But this broad support also involves the government fulfilling its financial obligations. I would like a comprehensive response from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. I'm addressing my final words to the Marines. You're Dutch heroes. You are ready for peace and security in the Netherlands and far beyond wherever in the world, as you yourself say. Unfortunately, not everyone here feels that way about you. One party was wondering if you guys weren't pussies. The other party is wondering if you wouldn't be better off merging with the Airmobile Brigade. Some see you as a gift to the king's commissioner. And some people, I don't mention names like always, dare not to see colour or take a stand. Here's what I'm gonna say to these Marines. During your training you will learn an important lesson: dare to return. Unfortunately, that is a lesson that does not always penetrate politics here. The Regents don't usually come back to wrong decisions, but muddle through, and in this case with you as victims. Through you, Chairman, I would like to say to you: remember that you are for the PVV heroes. The PVV will continue to fight for you and your barracks in Doorn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you. Mr Bosman of the VVD has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. In 2019 it is 75 years since the battle for the Scheldt was fought and won. A battle that is not very important, but as commander-in-chief of the Allied forces Dwight D. Eisenhower then said: "the end of the Nazidom was clearly visible when the first ship sailed unhindered the Scheldt." That is an important observation made by the commander-in-chief at the time. Our freedom is not self-evident and should never be. All those men and women who work in the past, in the present and in the future for our freedom and security must continue to be remembered, honored and respected. That freedom is under greater pressure today than we sometimes think. Things are going pretty well in the Netherlands: the trains are running on time, the shops are full and Saint Nicholas is back in the country. Then you don't always think about the geopolitical threats in the world. But that is the job of our politicians. We are monitoring what is going on in the Netherlands, in Europe and in the world, and we are making sensible choices. Our security, identity and economy are threatened from abroad, including by aggressiveness and instability in the ring around Europe. That ring runs from Russia through the Middle East to North Africa, through illegal mass migration, terrorism and trade wars. Within the European Union, countries such as Poland and Hungary are trying to undermine the European rule of law. The weak financial and economic position of some NATO Member States makes them receptive to outside pressure, particularly from Russia, which undermines an effective NATO policy. Turkey is the best example of this. With regard to military armament, this country is increasingly focusing on Russia, which is a risk to the NATO alliance. At the same time, we owe most of our freedom to our foreign allies and can protect our values and identity in and with NATO. NATO is therefore the cornerstone of our security for the VVD. Within NATO we train, train and commit and the lines of communication are clear. The VVD is against a European army. I am glad that this cabinet under the leadership of the Prime Minister is so crystal clear about this. Europe is not yet in a position to enforce the commitments made under the Stability and Growth Pact for countries that do not comply, at least not for the large countries, because the little ones are just getting the choice. As long as such agreements are violated, it is unthinkable for the VVD that Dutch soldiers should be sent to war by Jean-Claude Juncker. We are certainly in favour of working together within Europe. There are plenty of very good examples of this. Think of the Belgian-Dutch cooperation in the Navy, the BeNeSam, the first German armored division, which is fully integrated with the 43rd mechanized brigade, and the UK/NL Amphibious Force of the Marine Corps together with the Royal Marines. These are all good examples of cooperation, but they are not examples of a European army. It is only when the European Commission will carry out the control over the use of Dutch soldiers without the intervention of the Dutch cabinet and parliament. For the VVD this is a bridge too far, indiscusable and also a waste of time, because we must now work on cooperation and improving the basic capacity and strength of the Dutch armed forces, but actually of all European armed forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u6	Before you proceed, Mrs Karabulut has a question. I'd like to agree with you that we'll do the interruptions in half.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u7	The VVD is against a European army. However, there is now a European war spot called a 'peace facility' with a euphemism. It's 10.5 billion. A proposal is under preparation through the European Commission. Does the VVD, together with the SP, say today at the end of the debate: we are not going to do that; we are already going to use a clear no in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u8	No. That's a clear no. What matters to me is that we make agreements within Europe. There are a number of issues on which we consider it important to work together. The merging of this European Defence Fund is very important. We need to see how we can do it best. In any case, I am going to say no in advance, because the European Defence Fund gives room for good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u9	The VVD says, on the one hand, that it does not want a European army, but, on the other hand, the VVD is unclear about this pot that can be armed and operated on a global basis outside the EU budget and perhaps outside your beloved NATO. At the same time the VVD now says: yes, but still I want that problem... You are going to let that European army mess up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u10	No. We have had this discussion recently during the WHO, because I have serious questions about it. I think it should be clear what the powers are, but then I think you talk more about the European Peace Initiative, at least about that other story: the European... At least it's not about the Defense Fund. The Defence Fund is basically the kind of money that comes together. I hear from the minister outside the microphone that it's the European Peace Facility. Excuse me. That's a different story than the Defense Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mrs Karabulut, just to clarify.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u12	That's exactly what my question was about: it's called "peace facility," but it's a war spot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u13	I have had the discussion about the name and asked what will happen, what the conditions will be and how that money will be spent. I have absolutely no need for a European Commission that can go to war as it pleases. I don't need that. There are preconditions, it must be clear what the money is spent on and where it can be done. We asked these questions during the legislative consultation. I don't have an answer to that yet. I believe that it should also be discussed in the European Council. Those are important moments to get together. I share Mrs Karabulut's criticism. I also share the concern. But I am waiting for the answers to be given exactly how that is to be completed. Absolutely, on the European Peace Facility I am somewhat critical; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u14	Before you continue your speech, Mrs Belhaj has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u15	I now understand how the VVD sees this European army and its concerns. The European Peace Facility is a way of doing European missions. That will be decided in the short term. This means that we have a foreign and security policy and that we are based on it where, for example, we want to carry out missions in Africa. Does Mr Bosman call such a European mission a 'European army' or, if not, what does he call it? Because there are Dutch soldiers going along with those missions, aren't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u16	That comparison is very simple, because we do not call NATO 'NATO army' either. It's just NATO. We provide troops there on the basis of the choice made by the Dutch parliament, or even more so: the cabinet makes that choice, and it is then supported by the parliament. The cabinet is giving those troops under the command of someone from NATO. The same applies to Europe. The troops are added by the Dutch Cabinet and the Dutch Parliament to anything, but on the basis of our choices. We must beware of the term 'European army' when we work together, because it is not. The power lies and remains here as far as the VVD is concerned. In fact, cabinet, parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u17	We have discussed before that NATO is of course not entirely comparable to what we are doing in Europe today. NATO has its own treaty to which the Netherlands has committed itself and on the basis of which a commitment is subsequently made. So that's not exactly comparable. In Europe, we are going to decide to establish a foreign and security policy and, on that basis, to use the European peace-enforcement. If you say that we can agree to this in Parliament, then they will be deployed, what do you call it? I call that a 'European military force', but you seem to call that different. Together deploying Dutch military forces in another country on the basis of a European foreign and security policy: what do you call it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u18	Then I'll have Mrs Belhaj explain what she thinks, because I'm confused now. It's very simple for me. If troops are deployed without the intervention of the cabinet or parliament, it is not negotiable for the VVD, no matter what you call it. It's as simple as that. When D66 says that we are not about to put troops under command, but just under the political control of the European Commission, I would like to hear it from Mrs Belhaj. I am totally opposed to this. I think that's unwise and not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mrs Belhaj, I did not limit the number of interruptions, but I did say that interruptions go in two. I think this has changed clearly enough for now. If you make your contribution later, Mr Bosman will be able to ask you about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr. Chairman. I ask Mr Bosman a question and then I get another question. I'm gonna answer it fine later. But my question was completely clear: what does the VVD call...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u21	That is the answer you have received, Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u22	... a European mission in Africa with different countries? What do you call it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u23	I call that a "military mission," as we should just call all missions a "military mission." Eventually...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u24	A European mission!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u25	You can also call it "a European mission." You can also call it "a NATO mission." We can call it "a UN mission." These are all fine names, but let me be clear about the decision-making: for the VVD it is unnegotiable for us to deploy troops without intervention from the cabinet or parliament. If D66 thinks that is possible otherwise, I am very curious about that later, because that seems to me to be a special construction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u26	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u27	Of course, but then it's also about the filling of the armed forces, about that basic readiness. Then it's about influx but certainly also about conservation. As a reason for early departure before the end of the phase 2 contracts, 46% do not have sufficient career opportunities and 43% put forward the future uncertainty as the main reasons in an organisation with over 6,000 vacancies. How many people don't get a phase 3 contract now? Because with so many vacancies, that would be amazing. There may be a mismatch, but I would like to hear it from the Minister or the Secretary of State. In answering the questions, I read that almost everyone can get a phase 3 contract, but I also hear signals that people do not get that. Again, there may be a good reason for that, but then I'd like to hear it. What are the internal career opportunities for military personnel at the end of their phase 2 contract? What is the planning horizon for career planning? Is that one function ahead? Can a number of subsequent functions be planned? A good perspective for the future is also a reason for people to stay inside, because the workload is enormous: besides the more than 6,000 vacancies there were 4,000 men and women in training, and that on a stock of 46,000 soldiers. That is a huge task for all those men and women who are now working in the organization, are on the job and keep the toko running. And then they also have to work to bring more money into the organisation and to expand and expand organisations. That is certainly the case with the DMO, the Defence Material Organization. That is where people need to be full-bodied in order to manage all acquisitions. I am very pleased with the government's commitment to the purchase of military equipment with the rule "Dutch, unless." This is an important choice for the future of our armed forces, who are assured of knowledge and skills for maintenance and improvement in their own country. It is also good for the Dutch industry, which can supply high-quality equipment to the Dutch military and thus also has a platform for possible sales orders outside the Netherlands. But I am concerned about the capacity at DMO. The answer to the question whether DMO can cope with the pressure from labour-intensive market explorations, which require intensive contact with various providers, was: "pm." That stands for "pro remembrance," which means "to remember." I think this would still be filled out. Can the Minister or the Secretary of State give an answer to this? Because this is very important, not only for the organisation but certainly for industry as well. The additional post of the Ministry of Finance contains the remaining reservation from the government agreement for the Enlargement Impact Package, cyber and employership. The remaining amount on the additional item is structuralally 110 million from 2019. The reservation will be transferred to the Defence budget if there are concrete proposals for the use of the funds. Are there any concrete proposals now, I ask the Minister, because in answering the questions it did not become quite clear to me. The team of conflict prevention announced in the Defence Note should ensure that the meaningful contribution that Defence can make in preventing violent conflict is even better integrated into the integrated foreign policy and is in line with the efforts of international partners. That sounds nice, but I don't have a sound and image yet. When is there any clarity about the tasks and activities of this team, I ask the Minister. And what activities is the Defence Department currently undertaking which should fall under this heading? The Defence Note also stated the ambition to bring the Invictus Games to the Netherlands in 2020. I would like to express my appreciation for the fact that the Minister and the Secretary of State have managed to achieve this. That's a really great world-class sporting event. Can the minister give us a hint of the veil yet? How is the planning and where are the events going to take place? It would be nice if everyone with some involvement in Defense could be involved in some form, from veteran to reservist and from active to wanted warrior. As far as I am concerned, participation is a measure of how the organisation is doing. Are the rulers satisfied with the way in which they participate in the Defence Department and on what basis do they conclude that? Is participation involved at an early stage in reorganisations and changes of the organisation? Especially now that the organization is growing again and new places are being created, filling these places is of the utmost importance, also because people can see that as a new challenge or make a career move. The lack of opportunities was one of the reasons for early departure. So the sooner the participation is involved, the faster the reorganisation can go. But the unions also have a role to play in the reorganisations. I would ask the Secretary of State if they would also speed up the reorganisations that are so important to this new military force. Are these reorganisations independent of collective bargaining or are they part of it? I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. The two rulers know I'm working hard for the independent security supervisor, DOD. It was good that we could talk to him and his team for an introduction. I also welcome the Minister's undertaking that she will come forward with an explanation of how she will ensure that independence by the end of December. December 14th, in fact, she says now. Excellent! The independence of the supervisor is in line with the other supervisors in the Netherlands; that is a good thing. But the independence of the DOD accident investigation committee is a matter of attention. The idea of a framework law by Professor Van Vollenhoven as chairman of the Society and Security Foundation appeals greatly to me and not just to me. I am not making up anything new here; I repeat this regularly. Professor of Risk Management Theo Kocken wrote a large piece in Het Financieele Dagblad last Tuesday. I would like to quote the following from that, it is quite a large piece but it is important: "A great danger to every organization is that mistakes are being handled wrongly. Learning is crucial for an organisation that wants to adapt and make mistakes is the main incentive for learning. As long as the culture is there. In a blame culture little is learned. In the long run, that will be enough for the demise of such a non-learning company. The world is changing and the company isn't. The Dutch Pathé summit which was fired this year for the mistake of being deceived by Internet fraudsters is a good example of this. One of the best analyses in the field of learning versus non-learning organizations gives the British columnist Mathew Seyed in his book Black Box Thinking. He compares the culture of the civil aviation industry with the culture of the healthcare industry in a sublime way. The aviation industry has developed an anti-blame culture from the outset, where errors, unfortunately, sometimes with terrible consequences, are not penalised but are analyzed in extreme detail with specialists of all kinds of plumage. Even more relevant is that the mistakes, especially the "root causes," are then extended to the whole industry to be shared including competitors and converted into learning moments. For example, over the decades, the aircraft hierarchy has been replaced by procedures in which young people and older people can have their input and with which information can be quickly collected under stress. Mistakes made in the past are scheduled in the brain of young pilots via flight simulations. The result is an almost miraculous decline in disasters and near disasters, with, for example, no crash at the main airlines in 2017. About the other extreme is the culture of the medical world, which makes mistakes as bad luck to avoid court cases. Where "Herr Professor" still dominates the hierarchy and where mistakes are hardly shared, so dramatic repetition of them continues for decades." But also in construction safety is not a matter of course. After the outcome of the OVV's research report on the collapse of the garage at Eindhoven airport, the chairman of Bouwend Nederland, Maxime Verhagen, said: "Instead of pointing to each other, we need to think how we can restore confidence in our profession. In order to achieve this, learning capacity in the sector needs to be increased. Taking safety seriously is not enough. How can we ensure that we also feel responsible for the total and not just for our part? How do we achieve an open culture in which we do not deal with the question of guilt, but with joint lessons?" Foreign researchers are also working on this. According to the article of March 2012: Criminalizing Aviation: Placing Blame Before Safety written by Judith R. Nemsick, lawyer in the aviation industry, and Sarah Passeri, air accident expert. They include: "The ICAO (the International Civil Aviation Organisation), like many other aviation safety organisations, has advocated a just culture, a "just culture" in the aviation industry. One who does not punish individuals for negligence and criminal prosecution limited to cases of sabotage, intentional misconduct or gross recklessness." Mr. Chairman. So if you're investigating accidents, you have to ask two questions: what's the cause and who's guilty? However, you can never do these two questions in one investigation, because if you investigate the question of guilt, you have the right to remain silent. You are never going to find out what happened, so you cannot learn from the mistakes and run the risk of the accident happening again, with all the disastrous consequences of that. What I do not want to say, and I would like to repeat this, is that people can avoid their punishment. But that's another investigation. You can do that by the state's attorney's office; I'll come back to that. But these are two different investigations. So the accident investigation has to protect you from the investigation into guilt. Those two shouldn't be getting together. They both have to be done; it is not my intention to let guilty people walk. But this can be done through criminal proceedings, through the prosecution or by disciplinary action within the Defence Organisation. Punishment can be fine, but we also want to learn from mistakes and avoid mistakes. For this purpose, the accident investigation committee must be completely independent of the Public Prosecutor's Office, of commanders or of anyone else by means of a legal guarantee. No one can force a researcher to give his or her information, or release the underlying documents such as call notes or call reports. Nothing new here either; the OVV has been doing this for years. The safety of the people working in the armed forces deserves all the attention and the best guarantees to ensure that security is guaranteed. Mr President, I will conclude. We ask a lot of our men and women in the armed forces. They are committed to peace and security wherever in the world. I would also like to thank them on behalf of the VVD for their commitment. Not only the military, but certainly also their home front, which plays an important role and is a support in the life of the military. Through this support, the military can also be or do its work for freedom in the world. Unfortunately, the world is not yet a safe place everywhere, and we will sometimes have to fight for it to make it safer and to protect freedom. Because freedom really isn't self-evident. In English, the spell is perhaps even more beautiful: "freedom isn't free" - with my apologies for English. In order to protect freedom, we must invest in the armed forces: in equipment, but certainly also in personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u28	Thank you. Before you leave, Mrs Karabulut has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u29	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Last night it became clear that the Defence Sector Consultation with the unions and the Secretary of State on a new collective agreement and a new pension scheme for Defence personnel failed. That stopped. Speaking about the staff and the value of the staff for Defence, does the VVD agree with the SP that the Secretary of State and the Minister should not only say that the staff comes first, but that they should also show this by creating the opportunities for a good collective agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u30	This is kind of interesting. In negotiations you have two parties: you have an employer and you have employees; the employer and the unions. I think we're having these meetings. I do not think it would be wise for me, as a Chamber, to respond directly to what apparently happened last night. I'm very careful with that. I very much hope that the Secretary of State and the Minister will have the space, and at least we will give them it in order to achieve a good result in good consultation with the unions. Only, that is a consultation; that comes from two sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u31	Then I'm gonna ask another question. In October last year agreements were made on the pension scheme with the employer and the unions. And that's where the problem lies. According to the unions, the Secretary of State does not want to comply with these agreements and leaves this to the ABP, which will cut down a lot of soldiers and staff next year. Does the VVD consider that this should be done, or does the VVD consider that a decent pension scheme should be introduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u32	This too is part of the overall package. For that, you have to make good agreements, but in conjunction. I think you need to look at everything in conjunction. In my opinion, I can only hear the Secretary of State say that she also wants a good collective agreement and a good pension scheme. But it's connected. I am very careful to judge agreements that I do not know all of, of which I do not know what the negotiating positions were, of which I do not know what all the statements were. So I am a little more reluctant than the SP, but I think it is important that both the Secretary of State and the unions should sit down and speak out exactly what they want, for the future of the staff. 'Cause that's what it's about. It is ultimately about the well-being of the staff, for which you have to make agreements with each other. Then you can point at each other and say that in the past, or even further back, we made agreements, but how do you go to the future? How are we going to go into the future to ensure that staff have a good collective agreement and also a good pension scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u33	Thank you. I call Mrs Diks van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We haven't had a lack of debates on defence in the last few weeks. The fact that we talk about it so much is, of course, right, because there is also a lot going on. There's been a lot of demand from the Defense Department over the last few years. The organization had to do more and more, with less money and fewer people. And that as we assumed ever greater responsibilities internationally and increased employability. That's where it went wrong. There were practical opportunities and commitments too far apart. They weren't choices that GroenLinks would have made. Because, yes, we did want to cut back on defence, but we also wanted to do less. We wanted to make choices. No longer a completely Swiss pocket knife with bottle opener, file, screwdriver and so on, but specialization. However, other choices have been made and they have had disastrous consequences. Mr. Chairman. But that's looking back. It all worked out the way it did. As far as I'm concerned, water under the bridge. Apart from how we now think about the choices we have made in the past, we all have to look forward today. I am pleased to note that in all the debates we have had over the past period, it is always apparent that the restoration of defence is no longer a party political matter. It is therefore very good that yesterday my motion for a resolution on a review of the rehabilitation projects was unanimously adopted by the Chamber. After all, it concerns all of us. Everyone wants to help fill those thousands of vacancies and get a better-stocked organisation as soon as possible. Can the Secretary of State tell us what these vacancies mean for the actual filling? How does she judge this? We all want a well-functioning force. And more importantly, we all want a Defense Department that has the security and well-being of the Defense personnel number one. After all, the staff is the foundation of the armed forces, not the hardware and the iron. Last week, Chamberwide also sounded a loud and clear appeal to the rulers to ensure that a new and, above all, good working conditions agreement is reached quickly. From left to right it sounded: rule this. In my view, you had sufficient political mandate to carry out the negotiations. But what did we hear this morning? That the consultation with the unions has collapsed. Extremely disappointing. We're not gonna let defense personnel have no collective agreement for years, are we? I find that unacceptable to the largest or second largest state service. So, rulers, what's next? GroenLinks would like to hear today a commitment from the executives that soldiers and civilian staff will be able to sit at Christmas dinner with their family and loved ones with a feeling of relief and financial appreciation, provided they are not on the air of course, knowing that they will have a good and new collective agreement in the coming year, with matching supplements and allowances. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then cyber defense. Last week, Minister sent her Cyber Defense Strategy to the Chamber. Oh, no, it was the Defense Cyber Strategy. In the media, the strategy was presented by the Defense Department as a plan to invest heavily in cyber defense. GroenLinks has been demanding an extra effort on cyber defense for some time now, so of course I focused my ears when I heard this. With a happy expectation I read the cyber strategy, to remain disappointed afterwards. There are good, but above all vague ideas in this strategy. Moreover, I am thinking in particular of the budget in the case of a substantial investment. In the strategy, I find an extra 2.5 million for research. Nothing wrong with that, of course, but it is a very creative framing to sell that as a big investment. 2.5 million for me, on a budget of 10 billion, is a bit of the nickel you'll find at the bottom of your bag. Of course, not everything can be solved with money, but a number of things can be solved. One of them, in our view, is to strengthen cyber defense. At the moment, the DOD can only perform one cyber operation at a time. That's just too little with the current cyber threats. Whoever's mouth is full of the importance of a strong cyber defense, and that's what GroenLinks has to deliver, too. I have therefore tabled an amendment to shift 25 million from the investment budget to the Defence Cyber Command and the STPD. In our view, this could finance a serious expansion of this cyber capacity. I hope that the Minister will be able to respond positively to this amendment, partly on the basis of her own strategy. Mr. Chairman. In 2020, the cabinet will be presenting a review of the Defence Note that sent it to the Chamber this year. After all, the current Defence Memorandum of the rulers does not make any fundamental choices about the form and content of the armed forces. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, these choices still have to be made. After all, the effectiveness of our armed forces is greatly increased when we focus on what we are good at, and also behaved to choose not to do some things. And as far as GroenLinks is concerned, we are all doing this in deeper European cooperation, which will finally give us more value for money through smart cooperation and innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u35	I agree with Mrs Diks that it is important to look at the armed forces of the future, because you have to put yourself up for the future adaptively. In this context, how does it look at the questions that NATO is asking us about, for example, more heavy or medium mechanized brigades or about long-distance rocket artillery? How does she look at those questions raised by NATO?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u36	All kinds of questions are, of course, asked from NATO. Even from Europe, all kinds of questions are asked to the Netherlands. In my opinion, my point has always been, and it has been for a long time: you must consult each other on this. You need to see what the Netherlands can do. And I think we should, and of course we have not done so in recent years, keep the shed near the cottage. I mean, we're a small country, we don't have many people and we don't have military service, so we really need to get rid of the overstretch on Defense. The examples you mention, I think, come from your past with the Defense Department. I can imagine that you attach importance to this, and perhaps we can all recognise that, but the great quest is what we are going to do for a limited budget, even if you bring additional billions to it, and above all: what are we not going to do? These choices need to be made jointly with NATO and the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u37	Let me be very clear. For example, when I mention rocket artillery and heavier mechanized brigades, it is about what NATO is asking: I did not think of that myself. So we're gonna have to get rid of that misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u38	I assumed for a moment that you were interested in it in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u39	I am interested in all armies, I say to Mrs Diks, but this is what NATO is asking us to do. So I'm glad to hear Mrs Diks say, "Look at NATO too." But there are also a number of other developments. We are talking about artificial intelligence, autonomous action or hybrid warfare. To what extent should they also be placed in the armed forces of the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u40	Honestly, I think that's exactly the big thing of the future. We can all make huge investments here, and even more so in the examples you mention, in the army. Or suppose the cabinet comes up with a proposal to purchase even more JSFs, but then it turns out that with a drone you can do much greater damage, harm or harm in a smarter way that has such a destabilization effect that you don't actually need JSF anymore, so to speak. I'm just fantasizing here behind the chair. And I see you laughing, and I can imagine half of it, but at the same time I'm worried about that. For we must have an answer to the changes that others are making in the warfare they want to organize against us. And we don't have that answer today, which, of course, is the basis, I assume, for the Defense Cyber Strategy. There are things around us that we don't know yet, and there will be things that we don't know about in the future. We have to find an answer to that. So we have to be adaptive, not only in terms of staff, but also in terms of the spiritual nature of what kind of defence you want to set up. Well, that was the point about this deeper European cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u41	We're actually counting the interruptions in half, Mrs. Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u42	It is no longer an interruption, but I would like to respond to Mrs Diks: we were not laughing at her examples, but at the way she said "fantasize." Let me get this straight. The examples are real.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u43	Yeah, I thought so, too, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u44	That's right. We take each other very seriously. The good texts of GroenLinks always make me happy. But we also have the National Security Capacity Review from NATO. I believe that there is a responsibility that we share, and we ask: what do we all deliver to NATO? Does Mrs Diks then distance herself from that and say: we are not going to do that? How does she direct that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u45	It's hard, isn't it? I was in Halifax last weekend at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. There are a lot of things going on here, but it is mainly about the 2%: when is that going to happen? Let me be very clear about this. You can't expect others to solve things for you that you don't want and don't have time and money for. It can't be. If you want to organize a joint defense, you have to want to stand for it together. This means that the Netherlands must make a contribution. The question is just: what contribution should we make? I went into that in my play and I will come back to it later. We have to do what we do best. We have relatively few people, we even have far too few people for our Defense Department, but we are very good at cyber. In it, we are just at the top of the world. That is what we need to invest extra in. That is why I have tabled an amendment, because I very much support the cyberstrategy of the rulers, but I think it is still too thin. I think we can do better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u46	I think it's much wider. Our military is really in the Champions League of what they can do, whether it's the kites, the army, the navy or cyber. But we are in a NATO context, in which we agree on what we all contribute. That ability review is in there. Does Mrs Diks say that we are not doing this capacity review, because GroenLinks has a different plan for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u47	We know, of course, that NATO is asking for 2% of us. You know that we are not in favour of this 2%, but that is not the point. The point is, if you've promised to deliver, you should be able to deliver. At the moment we are doing this, to some extent, but that is at the expense of the organisation that is left behind in the Netherlands. I have seen it myself on various broadcasts we have done. Then we put our good face on abroad, if I may put it that way, and then we send a lot of people, stuff and support there, but if you then come to work visit in the Netherlands, you were there at the warehouse yourself you see that the warehouses are empty and that departments and parts are still there. This is all because we are taking too much stock to show our good face internationally. That is a good thing in itself, but at the same time I call it overstretch. Then you ask so much of the Defense Department that in fact there can't be a good delivery anymore and then you go one step back together. That's exactly what I don't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u48	I fully share the analysis of overstretch, but I would like to go back to the NATO objectives and the 2% standard. An additional 4.5 billion will be invested in this period. If you'd like to meet the 2% standard, you'd have to add money. If it's Trump's fault, it's gonna be 4%, because of course his arms industry has to keep running. We saw it again yesterday with Saudi Arabia: the deals must continue, even if someone is killed; none of that matters. Is GroenLinks behind that 2%, what does it mean that we have to add 7 or 8 billion more? If so, at the expense of what?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u49	No, I think we have always been very clear that we do not support this 2% objective, but at the same time I think we should think carefully about sharing the burden, the burden sharing, as we always call it in good Dutch. We have to be honest about that. We can deliver very well in areas we are good at. We have just talked about cyber, artificial intelligence, intelligence gathering. In such cases we are very good and we can also pay well. GroenLinks therefore does not pursue this 2% objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u50	Sure. That first part I have, and the second part I am pleased with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u51	But that's not news, is it? 'Cause we've said that a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u52	Well... I ask because it did not become clear to me from your story, but again, I am pleased. The second is the NATO strategy. GroenLinks also distanced itself from the 2% standard, but what about the NATO strategy? NATO, as you know, has been operating globally for years and is going to do so more and more. It is no longer an organisation that serves purely to defend us, but it spreads its tentacles and also engages in warfare, whether illegal or not. What do you think of the results of the last 17 years? Is that a strategy that needs to be reconsidered or do you say: no, NATO as a global operation with increasing pressure on ever more military efforts, that is going well?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u53	I do not know how long this first deadline may last, because I really think this is an issue that we should have the broad debate on. There are plenty of opportunities to do that with each other, and that conversation is exactly what I think we should do with each other. It is not for nothing that I have said from the beginning that I am very interested in this European cooperation. We see, of course, the United States, and we also see that we will still need the United States against other enemies to get our defenses in order. It's not enough to handle bigger enemies for the time being. We can find that annoying, we can regret that, it is. We must cooperate with the United States. But that is without prejudice to the fact that you can still be critical of that. And of the way Trump thinks he can support his friends or his family in the arms industry with additional billions, you can imagine that GroenLinks can't count on any applause in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u54	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u55	The question is, of course, where was I? I think I've already found it. It was just about European cooperation and that we can get more value for money through that cooperation in our experience. The question then is: do the rulers have any ideas about how they intend to recalibrate this? Actually, we were just talking about it. Maybe that even gave ideas to the rulers. How do we ensure that important information, for example from the workplace, flows up, so that there will also be a broad internal support for the new note? How, for example, are scientists, research institutes, citizens involved? And, not least, how is the Chamber involved? Not just for information, but for real. And, not least, are major decisions on investment in new capabilities for Defence actually postponed until then in 2020? The removal of the financial fence around the acquisition of the F-35 does not reassure us at all. The Secretary of State has still not been able to give a good reason why this appointment with the Chamber should be broken. The only reason a well-thinking person could come up with, and in the interest of the discussion I consider myself but for a moment as a thoughtful person, is that the cabinet wants to buy more appliances. It seems very unwise for GroenLinks to put billions in new material without having made the fundamental choices about specialisation. I hope, therefore, that the rulers will agree that this cannot be done until 2020 at least. Mr. Chairman. Disturb has arisen in Amsterdam because, without any kind of consultation, Defence has decided to continue to use the Marine Site of Defence in the heart of the city, despite previous agreements. I do not think it would be too much to ask for municipalities to be involved at an early stage in such drastic changes to real estate plans and to consult with them properly and constructively. It reminds me a lot of the way in which the Defense Department handled the proposed move from the Navy barracks to Vlissingen. There too, the municipality of Utrechtse Heuvelrug was not listened to and Defence acted independently. I understand that the political leadership of the Defence Department is pursuing its own interests, but these are not always the right interests as far as GroenLinks is concerned. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she would like to involve local authorities earlier for future real estate projects in particular changes to previous agreements. Mr. Chairman. Defense defends the entire kingdom. GroenLinks stands for a robust defense of the Caribbean islands of the kingdom. That defence would become stronger if we, with our allies who also have a defensive role in the Caribbean, signed a treaty on mutual defence. In examining the Defence Note, the Chamber adopted my motion requesting the Minister to examine an option of a treaty or otherwise co-operation. I would like to hear what steps the Minister has taken in the meantime and whether she can tell us more. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. In the two legislative submissions in recent weeks, I have already discussed extensively what needs to be changed with regard to GroenLinks in order to improve the security and well-being of defence personnel. What needs to be done to provide our people with adequate supplies. What needs to be done to better appreciate Defense personnel both in word and in the wallet. In recent years, our military have worked hard to keep the Dutch defense running, but have not received the security, care and appreciation they deserve. GroenLinks has supported the spending of extra money. That is really not a matter of course for a party with pacifist routes. The directors have taken office with good will to pass the broom through the organization. However, it is taking some time now. GroenLinks also knows that no one has been kept to the impossible, but we do expect action and quick and adequate solutions. GroenLinks wants complete safety within the organisation, restoration of crooked real estate, decent allowances for soldiers who work nights and weekends, train or are on broadcast and quickly a good collective agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u56	Mrs Belhaj has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u57	I have a question on the last point and also on the previous comments made by Mrs Diks. She thinks that if the Netherlands has committed itself to 2%, you should also act on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u58	Well, I really said something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u59	That is why I will test this again with you. You will then explain that you do want the Netherlands to do something, but that is of course not new.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u60	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u61	I come to my question, Mr President. Mrs Diks, the point you made at the end was that GroenLinks supported the additional investments in Defence. That means an extra 1.5 billion a year. In view of the previous comments you made, can we count on the next GroenLinks election programme to include 1.5 billion? Or are you just saying that you're behind it and that you think it's important, but you don't want to deliver? What exactly is that about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u62	D66 is going through it a little bit now with seven-mile boots. I think we have already taken a big step. There was no cut in our election program. That was the first step. We said, "Defense must remain at zero." After all the debates we have had here in the Chamber and after all the state of affairs and all the fuss in the defence sector, we have found that the money that was on the budget for the previous period is simply insufficient and that more needs to be done. GroenLinks has also said: it cannot go on like this. I think it is a little much to ask if you are going to ask me to reserve billions for the next period. I think you're going a little crazy right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u63	I'm not freaking out at all. I simply confront GroenLinks with his own statements. If you consider that you can support these additional investments, then the following investments should also be included in the GroenLinks programme. Otherwise, you're gonna keep it at zero. Here you say in the budget that GroenLinks is for this extra investment, but when it comes to it, it is not in your election programme. So it's listening pretty tight. I'm not trying to ridicule you. I am trying to be absolutely clear about what investments GroenLinks will include in the next election programme, if you say that GroenLinks has changed and has the willingness to support those soldiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u64	The fact that we support the military has, in my view, become quite clear. But I am actually a little concerned by the remarks made by Mrs Belhaj. You keep talking about election programs. Should I take into account that this cabinet will fall in the short term? Are you therefore concerned whether GroenLinks could have set up the next election programme in time? In view of the situation and the state of the defence, I have expressly indicated that we have taken the step to put extra money into the defence sector. That's what GroenLinks does. We are a real party and we look at the care and needs that exist. Then we want to add money to that. But once again, I think you are asking too much if you tell me to speak out on the next election programme. So we can ask each other anything about what might happen in the future. Actually, I think it's a crazy question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u65	I'm afraid my question is going to go a little crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u66	Well, I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u67	That question is also a bit forward-looking. At GroenLinks I taste a warm heart for the Defense Department, for the people and also for what is to be done there. I'm very happy about that. But I do not hear about the 2% that we, as SGP, attach great importance to. At least it's not that 2%, but where is it about? I don't need it now in the next election program. It may take a very long time for me, because I will grant this cabinet for years to come. But is it 1.5% or 1.7%? Or do you say: where we stand now is enough? I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u68	It's hard, that 2%. Firstly, the question is: 2% of what? Because it is only afterwards that you can determine what the national income was. Then you took 2% of that. So you always know afterwards if you've met something. If I look at the state of defense now, I'm afraid, given the current situation, maybe more mistakes would be made if you brought more money there. You have to put the organization in order first and then maybe invest more and differently in it. The money that is now being brought to it is needed to reduce delays and improve management. That is all very practical and necessary. The next question is how you meet the international obligations. That is the question that hangs on that 2%. I'd like to have a much better idea of what you want to do with that 2%. Then I come a little close to Mrs Karabulut who says that NATO has made all kinds of choices and has chosen to wage certain wars and a certain battle. In a number of cases this has been a battle that GroenLinks would not have chosen as such. We have not agreed to a number of missions. We have also voted against a number of issues. Maintaining the international legal order must be seen in a much broader perspective than just that very narrow story of 2%.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u69	When I hear this answer, I think I can see that, if there is a good content underneath it, 2% is not unspeakable. Is that right or is that wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u70	That is not true, because at least I would like to know much better why you would want that 2%. If you want that 2% to go to the US for conquest wars, I assume that Mr Stoffer can imagine that we do not think we should do so. When you look at the DOD, we're at a whole different point in the circle. We believe that much more needs to be done to prevent conflict and that much more needs to be done to develop countries, so that destabilization in those countries is not at issue and preferably there are no or few regional wars, because then everyone has to help internationally and spend billions on them. So we are at a very different point. I do not mean pathetic, but we believe that you can work much better at a better world and improve well-being and prosperity for everyone than intervene in conflicts in places where things have gone wrong. Our starting point in the discussion on Defense is different.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u71	It's actually 2.5%. So if we define it differently, GroenLinks can make it 2%.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u72	Yeah, but it's not from the defense budget. We are putting a great deal of money into the matters I have just mentioned from the Netherlands through the external trade and development budget. Conflict prevention is, I think, the key if you want to organize a good defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u73	Mrs Diks, thank you very much. I call Mrs Bruins-Slot of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u74	Mr. Chairman. We are on the eve of 75 years of liberation from the southern part of the Netherlands. Slowly all our liberators died. They can no longer tell us the stories about the fight, the sacrifice and the victory. They were the tangible proof that peace and security are not self-evident, that peace and security are not peaceful and that peace and security sometimes come at a high price. Defence protects what is dear to us, for our security in the Netherlands, against terrorism, but also against international threats. The world around us is changing fast. A taste this year was that Russia was spying in our own backyard, in our own streets. Meanwhile, China's political and economic influence continues to extend. In the military field, they'll be one of the biggest in 20 years. The AIVD warns that more than 500 supporters of the terrorist group IS are active in the Netherlands. At the same time, over the last few decades, we have neglected our swordpower, Defense. We can't afford that anymore. Defense is the insurance policy for peace and security in case things don't go well. Meanwhile, that insurance policy has been stripped to the bone. For years, the military and citizens of Defense have been keeping their lives down with fewer people and with less resources. Then it is about securing Schiphol, of Eindhoven, the surveillance of our borders, the fight against terror, supporting the national police, the mission in Afghanistan, the presence in Lithuania and the monitoring of airspace. The CDA is proud of our men and women from the armed forces. They keep society safe and they are prepared to make the highest sacrifice. This cabinet invests 5 billion dollars in defense, and that's good, but that doesn't make everything any better at once. What's broken down in 30 years, you don't build up again in four years. I consciously begin my contribution by maintaining staff, because they are the golden capital of the organization. Those soldiers and civilians are the builders of the new armed forces. They are eagerly looking forward to change, but in the workplace they still do not notice much of it. The acidity is high in the organization and you often hear: nothing ever comes back from the other side, when is what I do appreciated? My question to both directors is: what are they going to do for defence personnel in the short term in order to preserve them? As a commander, you have a lot to do, but you don't like much when you're in the D.O.D. Responsibilities, powers and finances are preferably invested in different people and organisational components. In order not to spend too ill-thought-out money, there has been a structure and a method of many hurdles and thresholds. The organization even suffers from phantom rules. Last year I asked the Minister to give commanders more financial and human powers. This is not just about brigade commanders, but also about battalions commanders and commanders at lower levels. The first steps have been taken. What follow-up steps are the directors going to take to make sure that commanders really like something again? That they have full responsibility? That they have more human and financial powers, so that they can actually deliver tailor-made work for the staff? Mr. Chairman. As Mrs Diks said, the current Defence Note is one of recovery. A recovery note for the 2013 armed forces. It does not provide sufficient answers to changing international conditions. It is therefore necessary to create a new vision of defence, based on the geopolitical and national threat, and not on the capabilities available. The developments of artificial intelligence, robotisation and autonomous action are also going very quickly. At the same time, NATO's NATO Capability Review calls for more heavy resources, such as medium mechanized brigades and rocket artillery over longer distances. How does the Minister view this? Does she still want to come up with a new vision for this cabinet period? This also means a rapid build-up of capacities. When I was standing here last year, I said I was worried that a lot of money would remain on the shelf. That seems to be the case now. It is disappointing that the Netherlands accounts for 1.16% of GDP for defence. Meanwhile, the previous cabinet has signed the Wales Pledge to grow to 2%. That is not growth because of the percentage, but growth because international conditions change. The Secretary-General of NATO has been putting increasing pressure on this 2% recently. It's done from all sides. My question to the Minister is as follows. At the end of December, there must be a plan from the cabinet. What exactly is the Minister going to tell NATO?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u75	On this point, I am very curious to see what the CDA group would like the Minister to inform NATO. As Mrs Bruins Slot knows, billions more are needed, 7 to 8 billion, to grow to 2%. Is that what the CDA group wants? If so, where should that come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u76	Of course, that's just the one million dollar question Mrs Karabulut is putting here. Let us be clear: the growth towards that 2% we really see as CDA, but we are also realistic. We will certainly not achieve that during this cabinet period. But I am very curious what steps we can take.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u77	Let me get this straight: does the CDA's fraction remain with the 4.5 or 5 billion in the coalition agreement? Or does Mrs Bruins Slot say that the Minister must indicate in that plan at the end of December that additional money will be added to this cabinet period before January? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u78	If the possibilities are there, you won't hear me as a CDA man say we'll stop that. But the Minister must see what is possible. Of course, we had in the election programme that we wanted 2 billion a year. In the end, this government has reached 1.5 billion a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u79	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u80	Mr. Chairman. Good thing there is now a Defence Cyber Strategy, because every day the Netherlands faces cyber attacks by state and non-state actors. In the note only an important, crucial link is missing: space. Space is the new battle scene. Especially China and Russia invest in offensive cyber weapons, which target satellites specifically. Satellites allow you to shut down ATMs and calls, regulate traffic lights or disrupt navigation in cars. Last time this was from Russia, we don't know if Russia was going to do it with the Finnish GPS. A cyber attack is probably the biggest threat for space-based systems right now. That could disrupt Dutch society. The CDA also wants the minister to use cyber-soldiers to fight off and prevent cyber attacks in space, attacks that threaten to shut down Dutch society. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The Defence Industry Strategy is rightly based on the principle of "own defence industry first." As a seafaring nation, the Netherlands has a tradition and reputation to uphold in naval construction. A research report shows that the Netherlands is building high-quality, innovative and profitable naval ships, but that the Netherlands is about to lose this knowledge. Collaboration in the golden triangle of business, Defense and knowledge institutes is crucial for more jobs and the preservation of knowledge. It is good that the Secretary of State will at least build the Navy frigates and also the supply ship in the Netherlands. According to this research report, however, the most vulnerable knowledge is among the submarines. The CDA would like to see a Dutch flag planted on those submarines. The CDA would like to see the development of submarines within the golden triangle of the Netherlands take place. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Practice, train and wage war without ammunition is impossible. However, in recent years, the Netherlands has taken a huge interest in its ammunition supplies. NATO has also turned a blind eye to us for this. The purchase and production of ammunition takes a lot of time. In order to regain the current basic ambition, the Secretary of State is even working until 2033. And the Netherlands is in line when buying ammunition at the back. If we were to enter a large-scale conflict, we would soon be calling "pang, pang" against the enemy. The CDA wants us to keep more of our own pants on ammunition in Europe. Then it is a question of purchasing and, if necessary, the production of ammunition. What possibilities does the Secretary of State see for a permanent structured cooperation to see how the Netherlands can jointly buy and produce ammunition with other countries? Last year, the Secretary of State promised that the military in their army rooms would get good internet. That's slow. If I see the developments in the letter we received yesterday, thank you for that! Then we gradually go from camping-wifi to hotel-wifi. But, yeah, that's still not how you bring in a soldier. It is simply no longer of this time to ship the current generation of soldiers through the week with camping-wifi or hotel-wifi. Our soldiers must also be able to gam in their army chambers. Then it is disappointing that on some barracks the internet does not go beyond surfing, mailing, taking courses and streaming videos in reasonable quality. You really can't come home with that as a 20-year-old. Will the Secretary of State make sure that soldiers do not get camping Wi-Fi, but home Wi-Fi?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u81	I think the Secretary of State should take care of that. That's a first need for life now, sort of. But my question is about Mrs Bruins Slot's previous point, about that munitions factory. I am now hearing an argument that this should be done at European level, all those projects that have been launched. But it is not quite clear to me whether Mrs Bruins Slot wants the rulers to make their living for a Dutch ammunition factory. Would you like a national ammunition plant? Or do you want them simply to try to regulate this in a European context? The newspaper got a different impression. Is the CDA Group going for the nationalization of companies or something?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u82	With the nationalization of companies, I would finally make Mrs Karabulut really happy. Of course, I always want to do that once, but not now. Thank you for this enlightening question. Two weeks ago, Mrs Karabulut also attended the debate in which the Secretary of State explained very clearly that, when it comes to the procurement of ammunition, we are dealing with long delivery times. Because we're small, we're in line at the back, while there's still a lot of monopolists. This just takes a very long time before we rebuild the first small base for ammunition. That's got to be smarter. That is why I have the following question. If we were to work together with a number of countries on purchasing and then make sure that we are larger as a party, would we perhaps be more in front of that line and would we not get ammunition anymore and sooner? The second is this. I also asked who the monopolists are and where they are: within Europe or beyond? I have not actually received a clear answer to that. So in those cases where it really turns out that you are very vulnerable in the area of ammunition, I think you should talk to each other in Europe about the joint production of ammunition if we really get into trouble with a number of monopolists. That would be step two. Step one is purchasing and then looking in the longer term. If we have real bottlenecks, we have to provide for them ourselves and see what we can do in Europe. Do I see the ammunition factory coming back in 2002, of which the Secretary of State is always sighing as to why it has disappeared? No, actually, I don't. I believe that a number of other countries are already producing ammunition, in which they already have much more knowledge and experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u83	This will undoubtedly also have to do with the love of the Secretary of State for Zaanstad, which I fully understand, but that aside. If I may translate Mrs Bruins Slot freely, she says that there is a logistical problem and we need to investigate how this can be solved, whether through European cooperation or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u84	A logistics problem would actually make it smaller. Because enough ammunition is really crucial to train and train our military, but especially if we end up in a mission or a large-scale fight, we just need enough. We're just below the level of what we should have. We've been incredibly depressed. The Secretary of State also writes in her letter that she had to take an extra interest because we were dealing with cuts. So a logistics problem would make it too small, it is really an essential prerequisite that we as the Netherlands get enough ammunition in the short term, if only to be able to train and train our men and women sufficiently. However, do what we do now, but see if we can succeed together in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u85	You went over cyber a little fast. You just had a few paragraphs about what you missed in the strategy, namely space. Do you have the idea that an additional 2.5 million, as the Minister suggests in her cyber strategy, will be sufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u86	First of all, I am very pleased that Mrs Diks is incredibly emphasising the importance of cyber and making her hard work for it. I think that's good. But of course there is more investment in cyber than just the 2.5 million. Of course, you are asking indirectly whether the CDA will support your amendment on this point. That's pretty much what I hear in it. If you're gonna make $25 million for something, it's gonna have to be at the expense of something else. Then what's it going to cost? But the commitment that cyber deserves attention and that it probably needs to be more, I do recognize. Anyway, if you get money from anywhere, it's at the expense of something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u87	Then, for the time being, it will be at the expense of something in the future, while today's cyber threat is. So I really think it is important that we should work together on this, and I know that you attach great importance to this and that other parties should be given time and money to do so. So I'm, like you, very curious about the answer. But I hope that, if that answer is interesting and positive for you, the CDA will support my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u88	That was a plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u89	My party, too, of course, sees the importance of cyber and space, and also sees that more and more money is going there and that more and more attention is being paid to it. I actually intend to table a motion in the second term, asking for a separate domain of cyber and space to be included in the next budget. Then we can see more clearly whether the objectives set are being met and what is actually happening with the financial picture and the financial resources. I'd like to know if I can find the CDA on my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u90	At least that gives us the great opportunity to have two motions on cyber and space today. Mrs Popken also knows me; I'm just going to take a good look at her motion. In any case, I like the fact that Mrs Popken is also paying attention to this, so let us leave it at that. Then I'm just really curious what the motion will mean later. Mr. Chairman. It's hard to recruit enough soldiers. Social service is a great way to get in touch with the Defense Department. Young people are given the opportunity to contribute to society, discover their talents and take a look in the kitchen. What possibilities does the Minister see to participate? Mr. Chairman. Finally, 75 years of freedom. The CDA loves that in 2020 the Netherlands can organize the Invictus Games and that Prince Harry has indicated that the Invictus Games are coming here. And I think it is extremely important that the athletes and their family members who already have experience with the Invictus Games get an important voice in the organisation of the Invictus Games in the Netherlands. They have had experience with how they experience it, with how we as the Netherlands can best organise this beautiful event. In any case, I understand from the VWS Ministry, Minister Bruno Bruins, that he also very much supports these objectives from the Sports legislative consultation. I would therefore recommend that the Minister actively look up this minister to see if those good experiences and knowledge we have from sport can be used there as well. Mr. Chairman. 75 years of freedom. Since those 75 years there have been more than 100,000 Dutch soldiers who have worked for peace and security worldwide. They do so in the most diverse areas, in dangerous places in the world. The CDA is proud of the Dutch veterans. How does the Minister intend to give these veterans an important role in the celebration of 75 years of freedom? These veterans can make our current generation of young people aware of the price of freedom and the importance of a strong army, because Defence protects what is dear to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u91	Thank you, Mrs Bruins Slot. Mrs Karabulut of the SP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u92	Mr. Chairman. When politically decides to go on a mission in Mali, Afghanistan or Iraq, or practice in Lithuania, it is the men and women of Defence who are being deployed. The foreign policy decision, Defense is broadcasting. That's a big responsibility. First of all, when you send men and women abroad on a mission, this must not only contribute to peace and security, but above all must also be well-equipped. Mr. Chairman. For 17 years there has been a war against terrorism. That war has no end, has become permanent, with even more terrorists and deteriorating security in the Middle East, Europe and the Netherlands as a result. In addition, the new Cold War and its rhetoric have now come. Is more, more, more war really this minister's answer? Or is it replying to NATO's and the Americans' coercion? What peace initiatives and strategies is the Dutch government developing? What are the results of 17 years of war against terrorism? Why doesn't the government stop supporting the permanent war in the Netherlands? I'd like a response. Defence personnel, chairman, have had to pay a heavy bill for the towering political ambitions. Defence personnel had to do a lot and also do more with less resources. There is still no good collective agreement, no decent pension scheme. We've been working with unsafe ammo. Defence personnel work and sometimes live in decrepit buildings and lack high-demand equipment. Defense workers have been exposed to toxic substances for years, knowingly and knowingly. Many lives have taken a dramatic turn. However, the Secretary of State has so far refused a decent additional regulation to do justice to all victims. And the toxic, carcinogenic chromium-6 is still being used. Although the directors state that the staff comes first in their policies, we still do not see that in practice. Staff first? Absolutely, but much more needs to be done and there is also a realistic defence policy. Is the Minister, do the rulers agree with us? Mr. Chairman. We have already heard that the consultation with the unions on a good collective agreement, which has been going on for years, has collapsed again. Why isn't this working? Are the directors, is the Secretary of State prepared to reserve the necessary resources and to give them real priority? Why are billions earmarked for large weapons systems and are much less reserved for staff? One of the major problems of the Dutch armed forces is employability. The Commander of the Armed Forces, as well as the General Court, have said this in various ways. This problem could be reduced if, for example, we end the Dutch contribution in Lithuania. More than 200 military personnel have been deployed on exercise. That would initially be for a year, it would be temporary. I see now that it has become semipermanent. Why? Does the Secretary of State agree with us that stopping this exercise could give the necessary air to the organisation, air that can be used to put employability and readiness in order? Does she agree with us that this can also contribute to the necessary relaxation in relations with Russia? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. On October 4, there was a spectacular press conference between STUD and the minister on Russian spies who tried to hack the OPCW. It was effective, an effective exposure. But promptly the minister, encouraged by others, decided that we are at war with the Russians. The Russians declare war is not a joke, you shouldn't want that. I think the Minister has recognized this by now. I'd like a response. The disruption of Russian action in The Hague was a defensive action. But also offensive actions will follow, as the Minister told us a while ago in Nieuwsuur. It is a mystery to me why the Minister is so intrigued and really wants to involve that cold war rhetoric every time and declare war. I would like to know whether the Minister intends to take offensive cyber actions against Russia or against other countries. Last week's Defense Cyber Strategy reports that cyber operations can be deployed as part of military operations. Is the enhanced NATO position in Lithuania, for example, a military operation? Elsewhere in that note, on which we will be discussing it in detail, the Minister reports that work in the case of military operations is covered by the standard Article 100 operations. Does the Minister exclude offensive operations outside the Article 100 procedure, which informs the Chamber and is consulted on broadcasts, or is it creating new space here? I'd like some clarity. Mr. Chairman. I come to NATO and the 2% standard. The government has promised to pursue NATO's 2% standard. If it's Trump, the president of the United States, we have to go to 4%. Does the Minister recognise that it will not deposit 7 billion or 8 billion, let alone double or double, extra for the defence industry? Does she want to be open about that? What plan does she send to the Chamber in December to grow to that 2%? There's not enough staff. There's not enough room. There's been an overload on the defense apparatus. And there's under-utilization. I'd say staff first. Is it true? How much space is there? How much money is there that would be invested, but that cannot be spent? Are the directors willing to reserve some of them for a good collective agreement, a good pension scheme and the chromium-6 victim fund? NATO is in crisis. The US President is demanding money for the arms industry, or rather for his own arms industry. The French President Macron then considers him a latent enemy again. Together with the German Chancellor, he called for a European army with a European Security Council. Meanwhile, it is raining on European Defence Cooperation projects, which are increasingly forcing countries to subsidise the arms industry for innovation, for example. I don't know who owns the property rights, but these are all developments that are going on. In fact, we have Mogherini, who, from the European Commission, wants to set up a war fund called the euphemist 'peace facility' of 10.5 billion, with which, outside the budget, even more global war can be waged. Last week, in reply to my question, the Minister said that I do not want to be messed up by a European army. These are all steps in that direction. I would therefore like the Minister to make it quite clear that he is in favour of this peace facility and these initiatives. How is it going to prevent us from being forced into the European army by all sorts of steps? 'Cause that's actually happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u93	A question, though. Should the Minister end up using this European Peace Facility, do you think we should simply call it a 'European army' from the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u94	I think that's what you said the other day. I also very much appreciate the fact that you are constantly clarifying this. If you act as a European army, if it looks like a European army, if there are indeed additional powers, if powers are given away to Europe in foreign policy in particular, then I fear that at some point you will have to say, looking back: hey, we warned: that European army is there. You are a warm supporter of that European army, I think it is something horrible and others say it too, but I agree with you that it needs to be clarified and that the Netherlands should be in a clear position to do so. I hope that you will be less cheerful and that the European army will not be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u95	Then I conclude that fear of the SP is a lot for D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u96	Hope is important, but in this case I fear that the short-sightedness of D66 removes the hope of genuine European cooperation, because the basis for such far-reaching decisions is far from being accepted. I can't see it now, with all the projects and developments there are. The democratic deficit is growing. Europe is actually undermining itself. Let alone bring peace and security closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u97	I think you should have clarity in that discussion about the European army, because I think it would be unwise to say: because they work together, we call it a European army. That's not clear. That's not clear. When has the SP reached the border and she says: we are really not going to do this; this is a European army that is not viable for us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u98	I have already made it very clear that what is now ahead is a bridge too far. In the second term, I will also make proposals on this. With the PESCO projects, Member States are forced to stop a certain proportion of their expenditure in development, thus directly facilitating industry. On top of that, foreign decision-making, which is now taking place on the basis of unanimity, will become part of it. You can say that in this Parliament we are ultimately talking about whether we are broadcasting or not, but as with NATO, when the strategy is defined and you commit yourself to foreign policy with far-reaching powers and there is also financial intertwining, everything contributes to having that European army. If the VVD really doesn't want that, we need to create all this clarity now and the VVD must also say no to all these matters until there is clarity. Because we agree on this cooperation, but it is already there. This is also apparent from all the technical briefings. That cooperation is already there. Mr. Bosman says he wants to help SMEs and Dutch companies move forward. But look at what is going on in Europe now: I fear that the big boys, the big military industries, the arms industry, will run away with the loot. It's not for nothing that Trump wants his own arms industry on the one hand and Macron on the other. What about us? Should we be in on that? I'm saying no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u99	I am glad that Mrs Karabulut is standing up for the Dutch defence industry; that is good. The point is that we, as the Netherlands, always have control over our own armed forces. It's a Dutch army. It's our responsibility, our authority. With regard to all the partnerships that exist, we always have the opportunity to say no. That is, in my view, the core of our own responsibility and not the transfer of that responsibility. So that doesn't mean you have a European army. I think that's the border, but I'd like to hear if Mrs Karabulut sees that line differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u100	I am very clear about this: we have long overwritten that border with all the developments that have been going very fast in the last year. Especially when such a peace facility, which is a mockery of war, is added to it and gives away your powers in the field of foreign affairs, you will be messed up. Then you can say that we are going to talk about that, but when you make those agreements in an international context and determine foreign policy that Defense will eventually broadcast, in practice you will be dragged along and you will be forced to participate in even more global wars and operations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u101	Thank you. Did you come to the end of your speech? Or just now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u102	No, not just yet. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to return to the staff, especially to the Royal Marechaussee. It is one of the military organizations that is important to our compact military force. Research shows that the KMar is sighing under the workload. She's getting a new job. At the same time, it is not up to it at the moment. All kinds of research are being carried out, but is the Minister prepared to take these concerns seriously and to meet the KMar and recruit extra permanent staff? I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President, I would like to go to my city: Amsterdam. The directors seem to be an unreliable partner for Amsterdam. The Navy site in Amsterdam is beautiful and would be returned to the Amsterdammers in 2013 by Defence as a whole.We have very nice plans for the site because that base would no longer be used. Now it appears that this year the directors and the Defence Organization informed my city that this is not the case. I don't think there's any justification, but mostly you can't handle your partners like that. I would therefore like to make this clear and hope that this beautiful piece of Amsterdam will soon be returned to the Amsterdammers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u103	Thank you. Mrs Belhaj of D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This cabinet has given itself a legitimate mandate: to get the basic readiness in the Defense Department in order. After years of austerity, after years of delayed maintenance, that is a necessity and the promise of this cabinet. That is quite a challenge, given that winter jackets cannot be ordered on time, given that maintenance of equipment has been left for years and has not been financially covered and the lack of a safe open culture within Defence. This cabinet is finally taking the necessary steps to get things in order, but are the appropriate measures being taken and is that at an appropriate pace? That's D66's main concern. Mr. Chairman. Let me take you and the Chamber to the year 2030. We are making this time jump to understand why D66 now considers some measures necessary. It is now clear that instability in the world is increasing rapidly and that the complexity and extent of threats vary at a rapid pace. Whether this also leads to a new geopolitical reality is not certain, but what we do know is that we must be able to count on a modern and versatile military force that is well equipped and capable of carrying out constitutional tasks. Mr. Chairman. In 2030, in the case of D66, Defence is an official top employer, an efficient military force with an employability with all signals on the green, should it indeed be unexpectedly necessary to guarantee the freedom and security of our kingdom or those of our allies. Solving the staff shortage was not a coincidence but a clear mission. The fear that in 2021 the number of jobs in the Defense Department would reach 10,000 has not come true. That would have been a disaster scenario. After all, without people no force. The 60,000 military ultimately have excellent working conditions, all in the spirit of time in 2030. It is particularly interesting to see that the military is a healthy reflection of society. The commitment of Secretary of State Visser, who insisted that it was important to pay attention to diversity, was rewarded. The entire Defence Summit also supported this mission, diversity and inclusiveness. The Belhaj motion on the plan of approach diversity and inclusiveness proved to be only a small support but was mostly necessary. At a time when there were so many challenges on her plate, the Secretary of State was luckily brave enough to understand that a monocultural organization is undesirable and does not contribute to the acceptance of someone who is just as different from the homogeneous dominant group. Also beautiful is the fact that women can be found in various layers of the organisation, all thanks to an active commitment and strategy, focused on scouting and accompaniment. Mr. Chairman. The diseased culture in some places in the armed forces was structurally addressed by the top of the defense and in all layers was heard. Structural patterns of bullying, intimidation, hazing or abuse will cease to exist in 2030. Yes, there was a great deal of resistance at the time and some felt that the measures were exaggerated, but the Defence Organization expressed in word and deed that unprofessional and criminal behavior is not tolerated. Mr. Chairman. In 2030, the flexible staffing system was finally abolished from the beginning of the 20th century. There has been an opportunity to speed up the flow and speed up the deployment of side-intromers in the armed forces. The maximum age of 28 years to apply for a job in the Defense Department has been abolished. Reservist his or part-time work at Defense alongside another job in business is now more rule than exception. The Netherlands is unique with its adaptive force and is seen internationally as the country that took the right steps earlier. Mr. Chairman. A second mission took place in 2030 with a European military force. In 2026, former minister Bijleveld admitted in an extensive interview that it was a bit strange that she still thought in 2018 that there would be no European military force, but in fact, Minister Bijleveld had taken all the steps in the period 2017-2021 to achieve a European military force, albeit pragmatically, building on the house, a military force for Europeans. She rightly indicated in that interview in 2026, at her 68th, by that time probably the retirement age, that she was quite proud of that. The idea that the European armed forces would only consist of a European division in a building, as the Minister said in 2018, has eventually become a European headquarters. And, guess what, this headquarters is named after our current minister, the Bijleveld European Headquarters. Finally, a military institute bears the name of a woman. It took a long time and, unfortunately, where Mr Bosman failed to get the new supply ship of the Royal Navy named after Francien de Zeeuw, he finally succeeded. It took a while. Mr Bosman got the taste in this female committee and then worked for decades to make sure that Defense has a greater eye for female heroes. Unfortunately, he just missed the OPZIJ Man-of-the-year prize. Mr. Chairman. In addition to NATO, European defence cooperation has also proved successful. Finally, together with the EU countries, we are investing in material innovation, training and training. Instead of all spending separate small budgets and double costs, capacities are being developed jointly. The European armed forces also tackle training and training together and are well coordinated. Military people see it as a major gain that they can participate in the Dutch military missions and at the same time be under the command of a European authority and run European missions. Macron and Merkel were the forerunners, but it was Rutte who, with a trade spirit, had suddenly become a great leader of European cooperation. Under NATO flag, as well as in cooperation with European countries under the European flag, the Dutch armed forces ensure freedom and security. The new female president of the United States in 2030, the third again, also welcomes European defence cooperation, as there was unrest in 2018. In fact, the Americans find it nice and logical that the European countries, alongside NATO, also have strong joint cooperation and are not necessarily dependent on the Americans. Even though it is 85 years after Churchill's call at the Yalta conference: After the Americans have gone home I must think seriously about the future. Mr. Chairman. It is particularly important that the Defence Energy Strategy initiative paper of the undersigned and the ambitions of the Defence Department itself have actually ensured that the equipment has been preserved. We are virtually independent of fossil fuels on missions that have made missions safer for our people. It is also a good thing that the Netherlands acted in good time. The Material Fund proved to be a crucial link in this respect. Mr. Chairman. The effort to invest as much as possible in innovation and R&D has also helped the military. By investing effectively in innovative equipment and new technologies, not only has Defence proved future-proof, but business and society have also benefited from this. This is due, among other things, to the fact that I am once again asking the Minister about the transparency of the allocation of innovation and R&D technology budgets. Mr. Chairman. I'll come back to today. In 2030, we will have a military force ready for the future, but the right measures must be taken now. That is also our obligation to the next generation. Only in this way can we maintain the same level of security and prosperity. It is our duty to think about all the choices we are making now, because they have a huge impact on the future. That the Defense Organization is not a maneuverable ship, I have experienced in the last three years. It tends more towards a sort of mammoth tanker that occasionally gets stuck in "but that's how we've always done it." This surprises me every day, all the more so because I still have the hope that Defense will always look outward and see new threats coming, but the greatest threat is perhaps internal: the fear to embrace courageously forward changes. We do not just do a culture change on paper or just with the use of rulers. Despite all the hotlines and the creation of an Inspector General Security, my main concern remains the willingness of the organization to see that the trust is gone from the staff and that even the best intentions to make it up to them are sometimes too little. I believe in even more evidence that people have the right to recognition and that actions say more than words. The organization has been neglected, and that is not only because of the cuts. This correction is a difficult task and it is up to the directors to start the positive picture that I wanted to outline for 2030 today. Take what frustrates people seriously today. Today we understand that procedures do not make the organisation better. And taking steps today that extend beyond tomorrow's day. Looking back from the future helps us to understand the important choices we face today. D66 represents a military force based on the new reality and the steps that must now be taken for a military force of the future. This already means focusing on more diversity and inclusiveness for an open and safe culture and working environment within the organisation. That is why I ask the Secretary of State whether she will also ensure that the resources needed for this will also be available for the Diversity & Inclusiveness Plan. This already means less dependence on polluting fossil fuels, a commitment to safer missions and further European defence cooperation. In order to contribute to this, we will table a motion on a European military training ground in Europe through PESCO in the second term. One of my colleagues mentioned it: the importance of the future of the Navy establishment is unclear as far as D66 is concerned. I hope that the Minister will indicate today what is useful and necessary and what is its financial coverage. Mr. Chairman. I conclude with the fact that today, in 2018, we have a Security Action Plan, have a Defence Paper, have a Defence Industry Strategy Paper, have an Innovation Paper, have a Preservation and Recruitment Note, and unfortunately do not have a plan for a European military force, but do take many steps in the field of European defence cooperation. We are taking steps to acquire material sustainably, and there will be a Real Estate Note and a renewed energy strategy. From my position as a Member of Parliament, I have tried to make my contribution in drawing up all these notes and policies. Of course I will continue to do so. It is now up to the directors to implement all these plans properly and to make them part of reality. Because the reality of the people that I think they should safely do their work with the necessary equipment, is what will become the touchstone for D66. So we come to a proud organisation, with confidence, ready for tomorrow and even before 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u105	Mrs. Bruins Slot has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u106	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Not about the future, because I can't look at coffee, but about the importance that we really need to build a strong military force. My question is very practical. I agree with Mrs Belhaj that it is important for our military to be able to practice closer to home. This saves a lot of time and is also good and efficient, but it must be more than excellent practice facilities. Mrs Belhaj talks about PESCO to do that. But I know that in Germany they are building a huge training city in Altmark, from 220 million, with trams and trains up to and including aircraft, with houses; everything is going to be there. So my specific question is: would it not be appropriate, apart from the structured relationship within Europe, to join Germany? Altmark is just within travel distance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u107	I think it is a very interesting idea, as Mrs Bruins Slot points out here on behalf of the CDA. And of course that is also PESCO: when one country makes huge investments, you try to join, but you also try to use the budgets that lie ahead, because every PESCO project generates 10% more opportunities. So if there is the possibility of joining with several countries, I think that's very good. We'll have to make sure our military can practice there. If it is only for Germany and for the German military, which is also important, then I think we are missing a huge opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u108	Of course, we are already working with Germany in many areas. We'll do it bilaterally. Mr Bosman also gave some good examples of this. So, apart from the European context, would it also be possible to do so bilaterally, Mrs Belhaj?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u109	You can always do that. The more bilaterally... But there is also, of course, the opportunity to do so through PESCO, which allows you to claim the budgets that are there for that. It does not seem to me that the CDA would like us to abandon European funds, which are also available to the Dutch military. I would therefore like it bilaterally, and I would like it to be 10 countries. As far as D66 is concerned, the more European cooperation, the better. This is especially important for our military, who must be able to practice well, and not have to go all the way to the United States to do their exercises there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u110	I thought I'd take it easy today. But I heard a story about 2030, a very naive, gullible story, about the fact that there are notes and that you have participated in them. And in 2030, folks, it'll all be fine. I think it's a little too easy, too naive for D66 to be so gullible and think the world is putting together like this. That's not the way the world is. If Trump says we're going to war somewhere before 2030, our minister is going after it. If England goes to war with Russia, we will. At the moment when the big countries press the buttons, our ministers and secretaries of state are doing it. So your 2030 story, with the notes you've worked on, is unrealistic. It is also not fair to tell the D66 members and voters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u111	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u112	My question is: do you really believe in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u113	D66 believes that all the steps you're taking now will ultimately have their impact by 2030, just as well as we will suffer from the decisions we made ten years ago in 2018. That's how it works. That's just reality. The evidence is here today, with a neglected defense organization. So what we want to do, at least that is what D66 considers to be very important is to take the right steps now, so that by 2030 we can also talk about a military force that is simply in order, that can guarantee peace and security and even address your concerns about foreign powers and the unrest that can arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u114	The reality is that your cabinet, the cabinet you support, is giving money to terrorists and rebel groups in Syria. I suspect, but I can't prove it, that this is still happening elsewhere in the world. With that kind of thing, with the outside effects of your plans, ideas and naive thoughts, you don't take into account. There are still dirty, rotten practices, even by your own government, supported by you. Aren't you a little naive and gullible, following a policy that, in our opinion, is a little behind the big countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u115	D66 considers it important that the Dutch armed forces can carry out their constitutional tasks. That means you have to invest. That means you have to make plans. You can't think randomly, just like that, about 12 years: gosh, there's Russians coming or something else, what are we gonna do now? D66 therefore believes in that longer-term vision and believes that you have to take all the steps to ensure that there is real security in the future, which even DENK thinks: yet it is nice that we have a military force that is in order; yet it is nice that the right investment has been made and the right steps have been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u116	Mr. Bosman. Mr. Öztürk, you can shake no at me, but I'm shaking no at you. We're doing interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u117	I have seen two and a half interruptions among all my previous colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u118	Two and a half? Then I'll allow you half a question. Half a question!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u119	This is what I mean by justice. You've given everyone the opportunity and to me...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u120	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u121	So my question is: not everything you say is actually being applied fairly. The world isn't that honest, with plans and ideas. The world is unfair. Unfair powers abuse our military, abuse our Secretary of State and Secretary of State. What are you gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u122	The fact of injustice in the world is, for me personally, a reason for wanting to go into politics. I believe that from this place you can take measures in a certain way and in all modesty to combat injustice. I know that to this day I am saying things on behalf of D66 and I think that in order to ensure that people in the future do not suffer from injustice, are not dependent on dictatorship, do not have to flee and that journalists, politicians, scientists, people of the arts never have to be afraid but can always count on a military force to protect them and ensure peace and security. That's why I'm doing it. That's why I can speak so passionately about Defense, to ensure that injustice doesn't get a chance in the Netherlands or in this world. That's what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u123	I liked the story. I thought it was an interesting story. Look at the diversity we already have in this room. I see two women rulers there. The chairman is a lady. Most of the spokesmen are ladies. We have to fight to get it right. I'm fighting for it, too. Calling a building after a woman is nice, but it has to be a ship! That's the point. But that's gonna be okay. I'm just saying there's gonna be a ship named Francien the Zeeuw one day. I do have another question. If we have Mrs Belhaj's European military force in 2030, then who will decide to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u124	That is the most important question. Macron originally had a completely different idea, namely to use a kind of intervention force without any guarantee in Brussels. Merkel spoke of a European army, but with important guarantees in the national parliaments. She calls it a European army and I call it a European army. If it is necessary in the Netherlands to consider what military efforts are being made on behalf of the Netherlands in a European military force and this is important for the democratic touchstone that we use for it, that is fine, but as far as I am concerned it is also called a European army. You decide on the basis of foreign and security policy in Brussels. That's what you're gonna find out. The Netherlands will then say whether or not it agrees with it. Then the Minister comes to the Chamber to ask if we think that is a good foreign and security policy. Then we're all gonna give things along, and then the Minister can or won't decide to finally agree. At the moment when the Netherlands agrees to this and, for example, with the deployment of such a peace force, I think that this is a test of whether we are using the right equipment, but ultimately it is a European mission. So there is a European flag on it, as is the case with NATO missions, but with the big difference that NATO has a different basis than the European military force based on the European foreign and security policy and the European foreign and security strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u125	I'd like a clasp-and-ready answer. What everyone else says is fine with me, but I like to hear from D66 who ultimately has control. I understand that there may be some tests, also under Article 100. If I listen carefully, what Mrs Belhaj says about 2030 is already happening. Whether NATO, Europe or the UN are asking for something, we are going to review it here by means of an Article 100 procedure; on Thursday we are going to discuss another one here. So that's what we're gonna talk about. What, according to Mrs Belhaj, will be different in 2030 than what we are already doing about testing? Then who's gonna decide to broadcast?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u126	There are two important key moments. The first important moment is whether the Netherlands agrees to a European foreign and security vision and strategy. If, for example, it says that Europe is going to commit itself to African missions, which is literally what it is, then the moment was actually last week, to say: 'Dear Minister, I do not want you to agree to them'. In my view, however, a majority has agreed to it, which has led to a go to do so. They're gonna cut it off with each other later. If that is the case, then the consequence is that on that basis it will be decided to undertake European missions. This is not due to the fact that this cabinet has invented certain missions. Then comes the second moment of decision, namely when the Minister states that the Netherlands has been asked to deploy so many special forces and so many ships. Then he comes with the request: 'Dear Foreign Affairs Commission', do you think that is a good idea and are there any comments or comments left? Well then everyone says: based on the advice of the Commander of the Armed Forces, we can do this, so let's do that. That's the way I see it. Mrs Merkel calls that a European army, Mr Macron calls that a European army, and in the Netherlands we are doing very complicated about it. I don't think it has to be complicated. It is simply a European military force in the end. Resources, people, strategy and commitment are all arranged in 2018. We love it. Now let's get the VVD!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u127	In conclusion, I do not hear anything but what we are doing already. The Netherlands has control. The cabinet holds control. Parliament's gonna review it. Article 100 is simply the basis for everything we are going to do in respect of any commitment anywhere. No matter what we call it, the control is here and stays here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u128	That is an interesting conclusion, but last week we gave up control in part by agreeing to a common foreign and security strategy and by agreeing to a peace force to be deployed in Africa. I don't mind you agreeing, Mr Bosman, but I do think it is important that we address that today. If people don't agree, they'll have to file motions that they don't agree. This is the last minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u129	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Kerstens, I would like to suspend for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u130	We will continue to deal with the defence budget. I give the floor to Mr Kerstens of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had hoped that today I could have congratulated the Secretary of State and the Minister, but above all the almost 60,000 men and women of Defence, on a nice new collective agreement. But unfortunately: last night the discussion had just resumed. And with that, the Minister and the Secretary of State have once again missed a golden opportunity to show that it is serious with all the fine words about the people of Defense the respect and the appreciation they deserve. And it all started out so beautifully, with the in the Defence Note on one of the people of Defense, both military personnel and civilian personnel. And rightly so, because they deserve it and they deserve it. The Defence Note says literally: "First of all, we are going to invest in our people. We want to restore their trust in the organization. Just to keep them for our organization." The cabinet has been there for over a year now. This Minister and this Secretary of State have been there for over a year now. It is time to ask the question: how do you feel about it? Did you invest in your people first? Has confidence in the organization been restored? And do you manage to keep your people for the organization? How do you feel about it? I spoke to some of the people who work at the Department of Defense earlier this week, and they actually knew the answer. When you talk to them, you hear: "Why is there still no decent collective agreement, in which we also see the appreciation we deserve in our wallet? Why is Defense still rolling from front page to front page and from Question Time to Question Time, with incidents where we, your people, are always the victims? If something happens to you, why is it still wiser not to mention it than to walk the official routes?" And what does the unprecedented harsh refusal to adapt the chrome-6 scheme, which they regard as an insult, without victims and relatives, do with that confidence? Why is the number of experienced people that Defence continues to turn its back early? The beautiful words when visiting in the field or on the barracks, in notes and in plans: they are not enough. In fact, using them repeatedly without converting them into action makes them blunt. It makes them not contribute to more trust, but to less. What is written in the Defence Note, and what I just quoted literally, goes even further than fine words alone. It's a tough promise, black-and-white, made to all the people, all the men and women, of Defense: "First, we're going to invest in our people." That's not one promise, that's even two: we're going to invest in our people and that's the first thing we're going to do. How? That's how I ask the Minister and the Secretary of State. Because I don't see it and more importantly, your people don't feel it. With this you play high game at a time when there is extra money, at a time when your people are getting more and more firmly showing that they are tired of walking in demonstrations or running away from the organization, at a time when more and more commanders are publicly expressing themselves for, for example, a good collective agreement and at a time when you make tough promises of your own, we first invest in our people but do not comply with them. I don't think it's wise, and that's an understatement. That is why I repeat the call, especially after last night, for the negotiations to turn your people into one after all and to stop using the deterioration of the military pension scheme as a means of blackmail, but to prevent it and to agree a good collective agreement quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u132	Before proceeding, Mr Öztürk has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u133	We consider investing in our Defence personnel, in salaries and materials, also very important, but you need money to invest. You can do a few things: performing fewer missions is an option, but you can also buy a few fewer JSF planes. What would the PvdA choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u134	Neither one of them. The decision to purchase the much-needed JSF was taken in the previous cabinet period and money has already been put aside for that. Those planes are from the factory now, so to speak. There's also a lot of test flying. The experiences with that are very good. When it comes to missions: the Labour Party, like most of the parties here, looks at what is necessary by mission, or it can safely do so, we certainly look at last year's report by the General Court of Auditors and whether our Defence Organisation can deliver on what we ask of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u135	Those JSFs are ordered, but you can also buy one or two less; then you have a lot of money for salaries from our staff. Why am I asking? At the PvdA it is always different: in the opposition she was against the JSF, in the coalition she was for the JSF. I thought, now that they're in the opposition for a year and a half, maybe they think a few planes can be less, so we can end up investing in our military.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u136	Mr Öztürk may have noticed that in the previous cabinet period, despite the fact that we were in the biggest crisis after the Second World War, not only was a decision taken to purchase the much-needed JSFs, but also slowly increased money from the Defence Department. Luckily, this cabinet is putting a little bit more on top of that. It is about making the right choices within that budget. Mr Öztürk knows me. I believe that in making these choices, first and foremost, that the rulers should also look at the people of Defence in the Defence Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u137	Clear. Mr. Öztürk, we're not going to make a habit of interrupting anymore. I've allowed everyone half a question before I've suspended, but I'm gonna do it tighter now, because I'm looking at the clock and...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u138	That always happens to me exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u139	No, that's not true at all. I've been very fair here. Mr Kerstens therefore continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u140	In order to anticipate this good collective agreement, which must be achieved, let us wait even longer for the people of Defence to show their appreciation, I am breeding for an amendment or motion, without compromising the wage and negotiation space at the collective agreement table, without being seen as a cloth for bleeding or a bribe, but as a gesture to the people of Defence. I would have liked this gesture to come from the Secretary of State himself, but perhaps we should show something in this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. In a changing world, where yesterday's certainties are tomorrow's uncertainties... I have the feeling that Mr Bosman still wants to respond to the previous point. Then I'll just keep this text to myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u141	There was a quick sentence: if the employer and the employee do not come out in the negotiations, the Court is in a position to act. Is that the standard technique of the Labour Party or am I missing something?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u142	We are not at the negotiating table. I'd like to sit there once in a while, but I'm not there. The Secretary of State and the Defence Trade Unions are at the negotiating table. Last week, your group also voted in favour of calling on the Secretary of State to come forward quickly with a good collective agreement. I note that this has not been achieved. Apparently, no agreement has been reached. I would say: let us as parties together ensure that the pension, in anticipation of a definitive scheme, does not deteriorate as of 1 January 2019, let us agree on a good collective agreement together. That didn't work. If all of us here, in all the contributions, in all the debates we have had here over the last few weeks and months, do not say that the people of Defence deserve appreciation and respect, that a fine collective agreement is an important instrument in this respect, then I think it is my responsibility to see whether, apart from these collective bargaining negotiations, I can give these people a token of appreciation. It would be nice if you'd join us in that. I'm looking at Mrs. Bruins Slot right now. In the legislative consultation Staff she used this term literally: extra appreciation for the military. I'd like to look for that, and I hope that others will look into how we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u143	That is clear, because I am a little concerned about the role that we as a Chamber draw to us in all kinds of negotiations. I'd be sorry if we pulled that whole process towards us, that unions... I am a big fan of the unions, let me put it this way, I myself have been a member of a central board of a union, which has an essential role to play. If we are going to negotiate on different subjects now, I think that would be unwise and I also think to the detriment of the trade unions. So please clarify that that is not the intention of Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u144	I can reassure Mr Bosman in that. That's not intent. The negotiations are the negotiations. They take much longer than we all want, and that good collective agreement has not come any closer. I think that as a Chamber we should look at how we can provide our fine words with action or, without compromising negotiation space, without going through those negotiations, how we can also do something for the men and women of Defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u145	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u146	In a changing world, where yesterday's certainties are tomorrow's uncertainties and war is politics that continues with ever different means, a strong, agile defence organisation that can operate in an international context is vital. Men and women who land here, but also elsewhere in the world, contribute to peace, to security, to freedom for all of us. From our parents and grandparents, from our children and grandchildren, now and in the future. A while ago, we were able to learn about the future vision of our army through the newspaper. That piece was a relief. Finally, after all the front page news about what is not in order, someone who says which way it is going and who has thought about it. A fine piece of work by the Commander of the Land Force, that has to be said, but it does raise questions. Why do we have to read that in the paper? Do I have to subscribe to that newspaper so I don't miss out on what the future vision of our Navy is, of our Air Force, of our Royal Marechaussee? Are they still coming? How does this vision, which is presented as the elaboration of the Defence Note of earlier this year, which, as it is called, is the starting point for the long lines of development for the armed forces, in the run-up to the new vision of our armed forces promised for 2020? And above all, where is the minister in this story? She's responsible for that vision. Where's her direction? Is it there, when are we gonna see it and how? The Labour Party likes to talk constructively about it, because, as has been said, a strong, agile defence organization that can operate in an international context is of great importance for peace, security and freedom for all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u147	On the contrary, I found it very interesting that the army came up with its own vision, because I think it is important that soldiers themselves think about how best to face the future. But now I hear Mr Kerstens say: no, that should go top-down? As a conductor, the minister must tell the various armies what to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u148	No, Mrs. Bruins Slot didn't hear me say that. I also started by complimenting the army for that piece. I've called it "a relief," regardless of the delusion of the day, watching what we want to look like in the future. But I only have one question and that is why I did not use the term "conductor" either, but the term "director." That is because I expect the Minister to direct it, that not every military component for itself, so to speak, is doing important homework but that it fits in with a comprehensive story of where we all want to go with our armed forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u149	That certainly clarifies it, because the CDA thinks it is important that armies also think about what they need for the future, because you also just want the mind not to stand still. And the world around us is changing fast. Should I then understand Mr Kerstens in such a way that he actually says: towards the future, should you come up with a new vision to ultimately ensure that our armed forces can also meet the new challenges of the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u150	That is exactly what I am asking the Minister. A new Defence Note is being discussed. At the same time, we are in the process of putting the armed forces in order today. That's what you see when they order new equipment. Sometimes that's to replace the previous one. But the world around us is changing. This has been pointed out by colleagues in several interruptions and in several contributions. Besides, even if you missed it in this debate, you'll notice that the world is changing. The Labour Party, like the CDA, is therefore of the opinion that this new vision should be created and that, of course, the knowledge and experience of our people in the Defense Department should be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u151	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u152	Mr President, I was on my way to a conclusion. As I said, the men and women of our armed forces serve peace, security and freedom here, but also elsewhere in the world. When I say "everywhere in the world," I am obviously talking about the various missions in which our people are involved. For these missions, soldiers are often long and distant from home. They're accompanied by tension. This applies on the spot to the military in question and to his or her colleagues, but also to the home front. That home front is evident over and over again and needs to be more, more often and better informed during missions. This information must therefore be better and more tailor-made. In her recent Veteran lecture in Ede, the Minister also talked about this. I would like to ask the Minister whether she has now started working on it and whether, for example, in the next Veterans' Note, she can share with us and show us how it works in the form of a new method.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u153	Thank you, Mr. Christmas. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the money, with the money, because the good news is that this cabinet is spending 5 billion more on Defense. Finally, we're seeing investments in Defense again. He needs the D.O.D.'s help. 1.5 billion a year is added, at least that was the plan. The Minister has also said that the Defence Organisation has been used up in recent years. So it's a good thing we're going to repair the damage now. But the question is whether we will succeed in this cabinet period. I see in this cabinet's budget that even amounts should be transferred over this cabinet period. Hence my question about under-spending. There's another 110 million parked at Treasury. 1.5 billion from this year is already being moved to 2020. That's more money than we got this year. And 275 million... the second cash slide within the investment article.. is even moved forward to 2022, beyond this cabinet period. What does that mean for the planning of investment projects, I ask the Secretary of State. How do we prevent this money from drifting away again when another cabinet comes? Mr. Chairman. Mr Belhaj and I asked for a Defence Material Budget Fund in the budget last year. I understand that's gonna happen. Is that a solution for under-utilization? I ask the Minister and the Secretary of State. Wouldn't it be a good idea to put this in the Defence Fund instead of moving it to 2022? I would like to hear a response from the rulers on that point. Otherwise, I am considering tabling a motion on that point. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the shortage of staff. It's a big problem, but it's also a big factor. Given the shortage of staff combined with under-utilisation, I sometimes wonder what else might be possible. I am not going to sit in the chair of the Minister or the Defence Department, not even with regard to the collective bargaining. They'll have to do it on their own. But if money hasn't been spent and we have to move things backwards and if we find the personnel such an important factor within the Defense Department, what more could we do? We're dealing with about 5,000 vacancies. What more can these rulers do with any extra money? I'm not filling it out, but I'm just giving it to the rulers. Then there is the investment agenda. It is good that investments in the armed forces are planned, especially through the Dutch industry. This has been supported by the Christian Union. In the EZK budget, my colleague, together with the VVD, tabled an amendment on the sustainable shipbuilding subsidy scheme. The Christian Union advocates focusing Dutch knowledge and skills to make Defence investments innovative and sustainable. An example is naval construction, in which the research institute MARIN plays an important role. Is the Minister prepared to make the investments as innovative and sustainable as possible, together with the Dutch Defence industry, the shipbuilding industry and knowledge institutions such as MARIN? I'd like a response. Then a disturbing message that we received through people we know, but also through the British who have also publicly stated that they are very concerned about the engine maintenance contract for the JSF with Turkey. The British have indicated that they really want a contingency plan at the time of another crisis like last year with Turkey. We saw the same crisis here, just before the elections in May 2017. What happens if our JSFs in Turkey are in maintenance and another crisis breaks out? Will we get our planes back? Are the maintenances actually finished? How do we make ourselves dependent on the Turks with this maintenance contract in Europe? I would like to hear from the rulers whether there are alternatives to that. Can this maintenance also take place in the Netherlands in such a crisis situation? Do we have the knowledge and skill to do that? Do we have a contingency plan for that? Then home front check. We in the Christian Union have always insisted on this. What's the progress on the implementation of that motion? We presented this last year with Mr Ploumen. To what extent has it actually been implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u155	Thank you. I call Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u156	Mr. Chairman. A country must show determination in war, in defeat pride, in victory magnanimity and in peace benevolence. Churchill said that in the foreword of his historiography of World War II. Fortunately, we live in peacetime, but I sincerely wish the Minister and the Secretary of State all these virtues, determination, pride, generosity and goodwill in defending and preserving that peace. Last year, during the debate on the Defence Budget, the SGP called for three assurances. Security 1: sufficient practicability. How do we keep our military on track? Security 2: the right equipment. Is 1.5 billion extra enough to ensure the right kind, quantity and quality ammunition, weapons and weapon platforms? Security 3: Are the safety valves working? How do we prevent unnecessary risks from being taken? My first question is whether the rulers want to reflect on progress on these three tracks I mentioned. Today I put my finger on three other points: remembering the past, acting in the present and anticipating the future. I started with a quote from Churchill's book on World War II. During this war, the heavily obsolete Dutch armed forces did not turn out to be a party to the German armed forces. The lesson: war can neither be prevented nor won with a broken rifle. On the contrary, some leaders even see weakness as an invitation. That is why the SGP considers it important that we invest in a strong Defence. That is very important, precisely because of the fact that we have to work together to ensure never again war. Equally important is investing in good diplomatic relations and even friendships. I am therefore also thinking with some warmth of the embrace of Merkel and Macron last week during the commemoration of the end of the First World War. A powerful symbol of a heavily fought peace. That brings me right into the present. Unfortunately, our defense has not yet recovered from severe austerity. That must be a part of this Chamber, and I am particularly looking at the left side of the Chamber. This situation is all the more worrying in view of the exciting developments in the world. Russia is moving in the east and within our borders. NATO is internally divided and new means of warfare, including cyber and robots, are at the door. What to do now? Don't wait, don't wait. We have to act. How do we do that? Firstly, the Netherlands must continue to work for a versatile military force. That is why the 2% increase in the budget to the NATO standard is so important. A question is therefore: will the cabinet remain committed to the fulfilment of this promise? And this question just came up to me during the debate: can that also mean good employability and enough F-35s in the air? It also includes a mechanism for long-term financing. Both my predecessor and I have tabled motions on this matter. They have also been adopted, so I am very curious about the implementation of these motions. Secondly, we must also act in the area of European defence cooperation, however you define it. As far as I am concerned, that definition is becoming increasingly confusing, but I shall only define it so that it concerns the question, as Mr Bosman has just mentioned, where the responsibility for the sword power lies. In this respect, the SGP is clear: Member States must remain responsible for this sword power at all times. As far as we are concerned, it is therefore very good that the Minister should distance himself from the French-German plea for a European army. But opening up a political front in Europe to these initiatives is not an unnecessary luxury, and that is why we ask the Minister to actively seek cooperation with her European colleagues for a clear and effective counterweight. Thirdly, we must continue to see NATO as the cornerstone of security policy. That's why great joint exercises like Trident Juncture are crucial. Our question is therefore: how does the Minister evaluate this exercise and, above all, what are the main successes and learning points? By the way, what "carrot and stick" approach is effective, according to the Minister, to prevent the Member State from acting in violation of the spirit of the NATO Treaty? We would also like to hear the Minister's views on this. Finally, as far as action is concerned, but certainly not unimportant: continue to invest in our military. Don't ever let our people stand in the cold again. Stay focused on well-functioning processing chains, including working conditions. I've just heard a number of calls. That's what we like to get behind. Think of opportunities for growth, because with that the working at Defense also continues to be interesting for a long time. A soldier you have once inside shouldn't let go again. That's very important, to make sure you keep experience to be able to go on a mission well. It prevents the outflow, but also makes it much more attractive to recruit new people and get them to work at the Department of Defense. We would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Mr President, then my final point, the third. I've got a few minutes left, so that still fits. Governing is forward-looking. The Netherlands must actively anticipate the future of warfare. Cyber safety................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Defence Cyber Strategy is right to prove that. Our question is therefore: is the Netherlands able to detect, neutralize, repel and repay cyber threats in a timely and effective manner? We are very curious to see how the Green Left amendment in this area is being assessed. We are in favour of this in itself, but I would like to hear how the Minister and the Secretary of State look at this... I thought there was an interruption coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u157	That's what I thought. Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u158	I doubted if I would wait until the end of the text.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u159	I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u160	The SGP is known as a party that consistently supports Defence and investment in the armed forces. If we are here in a year's time, what major concern does the SGP have would you like to see minimally solved?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u161	Can I pick only one? Well, that's the staff, isn't it? I think that is crucial right now. Very good that we made a very good first bet to get extra money available. Very good of this cabinet. In that respect, congratulations, but more needs to be done and the first concern is then really the staff. Otherwise, we'll have stuff right away, but no people to do anything with that stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u162	You will continue the last part of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u163	The SGP welcomes the international consideration of the growing impact of robots, including autonomous weapons and clear international agreements on regulating their development and use. In order to have and maintain a lead in innovation, the Netherlands must therefore comply with the NATO target and invest 20% of the Defence budget in equipment, including research and development, research and development. The Netherlands has been left behind in the last few years, but the road has gone up and I would say: hang in there. But we also see as SGP another possibility, other opportunities in terms of innovation. Our question is therefore whether the Minister of Innovation in the field of products for both civil and military use, innovation in the field of dual-use goods................................................................................................................................................... How is it promoted that society contributes optimally to and benefits from innovations, for example through agreements on the access of Dutch companies to knowledge and technology developed by Defence? Finally, Mr President. Effective Defense policy is about remembrance, action and foresight, because the ruthless battlefield is everything but honorable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u164	Nice closure. Mr Stoffer said something very compact in two short sentences. I'd still like to ask him if he could say a little more about that. Mr Stoffer said in his speech that the development of artificial intelligence, robotisation and autonomous action requires regulation and standardisation. How exactly does Mr Stoffer see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u165	That is a short question, but it could of course be a huge discussion and a long answer. If you're not careful, it could go a long way. We don't really have a picture of exactly where that should stop, but you can't let it go on infinitely. It's something you have to think about together. You can't do that right here, but I don't know Mrs. Bruins Slot like that either. It's really something that has to come from the D.O.D. itself. There's an ethical element to that, too. Where are these boundaries? That is actually the right question and I am not going to tell you exactly where it is, but Mrs Bruins Slot does not expect me to do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u166	Mrs. Bruins Slot, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u167	I don't expect that either, but I do see that it's an important question, because our potential opponents are very busy developing these kinds of systems. That also requires an answer and a way in which we deal with it. In any case, it is about what is allowed, what is not allowed, which is ethical, but also about how to defeat such threats, for example from China, which invests a lot in them. Is that all those questions that Mr Stoffer would like answered in the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u168	I like it very much: yes. It's always the case that you can decide something for yourself, but, to be crazy Gerritje, when someone else gets over it, it doesn't work. So that question actually has an international context. It is very nice that you raise this question in this way. That is exactly the question we would like an answer to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u169	Thank you. Finally, Mr Öztürk has the floor on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u170	Mr. Chairman. I'm putting my heart on my tongue and my finger in the sore spot today. Today I advocate more diversity within the Defense Department, for tackling the rotten culture, for a good salary and good equipment for our military. I'd like to list the pain points. I speak out against the incomprehensible meddling, against the need to go after large countries, against looking away from the greatest humanitarian disasters, and against buying expensive toys such as submarines and the JSF. Mr. Chairman. I'm kicking off with the military. Think of a good reward for our defense personnel. By saving on one submarine you can invest 1 billion euros in your own staff, invest in better salaries, invest in safety and invest in equipment and training. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State and the Minister have other priorities and leave our soldiers in the cold. Several reports agreed with each other: Defence gets an insufficient level of industrial security. There's money at the Department of Defense for the purchase of clothes. There are companies that can supply military clothing, but still it went wrong in a UN exercise in cold Norway. The D.O.D.'s clothing company couldn't buy clothing for our military in time. That's why the Secretary of State placed the responsibility on our military. They had to order their own coats. What's the Secretary of State doing? Why is the Secretary of State playing poker with military security?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u171	Mr Öztürk regularly says that if you do not buy one submarine or a number of F-35s, you can invest in staff. But you still have structural money and occasional money. So Mr Öztürk says: we are going to invest in staff by buying fewer and fewer equipment. Then what are the military gonna do their job with?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u172	Those submarines are used to collect intelligence for large countries, so we're more or less hired by large countries. And if you buy one less submarine, we'll also save on maintenance costs and all the personnel that have to work with it. So you save money every year, to give our Defense personnel more salary and better equipment. So our commitment is that we do not allow ourselves to be abused by large countries, by oil interests and by powerful business interests. The money must be put on the staff, including people, soldiers, who want to give their lives for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u173	It refers to the large countries. The Netherlands is the seventeenth economy of the world. We make our money abroad, trade anywhere in the world. Then it's a little weird that you say of these kinds of resources that are essential for security, of that trade anywhere in the world, "I'm saying goodbye to that. That's convenient. This is a one-off investment, but I use it structurally, apparently for personnel costs." Then you are getting more and more away from the equipment, which is also essential for safety and which is also essential for men and women to do their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u174	Mr Bosman thinks of euros, money, interests and power, as long as they come in. He does not care that we support a dirty war, that we support the oil interests of certain powerful countries and that a lot of people die or go through business. That's what Trump says: "I made appointments with the Saudis. My boyfriends have to produce weapons, so what happens to a person, whether they die or not, I don't care." That's the line I hear from the VVD. That is Mr Bosman's line. It's just a short-sighted tunnel vision. As long as the euros come, as long as the money comes. He doesn't care if it's a dirty war.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u175	This is a personal matter, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u176	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u177	It is totally inappropriate what is being said here. It is the line of Mr Öztürk. That's how we know him, but I think it's totally inappropriate. I'm not going to continue the discussion, but what you can't say is that I'm here supporting dirty wars. It is totally inappropriate, but in line with what Mr Öztürk has always said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u178	Mr Öztürk continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u179	If Mr Bosman does not support the dirty war, then he must not follow every mission without seeing the consequences for our military. Mr. Chairman. I will continue with the next point, concerning the misconduct of military forces. The stories we hear are the result of the closed culture within the Defense Department. The SCP report already concluded that people who deviated from the standard were confronted with harassment and exclusion. That is why you must immediately ensure that a cultural change takes place. Among other things, you do that by punishing the guilty and maintaining the standard properly. In addition, the presence of different cultures and backgrounds is important. In recruiting new employees, attention should be paid to diversity. Defence needs not only more women, it is right that there are more women now, that is good.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Does the Secretary of State believe that Defense is a reflection of society? What additional plans does she have to change this? What has the Minister done already? When I look at the Chamber now, at the spokesmen, the rulers and the chairman, I see a variety of compositions: man and woman, Mr Bosman of age, younger people like me. You just see a very diverse society with various backgrounds. That's what we should be getting from the DOD. This is an example for the Minister. The Netherlands is champion of intelligence gathering. Yes, that is where this minister's priority is: spying on other countries and gathering information. And what do we do with this information? We share it with Trump and the British. We allow ourselves to be abused by the big countries, but what does this get us? According to Mr Bosman euros and power. There is a cyber war with Russia, said Minister Bijleveld at WNL on Sunday. I thought: wow, from now on I'm going to WNL, I don't have to read any pieces; there you hear we're at war. But I thought we made the agreement that if there's a war, the Chamber will first be informed through an article 100 letter. I haven't seen it so far. Apparently, there's a cyber war going on in the Cabinet with big countries. Only, we have made agreements here and the Minister must keep to the agreements. So I'd like to get more on this. Mr President, on the move of the Marine Station. In 2011, then Minister of Defence Hans Hillen of the CDA decided not to renovate the barracks in Doorn. This barracks was very old and too small. That's why the barracks had to move to Vlissingen. To make the construction possible, the province and the municipality of Vlissingen have made the necessary land available. There have also been huge costs incurred. A deal's a deal, you'd think. But now the move is under pressure. Marines are threatening to leave the force, partly because of the mood of a general. According to this corps commander, the move would endanger the safety of the Netherlands. Does the government have any indication that the Netherlands is in danger? Is it normal for such a high-level military to interfere in a political choice and a political discussion? I don't think so. Mr. Chairman. The issue of Defense should not be linked to relocation plans. The Court's report already concluded that too much pressure is being put on the armed forces. The reason for this is the large number of missions in which the Netherlands participates. In Washington a button is pressed or NATO pushes a button and hoppa, our soldiers have to go back on mission. We have talked recently about the Dutch commitment in Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan and Mali. But where did this meddling come from? Why do we feel compelled to invade other countries? Have these countries become safer after our intervention? No. It is remarkable that western interference with conflicts depends on the raw materials in the region. For convenience, I took the map of the world. In Iraq, we felt it necessary to intervene. What was in Iraq again? Yeah, it's right, huge oil supplies. What about Syria? Yes, oil. The bottom is full of oil. And Afghanistan, there's no oil there anyway, I recently heard from former VVD member Han ten Broeke. Yes, that's right, but huge amounts of rare minerals: 1 trillion euros. The last item in the list is the major mission we are currently participating in, namely the mission in Mali, where there are large, profitable gold mines. Why don't we go to Yemen, where 14 million Yemenis are starving? Why don't we go to Myanmar, where genocide is committed on the Rohingya? Why do we not go to China, where the human rights of Uighurs are being violated? The answer is clear: it is self-interest. It's about dirty, dirty geopolitical games. It is a question of distribution and control policy. It is about the jobs, such as those of Mrs Hennis, who has now become an Iraqi envoy. Yes, Mrs Hennis, who made mistakes, who had to leave the Chamber, is now Iraqi Envoy. Mr. President, the defense has lost its way. The military of their own are being neglected. Terror groups abroad are equipped with clothing and equipment to lose weight and blow each other off. Lands are left in ruins. Interventions and wars are spoken out under false pretenses. Our defense device is used as a Trump toy. Is Defence still in favour of peace and security, or is it a mission to defend the interests of multinationals and other foreign powers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u180	It's about clear which missions DONK doesn't exist. It is also clear that DENK says: we do think it is important to invest in our military, but we just don't need to invest in the JSF and in submarines. Mr Öztürk then indicated that DENK felt that we should do military missions in China. That was new. Well, that's interesting in itself. My question is: how does DENK view a military mission from the Netherlands to China? What do we need for that? What equipment do we need for that? How many soldiers do we need to do a mission in China as you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u181	Mrs. Belhaj will have to find something to try to weaken my story. I also mentioned Yemen: 14 million Yemenis are starving. I talked about Myanmar, where women are raped, where genocide is committed. We don't send soldiers there. There's no point. There's no money there. I have indeed spoken of China, but I did not say that we should send soldiers there immediately. I've been talking about why we don't do anything about it. Why is that? Because it's about interests. Because it's about money. Because it's about power. I had trouble with the story you kept here about 2030. You're too naive. The world isn't as fair as you're trying to sketch here. The world is currently governed by unfair people. The Netherlands, our ministers and Secretary of State are simply behind that. As a coalition partner, you should stop that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u182	A sense of injustice can sometimes be very personal or depend on the political party you are from. The DENK spokesperson now states that he considers Yemen, Myanmar, China, where people, women, are oppressed, important. I take your sense of injustice seriously. Then I would like to ask you what kind of military commitment you intend to use. If this cabinet decided to invade China, Myanmar and Yemen tomorrow, how do you see it? Because then there must be a serious discussion to ensure that the sense of injustice of DENK could justify military commitment. I wonder how we're gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u183	I think my plea is clear. What measures are we taking towards China when it comes to Uighurs? What interests are we putting aside in order to maintain the constitutional principle of justice? We don't. Interests such as money, oil and power are paramount and justice comes after them. That hurts us. That is why we are trying to draw attention to this once again. That sacred, pathetic story that we're going to Afghanistan to make sure women can go to school there is bullshit. We're going to Afghanistan because there are interests there. We're going to Afghanistan because big countries have big interests there. The time when we could keep that pathetic story that thanks to our kids could go to school there, it's been. People don't fall for that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u184	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u185	Finally, Mr President. The Netherlands should set an example. There are international courts here in The Hague. We are the land of peace and security, but we are not setting an example at the moment. We're chasing injustice. The Netherlands is internationally known for its excellent diplomacy and international collaborations. Resources such as economic pressure, divide-and-rule politics and dirty political games do not fit in with that. Let's not go back to a time of colonial oppression.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u186	Mr Öztürk has just put his perspective very clearly, but I would like to go back to the beginning of his speech. In this he states that it is important to put the staff first. That is also important to do, but I was wondering how Mr Öztürk would do that when he wanted to cut back 1.7 billion on defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u187	It's very simple. I just said that with one submarine, you're less than a billion miles away. If you do two less, it's already done. If you cut down on a few JSF planes, you're already done. The problem is that we are more international than we are. We are not thinking of our people, but of the equipment we need to use to keep those big countries on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u188	To be able to support the staff, money is needed. Of course, we share the objective of supporting staff. Only Mr Öztürk wants to save 1.7 billion a year. This cabinet invests 1.5 billion a year. So that is a difference of 3.2 billion a year. If we do that over a period of four years, this cabinet period, the difference between DENK and the cabinet is 12.8 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u189	You're good at math.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u190	The bill for the purchase of submarines will be paid in 15 years and will amount to 4 billion. But we are already spending 12.8 billion more in the coming years. Is it just me or is Mr Öztürk's calculation not correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u191	Look, you need to see several measures. It is not just the submarine, but it is also the JSF, the maintenance costs of the submarines, the military who have to go with the submarines and all those kites, those former colleagues of our VVD colleague. In addition, there are the missions, those silly missions we do to please the big countries. If you add all of this together and invest in our own military, so less missions, but more soldiers in the Netherlands and less costs, then you'll come to a good account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u192	Mr. Chairman. I haven't had two and a half questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u193	I'll give it to you now. Then we came to the end of this term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u194	I thought you said you couldn't do that anymore. I thought you said you couldn't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u195	Mrs. Bruins Slot did indeed...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u196	I haven't had two and a half questions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u197	I thought you weren't allowed to do this anymore after the suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u198	I didn't... I didn't... I didn't... I Mrs. Bruins Slot hasn't had half an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u199	Look, this is exactly the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u200	Mr Öztürk, you will have half a question from Mrs Bruins Slot. Then we'll be at the end of the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u201	Well, then I'll give you the right answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u202	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u203	Everyone builds up their own argument. We actually bought those JSFs except three, so we still have EUR 270 million to spend. I still don't get the 12.8 billion. So what else will Mr Öztürk do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u204	Mr. Chairman. Well, here's the thing. If I want to ask two and a half questions, I can't get that space. As soon as I feel a Member of Parliament, the President intervenes. At the moment I am standing here, all kinds of MPs are given the necessary minutes to ask a question. This is exactly...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u205	Mr. Öztürk, I'm going to say something about that. This is total bullshit. I have been very generous in allowing interruptions and have distributed them fairly, and perhaps everyone else has been given a third instance in an interruption. So this is a little calimero behavior. I'm not going along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u206	No, no, this isn't calimero behavior. This is fact-finding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u207	Shall we just answer this term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u208	This is a statement of fact. My answer is very clear. There are several options to be able to cut back on defence: do not join those big countries, with those big investments that large countries are asking us to do; do not do. It's a good way to serve our staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u209	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u210	I see Mr Bosman. He has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u211	No. I'm gonna say no to everybody right now, because I'm just in the mood to suspend and go to lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-3.u212	I'm suspending the meeting until 1:40 p.m. Then we will continue with the arrangement of work.
