ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-2.u1	I give the floor to Mr de Graaf as the first questioner on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Oussama A. and Reda Nidalha. I have warned the cabinet before about these two................................................................................................................................................. Turkey will soon release these two because they are awaiting their appeal there. That appeal is because the two were convicted in Turkey for their membership of a terrorist organisation, Islamic State. The two were not there with noble intentions if even the Turkish judge already condemns you for such a serious fact; they know the culture of course. Why is the State Department cooperating in providing a passport to these scumbags? Why doesn't the minister or this cabinet refuse to do so? Why doesn't this cabinet keep these terrorists outside the Dutch border? So, we say, do not give a passport, but take Dutch nationality! The Minister can do that, because it's happened four times before. I'd like some clarity on this. My next question. Is the Minister further aware that by contributing to the return of these Muslim terrorists, this cabinet will be responsible for everything these two Muslims can do in the Netherlands in the future? For let me make it clear, for many Dutch and always before the PVV, it is established that this cabinet is co-prepared or committed by Oussama A. and Reda Nidalha for every drop of blood that will be spilled for this purpose. Again, is the Minister aware of this and what is her response? Mr. Chairman. We have always said that travellers to the area of Islamic State are never allowed to enter the Netherlands again. Never again in the Netherlands. Once you're out, it means you're out forever. Some have literally followed this up by looking up their 72 virgins, but there are still a lot alive that can go back to the Netherlands. But no one in the Chamber has ever supported us in trying to keep the Netherlands safe by not allowing extravagants to return. So we say: denaturalize, so also take away passports and close borders is the only workable option. The Minister now stands for this point at the moment when the PVV gets her right. Soon someone will be able to stay in remand a little longer if the First Chamber has dealt with it, but these two have already been convicted, so they can't be tried here. After serving their sentence they walk freely here in the Netherlands, and at most have to show up in a deradicalisation program. We recently saw in Amsterdam what a huge success that is. Finally. At the end of the story they are just free here in the Netherlands, here in the Netherlands of the completely naive directors who will not put their thumbs in the way to continue their miserable work. Does the Minister see that the inevitable is now very close and that by providing passports she is cooperating at the final end of the fairy tale that the Netherlands is a safe country to live in? It cannot be emphasised enough: if these terrorists ever strike on Dutch soil, everyone in this cabinet and this minister has liters of blood on their hands. That is why the PVV wants to hear the final question that these two terrorists are denaturalized, that they are not issued with a passport and that they are refused access to the Netherlands. Because the safety of the Netherlands is one thing before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The questions put by Mr De Graaf relate to a report recently published in the media about the two Dutch travellers convicted in Turkey. The general policy of the Netherlands is to arrest and prosecute extravagants who return, i.e. returners. That is the general principle. The National Parket has the responsibility for prosecuting extravagants, Syrians. Therefore, it is really up to the Public Prosecutor to judge in general, and therefore also in this case to determine whether these persons can be detained if they come to the Netherlands. In general terms, it is simply not possible, of course, to prosecute persons for the same fact. But again, that whole assessment will have to take place first, so I cannot say very much about that at this time. Mr De Graaf specifically asks whether it is true that Foreign Affairs is cooperating. That's how he formulated it. Foreign Affairs shall provide consular assistance. That's what the State Department has to do. Mr De Graaf then asked whether the risks for the Netherlands were sufficiently taken into account. I would like to say to that: of course. For every returnee, we, and in this case police and AIVD, will always have to make an assessment of possible threats. The AIVD and the police will also be very keen on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-2.u5	Mr. De Graaf, you have 40 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-2.u6	There is a lot to be said in that, Mr President. Many answers from the Minister; thank you for that. Yet, the fear of an unsafe Netherlands has not been removed. Because these people have already been convicted for that fact, for membership of a terrorist organization. In the Netherlands, the passport, and hence nationality, can be taken for that fact and conviction. Why isn't these two being taken care of right away? Why isn't it said "stay there"? Then we keep the Netherlands safe, close the borders and make sure that this scum can no longer enter the Netherlands. For once again, this is a final moment, as I said in the first term. At the moment, the fairy tale of safe Holland threatens to be blown up permanently, because at the end of the song, if I have listened to the minister correctly, these two will just come to the Netherlands. Then maybe they'll have a deradicalization program sometime. Maybe they'll get a short sentence and a short sentence for something else, but then they'll just be free on the streets to do and leave where they want to be. The PVV doesn't want that. We just want the Minister's guarantee...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-2.u7	Thank you, Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-2.u8	...that these two Netherlands won't enter. Now she can give that guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-2.u9	I would like to say two things about that. One is that what I have actually said is that the general policy is that extravagants who return will be detained. That is the general principle. In any case, the whole of the Netherlands can assume that an uncontrolled return to the Netherlands cannot be considered. As regards the question of Dutch citizenship, I was just beginning to say that there will also have to be an assessment of the condemnation in Turkey. Only after that can and will the public prosecutor decide what perspective of action there is. The issue of whether or not to withdraw the Dutchmanship is therefore only discussed later, at the time when these kinds of facts have all been assessed. The withdrawal of the Dutch Federation, as Mr De Graaf called it, is possible in a specific number of situations. That could be the case, but that assessment has not yet been made by the prosecution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-2.u10	The Netherlands needs clarity. We're talking ticking time bombs here. I hear a minister say we have to wait for assessments. I'll give you a second chance. Can the Minister clearly state with a yes or no whether she is prepared today to withdraw the nationality of these ticking time bombs, these dangerous terrorists, and never let them into the Netherlands again? Just a yes or a no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-2.u11	What I have just said is that anyone in the Netherlands can assume that an uncontrolled return of extravagants can never be considered. I would like to underline that here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-2.u12	I would like to continue with the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. That has happened five times in the past few years. So there are cases where that is possible. We are dealing here with people who have been convicted in Turkey for a crime that is sufficient to allow them to withdraw that Dutch citizenship. That conviction came back a few years ago. So why hasn't the Dutchmanship moved in yet? What should happen before the prosecution moves for such an assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-2.u13	The tricky thing about answering these questions here and now is that the public prosecutor must now look at exactly what persecution and conviction has taken place in Turkey. That's the first thing that needs to happen. The fact that the Public Prosecutor is not yet able to assess the possibilities they have in the Netherlands means that the question of whether the Dutch can be withdrawn can only be raised afterwards. That is why I do not think it is right for me to make a ruling on this here and now. That is, after all, a further step in the responsibility of the public prosecutor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-2.u14	Apart from the fact that this is also our preference, there is another possibility I would like to ask the Minister about. Perhaps it can indicate this in a letter, because the debate will undoubtedly follow. Can we see how we could take over the prosecution? At the moment, there has only been a conviction at first instance. There's another prosecution going on on appeal. Could the Netherlands take over this persecution as such, so that perhaps there can be a punishment more appropriate to the seriousness of the facts as we judge them? Can that be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-2.u15	I also said that the D.A. needs to be able to assess it first. The DA hasn't been able to do that yet. It does not yet have the information to come from Turkey about the persecution and conviction there. That has to be done first. Mrs Van Toorenburg's question could then be very relevant. It could be something the D.A. could assess at that time. But I can't say right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-2.u16	Thank you. Mr Markuszower for a second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-2.u17	Do I understand that this Minister puts the procedures above the interests and security of the Dutch? After all, we must first wait for the Turkish procedures and assessments. Why doesn't this minister keep these ticking time bombs under control? And can the Minister elaborate more on what has been checked? We have already seen a lot of terrorists, not only in the Netherlands, for example, at that Jewish restaurant, which was also a controlled terrorist who was later confused called "too" but also in the countries around us. We see very often that the services so-called controlled control that terrorist, but that eventually there will be an attack. Procedures over people's safety: it is a disgrace. I ask the Minister to act and not to follow the procedures so closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-2.u18	I believe that careful monitoring of procedures is part of ensuring the same security that several Members of Parliament are talking about today. Of course, that is the most important thing: ensuring the safety of Dutch people. That is why I would like to emphasise that there can be no uncontrolled return. I say that very emphatically here. This means that in the assessment and procedures I have just outlined, an important part is that the threat is also assessed. You may assume that this will be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-2.u19	Thank you.
