ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on the Foreign Affairs budget, Section 35000-V. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister. Today we are discussing the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u2	I give the floor to Mr De Roon as the first speaker on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will discuss a number of points. Every time I move on to another point, I'll just mark that so everyone knows where we stand. The first point I would like to raise is the value of nationalism. The reason for this is, of course, President Macron's attack on that concept, which he called "treason of the homeland" and "the opposite of patriotism." My point is that nationalism is a value like other values and secondly that nationalism also has a value, a meaning, for people. Nationalism is therefore a dual value. Macron showed in the middle what he means by "nationalism." He only posed it as "malicious" and "the opposite of multiculturalism." I must say that I find that offensive and also unwise. Macron did this because he wanted to turn off President Trump, who confessed to nationalism; not only against Trump but also against America and against Russia. Macron did that by saying that we need a European army to defend ourselves against Russia and the United States. On the eve of World War I... I must say that, on the eve of World War I, Macron seemed to be a good idea to declare America an enemy of Europe against which, according to Macron, we must defend ourselves with a European army. So it makes sense for President Trump to have seen that as a serious insult. It was not only offensive; it was also poorly timed and harmful. It is harmful because it can make Americans doubt about European involvement in NATO. I am not just saying that; that is also what the Secretary-General of NATO, Stoltenberg, says. Meanwhile, President Erdogan walked as a victor by paradeing the streets of Paris, making the notorious sign of the Muslim Brotherhood. Macron didn't criticize that. This miserable statement by Macron, which represents a plea for Europe's strategic autonomy, suggests that Europe can act independently and only in large strategic matters. I ask the Minister whether he agrees with me that Europe is not capable of doing so at all. I also ask the Minister to say that America is not our enemy and that we certainly do not need a European army to defend ourselves against the Americans. Does the Minister confirm that America is our only true and most important ally? I see Mr Van Ojik has a question to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u4	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u5	Almost. Shall I finish it first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u6	Yeah, I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u7	Good. The question is, of course, why Macron did all this. I think he did this because he wants to profile himself for European leadership. The United Kingdom is leaving the European Union and Mrs Merkel is already heading for the exit. So it was a great opportunity for Macron to sort out. The good news is, of course, that Macron's popularity has reached a low point in France and that Mrs Le Pen's party in the polls is larger than Macron's. So much for the first point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u8	That is an interesting start to Mr De Roon's speech. I didn't think I'd say those words again in this Chamber, but that's what's happened now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u9	I never despair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u10	I have also listened with great interest to the speech made by the French President and I have also withheld his explanation. On the contrary, he has explained very well what his vision is the difference between nationalism and patriotism by saying that patriotism is a concept that includes people and that nationalism is a concept that excludes people. That's why he chose one and the other. I wonder if Mr De Roon, with that explanation, which he apparently had not received, is looking at that speech in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u11	"Nationalism" is essentially a relatively young term in history that was fabricated by the philosopher Shepherd. He has defined nationality as a group of people who are connected by common language and history. Nationalism is then the love for the group you're part of. Of course, that has to do with the basic human desire to be part of a community. You love that community, that nation, because that nation protects you and takes care of you. And that is why I at least say: nationalism is a value for people and nationalism is of value. That nationalism as such is not evil. The human need to be part of a nation and to want to be recognized as such is not evil either. But if that need is played down by a multicultural elite, ridiculed and represented as evil, then, of course, resentment, indignation and resentment arise. And that could even lead to hatred. It can also go wrong if the population feels hurt, offended and damaged, especially if those injuries are caused by economic, political and cultural factors which make one feel marginalised and disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u12	Then I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u13	Of course, we shouldn't go that way. That is why I say that nationalism is of value. Mr. Macron defines it in his own way. I'll do it my way. I'm just basing myself on the person who invented the term "nationalism" and I'm holding on to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u14	Let us keep the French President's definition for a moment, because that is what Mr De Roon responded to. Macron says patriotism is inclusive and nationalism is exclusive. That excludes certain sections of the population. That will seem familiar to Mr De Roon. Does he still believe that this concept of 'nationalism' is above criticism?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u15	Nationalism means that you love your own nation and that the interests of your own nation, who stands up for you, who protects you and takes care of you, so stand up first. That makes perfect sense. That's what you're assuming. That doesn't mean that you're either wiping others off the table or off the map or that you don't want to take their interests into account, but when it comes to it, and that's exactly what Trump is doing now: America first is ultimately our own best interests for us. Trump, the Netherlands, is the same for all other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u16	Macron said something else. He said patriotism is patriotism. Does Mr De Roon share that definition?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u17	Patriottism is a movement that originated in France, indeed out of love for France. So in that sense, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u18	Does Mr De Roon therefore share the contrast with nationalism that Macron makes, namely that patriotism indeed stands for love for a country that strives for peace and which not only pursues the single naked self-interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u19	Nationalism is also in the interests of one's own country and therefore, by definition, also seeks peace unless war is forced upon us. As a nationalist, you don't necessarily strive for war. And that is a suggestion that Macron is awakening, and that is wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u20	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u21	May I conclude, then, that Mr De Roon would rather call himself a nationalist than a patriot?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u22	I don't make a choice between these terms. If Mrs Ploumen attaches importance to this, she should do so herself. For me, it is important that nationalism is a value, a value that is important to the people, and also to me, and also to our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u23	First of all, I should like to start by taking one thing out of Mr De Roon's speech. He said Macron had advocated a European army against the United States. That's just not true. Nor should Mr De Roon say that. That's also debilitating. It also evokes a little confusion. My colleagues have already said something about nationalism. I think that Mrs Ploumen has just asked the key question: will Mr De Roon call himself a nationalist? Is his party a nationalist party?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u24	I think I can answer that last question with yes. Personally, I do so out of total conviction. As far as Macron's statements on the creation of a European army are concerned, I am sticking to what I have said about this. Macron has said that this European army must be built so that we can protect ourselves from Russia, and also from the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u25	Mr De Roon can stick to that as on the edge of a cliff, but that does not make it true yet. I would really recommend that Mr De Roon take a look back at Mr Macron's very literal text. But that is not at the heart of what we are talking about here. Mr De Roon calls himself a nationalist and calls the PVV a nationalist party. Macron and Merkel stood side by side, just to show what enormous damage unbridled nationalism can bring. They stood there to show that the First World War came from fervent nationalism. I would therefore like to ask Mr De Roon how he sees it. Does he also recognise that the First World War came from nationalism? Does he see the dark side of that phenomenon? And does he also see that this leads to blindness, which means that it is only about one's own interest, without an eye for another? That is something that I think Mr De Roon should recognize from himself and from his own party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u26	I strongly disagree with Mr Sjoerdsma on this point. World War I was not a result of nationalism. The First World War resulted in elitist groups putting their own interests first, which then tried to dress in a nationalist jacket and thus stirred up the population. They were elitist groups, governments, countries that put their own interests first, the interests of their elite, and thus dragging the whole world into war. It wasn't a nationalist war. In the end, everyone wants to fight for their own country. People have been stirred up to do so, whereas in the First World War, it was not really about the interests of countries, but about the interests of elites.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u27	Finally, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u28	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Apart from the incorrect quotes I had just noted, there was also a reflection of the history that can only make you sad, and which we saw before with a colleague of Mr De Roon from another party, of which I think... Look, let me put it this way. Patriotism, feeling proud of your own country, of the values that that country stands for, of the interests of our country, that is what we all share here. But as far as we are concerned, I am sure that I am speaking for all the parties here, except yours and perhaps Mr Baudet's, which is about our interests for the sake of the interests of another, for the sake of cooperation; not just to improve their own interests, but to make others better. I would like to appeal to Mr De Roon: if he calls himself a nationalist party, turn around!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u29	There will be no question of turning back. I am always happy to see Mr Sjoerdsma walking away from the microphone saddened here. But at least we will not change this position. The point is that we love the Netherlands, and so we believe that the defence of the Dutch interest should be paramount when it comes to foreign policy. That doesn't mean that you don't have an eye for other things in the world, or that sometimes you don't have to take that into account. Of course you have to, especially if that is in Dutch interest. Mr. Chairman. I would like to move on to the following point: the migration pact, the Marrakesh agreement, already referred to by some as the 'capitulation treaty'. For the record, that pact is not about people fleeing persecution; it is about people wanting to settle in another country. It's a Global Compact, which means it's global, and it's a treaty. The signatories commit themselves, I read, to no less than 177 points of interest. Our government says it's not legally binding. I say to that: it may not be binding between the States that sign it, but it does have a third-party effect, and in particular in favour of the illegal migrant. Article 12 of the Convention states that the aim is to reduce risks and vulnerabilities faced by migrants by respecting, protecting and filling in their human rights. The illegal migrant says: the host country must provide me with bed, roof and bread; I want care and protection. The host country will also have to provide health care for illegal immigrants. So suddenly there is a legal claim on the table. If the host country does not comply, the illegal migrant will be able to claim compensation. This is what we call the "we are here" clause: we are here, so we have rights. The pact doesn't do anything about it. There is nothing the Pact can do about that either. The Pact can also do nothing against illegal immigrants who hide their nationality and burn their passports. But we will soon have to respect their rights, so provide them with bed, roof, bread and health care. There will be more rights for the illegal if he has no documents and a child begotten. The Pact provides for the allocation of nationality to children born in another State........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ This means that, under the terms of this pact, the children of that illegal migrant will be able to claim the Dutch passport. What does that mean for the sire, or the sire, of that child? They can then rely on the right to family life. That child has received a Dutch passport and is therefore allowed to stay in the Netherlands. The right to family life of the illegal agent will mean that he or she may remain in the Netherlands, however illegal he or she may be. In the legislative consultation we have held in recent days, the Minister has already recognised that migration as such is not a human right. I am grateful to the Minister for that. But does the Minister now recognise in this debate that, on the basis of the Pact and the human rights rules, all kinds of rights can be created and invoked by migrants, and also by illegal migrants? The PVV doesn't want any of that. The migratory risk has always been with the migrant in the course of history. This pact is a serious burden on the population of the host country for the consequences of illegal migration. So the question is: what benefit does the Netherlands have in this migration pact? The Prime Minister said in the media that the Pact regulates the obligation for countries to take back nationals who are illegally present in another country. First of all, I wonder how this obligation can exist, because according to the same Prime Minister and according to the text of the Treaty itself, it is not binding between states. So an obligation to take back own nationals is not created by the Treaty. And why is that? Why would a state that now refuses to take back its own nationals do so on the basis of the Treaty? It's just not enforceable. So much for the migration pact. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to freedom of expression, the freedom that practically built the Party for Freedom. It is a freedom that we, as Members of Parliament, can make the most of, but it is also a freedom that is being put under increasing pressure for many citizens in our country outside the streets. Not only in the Netherlands, but also in the rest of Europe and the United States, freedom of expression is under constant attack. For criticism of multicultural society, criticism of mass immigration, criticism of Islam cannot be expressed in full throughout the free West. This is a development that may in the long term be even more damaging to our open, free society than any climate change. Sometimes this threat to our freedom of expression is small and relatively insignificant, for example by removing a social media account. But the facts are threatening to be undermined if our freedom of expression is gnawed at. The fact that Muhammad is an unadulterated pedo should no longer be said in Austria in 2018. How will that continue for future generations? Is Islam criticism going to be possible at all? Another example: Turkish organisations in our country are currently drawing hard on a Twitter ban for one of the archipelagos in the field of Islam criticism, namely my group leader Geert Wilders. As far as I am concerned, the government is deleting those provisions of the Code of Criminal Law which encourage this. The Netherlands must defend freedom of expression by hand and tooth. The Minister can start this week. Is he willing to call the Turkish ambassador on the mat? After all, it is Diyanet organizations who here in the Netherlands want to restrict the freedom of expression of a politician of the Second Chamber of the States-General. I await the Minister's answer. We shall then see whether human rights policy is indeed the cornerstone of this cabinet's foreign policy. I come to my next point. "Climate," I call it, but I am talking about a very specific climate, namely the climate in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Many expressions and behaviours show that there is a suffocating climate there, that there is a living environment where my group sees that at least there seems to be room for left-wing ideas. Last summer this was expressed in an ultimate way. Left-wing activism bubbled in all intensity when the minister made critical statements about multicultural society. Officials came up against it and crawled into the pen to put their frustrations on paper. The scope was clear: right-wing talk is not tolerated and diversity is the solution. That is a rebellion of officials who, of course, are unacceptable, but yet the Minister kneeled down and succumbed to his officials, who he should be the boss. As a result, the Ministry is now forced to become even more diverse and inclusive. There is even a target: by 2022 10% of employees must have a non-Western background. That is why the question is: is this ambition a policy measure approved by this VVD Minister? As far as PVV is concerned, it is simple: staff in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must be assigned primarily on the basis of quality. Diversity targets are derived from this. I therefore call on the Minister to release the target of non-Western workers. Is he willing to do that? Mr. Chairman. Earlier this year, a report was published about deadly unfortunate officials at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Because of the new flexwork they should fight for a desk. Now, of course, the question is: are there too few offices or are there too many officials? In any case, we know that the number of officials has increased by 165 fte in five years. But not only at the Ministry, but also in the Lower House, I see a relatively large number of foreign officials sitting in the blue seats of the MPs. In recent years, twelve ministry officials have been given unpaid leave to take their seats in the Lower House, and afterward they can seamlessly return to their jobs at Foreign Affairs. So you get a career cycle from diplomats to the Lower House and back, and sometimes again. A remarkable situation has arisen, I think, in which MPs control the policies they have themselves worked on or in which their direct colleagues in the ministry were involved. It may also happen that MPs are freeing up budget where they will be able to get back to work when they get back to the department. All in all, that is an undesirable situation. I'll also explain why I think so. In fact, I believe that it can create the appearance of conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u30	I may not be one of those people who comes from the State Department, but I do wonder what Mr De Roon means here. Because what he's saying sounds quite a serious accusation to our highly esteemed colleagues from, I presume, a lot of different parties. If I hear Mr De Roon correctly, he says: there is a conflict of interest here; there are people here who do things just because of their previous job, so what they say here, the opinion they come out for is not legitimate. And only because of a job they would have had in the past. I hope Mr De Roon does not mean that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u31	Not only am I not saying that, but I didn't say that either. I did not say that, as I say to Mr Koopmans. I will repeat my last sentence for his interruption, just to be clear. I have said that, overall, I think this is an undesirable situation, which can provoke the appearance of conflict of interest. When I get the space, I will continue my argument to explain it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u32	But I would like to come back to this, because I believe that Mr De Roon is making a mockery of this which he does not want to stir up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u33	Mr De Roon will discuss this further. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u34	I find it remarkable that there is also an exception for civil servants on this point. For under civil law, that is to say for ordinary workers in our country, not civil servants, their employer does not have to keep them in service if membership of parliament is accepted by such an employee. But for the official, the government is much more generous. Diplomats are offered unpaid leave as a standard if they want to go to the Lower House and therefore I see legal inequality between contract staff under civil law and civil servants. I think that inequality should be brought to an end. I also believe that it is desirable to avoid this form of conflict of interest, I repeat. So I'm not saying diplomats shouldn't be in the Lower House. Of course they can. Everyone has the right to do so. I'm just saying that the standard right to return to your job must be aligned with the situation that applies to all other workers in the country. They just don't have a claim to it. So I ask the Minister to flatten that inequality by no longer granting special leave to diplomats for the time they are members of the House of Representatives. Is the Minister prepared to do so? So much for this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u35	I am glad that Mr De Roon is making a retreating move, but he is still leaving something standing. He began by saying that it is actually a very difficult way, the words we will find in the Acts, but that there are people here and again, I am not myself, so I feel free to speak about this a little easier....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then he finally makes a retreating move. He says, no, I'm only concerned with the return arrangements. But he has still raised the appearance here from behind that beautiful chair that is so colleagues here, I assume from other parties, doing things they shouldn't be doing and doing it because of the job they had. I would ask Mr De Roon to give us some examples. Who? What's that? Or does Mr. De Roon take that back?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u36	Mr. Chairman. I am not taking it back in the first place and, secondly, I have not said anything about it either. I didn't say that. I'm not accusing anyone here. In fact, my proposal to abolish unpaid leave will not even apply to the rights of Members of Parliament who are already established here. The only thing that matters to me is the appearance of conflict of interest that can arise. And again, every diplomat, every official has the right to sit in the Lower House and do so. Fine, no objection, absolutely good. They may also bring knowledge and insight. But that other side of the coin is equally present. We can never check whether they do so from what they stand for, or whether they do so from the point of view of the exercise of their duties in matters where they are also in their job from where they come from and where they might be interested in going back to later. You just don't want to. So also give them the same rights, but also the same limitation that applies to workers in the civil field.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u37	Finally, Mr Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u38	I note that Mr De Roon cannot give any example, either of individuals or of situations or of cases, in which people would have expressed an opinion here because they would have been a diplomat for Foreign Affairs. And that there is therefore no case he can rely on. And so when he talks about appearances, he calls that appearance himself. That's also wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u39	Mr. Chairman. I really don't see it that way, because I'm not accusing anyone here. I said that at the beginning, I said that during my speech, and I say that again at the end. I'm not accusing anyone here. I didn't want to, and I'm not going to name any names. I will not be provoked by Mr Koopmans, because there is no reason at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u40	I do not think we are discussing collective agreements here, not ministries, not diplomats, nor civilian people. If we want to discuss collective agreements, this is first and foremost between employers and employees. So I suggest that we talk about the Foreign Affairs budget and leave the suspicion of colleagues out there. If we want to say something to colleagues that we do not agree with, or think that someone is entangled with interests, or invoking the appearance of such interests, we should call it man and horse. The one who claims proves it. The collective agreements remain something between employers and employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u41	So I am not suggesting that there has been a conflict of interest. Nor did I say that Members of Parliament who are diplomats act improperly or insincerely. I'm not saying that, so I don't have to prove anything. The only thing I'm suggesting is that there could be a sign of conflict of interest. We in the Chamber just shouldn't want that. So that is also the point of view from which I raise this. The second reason why I am raising this issue is the legal inequality between diplomats, perhaps I should say 'officials in general' and workers in the civil sector. The latter cannot even ask their employer if they can get unpaid leave. It will at least be rejected. It's different for diplomats. They get it almost standard, if they don't get it all by default.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u42	First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members who have said exactly what was needed. Whoever's asking proves it. Mr. De Roon has done all kinds of things, but he hasn't proven anything. But one more interesting question concerns the following. Mr De Roon raised the question about the relationship with the old employer and about return arrangements. He doesn't think that's so neat for diplomats. I do not have a return arrangement myself, but I would like to ask Mr De Roon if he has a return arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u43	When I went to the Lower House in 2006, I informed my employer that I had resigned. That's also granted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u44	Then why is it on the site of the Lower House at the profile of Mr. De Roon that he has a return arrangement with the Public Prosecutor's Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u45	After doing all this, I got a message from the College of Attorney General saying that I would always be welcome if I wanted to return.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u46	Oh, yeah. Just to be clear, you are all blaming people in this Chamber for having a return scheme when they don't have one. So you blame us for a luxury we don't have. And you don't just have that luxury. It is also on the website of the House of Representatives. You haven't done anything about it in 12 years to take it off. It is now 2018 and in 2006 you entered the Chamber. You haven't done anything about it in 12 years. And then you come and tell us what luxury horses we are. The only luxury horse here, that's you. And then you're also a nationalist luxury horse.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u47	Mr Sjoerdsma says it all wrong. I just quit my job in 2006. I didn't ask for a return arrangement. She was offered to me, but I never took advantage of it, because I didn't think it was right either. So you can't blame me on this. You say that there is no diplomat present who is currently a diplomat and who therefore has a return scheme, which has the status of non-wage official. If that's the case, then that's good. Then there's nothing to worry about right now. But it's possible. I ask the Minister to put in place a standard policy to prevent diplomats from entering the Chamber who are entitled to return to their previous jobs. Just let them apply again after they've been MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u48	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u49	Mr. Chairman. The next item is foreign policy decisions in Europe. The aim is to make majority decisions on certain dossiers. This means that in the future the Netherlands will be more often faced with difficult issues. I mean, with the hands tied behind the back. Why is that? Because the European Union is about to decide on foreign policy by qualified majority. This means that the Dutch interest is snowed under, and that is wrong. The Dutch interest must be leading for the Netherlands. The European Commission's proposals are in principle contrary to the Dutch interest. The Netherlands will soon be able to be squeezed into decisions on international sanctions, human rights issues or missions. Our relationships with important players on the world stage can therefore take considerable blows. Why make the Dutch interest subordinate to the importance of a qualified majority of EU Member States? There's a threat of dark scenarios. Alarm One. I read that there is a slight doubt in the cabinet about these proposals, at least as regards decision-making on civilian missions in dangerous areas. But what's that doubt worth? Will the Netherlands then contradict this particular point, or will the whole package now being proposed, simply be blocked by the Netherlands? At least that's what the PVV wants. That's what I'm asking the Minister. I come to support Islamic combat groups in Syria. About a year ago, an Abu Ali from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was allowed to draw up and hand over a wish list. He was undoubtedly anxious to see if his wishes would be met. And indeed, it was rewarded, because he got uniforms and pickup trucks from the Dutch officials. For example, Jabha al-Shamia, a fighting group that has been executing human rights since 2014 and running Sharia courts, was consciously supported by the Dutch, because Abu Ali was one of the main players in that Islamic fighting group Jabha al-Shamia. And what is the disastrous consequence of this policy? An organisation classified as a terrorist by the prosecution was financially supported by the State Department. This happened at the end of 2017, around the previous budget debate. The Dutch support for Muslim extremists in Syria has been resentful. This support illustrates the way in which left-wing ideas and naive visions are turned into failing policies. That's what happened here. Does the Minister agree, I would ask him, that the support for so-called moderate combat groups in Syria has failed due to insufficient supervision? Is the Minister prepared to say that the government will never again enter such risky situations? I come now to various country situations. I'll start with Israel and Gaza. No matter how the debate on the introduction of summer time or winter time ends, you can set the clock on one thing: every year there is a battle in which terrorists from Gaza fire a rocket rain on Israel. That has happened again in the last few days. The rocket rain of recent days has been the most intense since the Gaza war in 2014. More than 450 missiles have already been fired at Israel and it seems that 20,000 are still ready in Gaza. In my opinion, there is a double war crime from the Gaza Strip, because they are fighting and missiles are being fired by them from civilian locations. That's a war crime. The violence is also aimed at arbitrary Israeli civilian targets. There's a good chance they're gonna get hit. And that's what it turned out to be. In any case, it is not specifically aimed at military targets. So here, too, we are dealing with a war crime. I therefore believe that Palestinian violence should be condemned by this cabinet in the strongest possible terms. I haven't seen this happen yet. I may be wrong, but I haven't seen it yet. The question then is why this did not happen. Will the Minister still do that? Then I'll get to Iran. We must never close our eyes to the violent removal of journalists or political opponents. The fact that in some cases the eyes are closed is because there are political interests involved. I find that objectionable. It is striking that Saudi Arabia is publicly tried in connection with the murder of Khashoggi and being cornered, but it seems that when it comes to Iran, that country is being dealt with with with velvet gloves. At any rate, I see a stark contrast in the attitude of Dutch politics and the Dutch government when it comes to Saudi Arabia, or Iran. Looks like there's a preferential treatment for Iran. Take, for example, the two murders of political opponents of the Iranian regime in 2015 and 2017. Those were cold-blooded murders on the street in the Netherlands, in The Hague and Almere, even here near the House of Representatives. The fact that this could happen is the elaboration of a global Iranian terrorist network. Two Iranian diplomats were subsequently expelled by the Netherlands in retaliation, but I ask the Minister why that was not brought out by the government. Why did these two Iranian diplomats get out of the country through some sort of backdoor and out of the sight of the media? When I look at those Russian diplomatic spies, they have been treated by the government to a completely different treatment. What can the Minister, I ask him, tell us about the state of affairs of the investigations into these murders? Has Iran been addressed to these affairs yet? If that didn't happen, why not? As far as the PVV is concerned, the preferential treatment of the Islamic regime in Tehran must end. The liquidation wave itself is bad enough, but also remember the foiled bombing in Paris and the proxy war in Yemen. Iran is still the largest sponsor of terrorism worldwide. This has again been demonstrated by the United States' annual report on terrorism. Then there is the question again: why is this government, this minister, wearing velvet gloves when it comes to Iran? Last September, I asked this minister in writing whether he shares the Americans' conclusion that Iran is the largest sponsor of terrorism. The Minister didn't say that very loudly. A weak answer came in the sense of sharing concerns and something about a critical dialogue. That's why I'm trying again here today. Does the Minister share the United States' conclusion that Iran is the largest state sponsor of terrorism, yes or no? There's only two flavors. I'd like to hear an answer. Then Turkey. This cabinet praises multiculturalism. The EU-Turkey deal and the Iran agreement are praised. Deals that strengthen the Islamic regimes in Ankara and Tehran and yield financial benefits. Turkey is perhaps the biggest profiteer of blind faith in international cooperation. Apart from the Turkey deal, Turkey also benefits from EU accession aid. Huge bags of money are flown annually from Brussels to Ankara. The total amount involved in 2019 is EUR 395 million. This means that next year the Dutch taxpayer will be able to tap 19.4 million euros for the Turks. Free money for Erdogan. The House of Representatives would like to put a stop to this, but can't or won't. Because last year the House of Representatives, this Chamber, voted against a PVV motion to cut the accession aid on EU payments. For example, the money supply to the authoritarian regime in Ankara remains open. Through the policy of the undemocratic European Union and the weak action of this cabinet, which says that human rights policy is a cornerstone of foreign policy, but continues to support that authoritarian leader in Ankara. Finally, I would like to say a few words about Eritrea. We have recently received a letter from the Minister, with an annex. All this has to do with the fact that Eritrea likes to tax its citizens here. I don't want to discuss that whole letter here. We're gonna do that at another time, but I want to tell the Minister the following. I note that in recent weeks and months there has been some kind of relaxation in the Horn of Africa. Relaxation between Ethiopia and Eritrea, which come together and turn out to be able to make agreements again. This could mean that there might also be an opportunity to make an agreement with Eritrea on the collection of this tax among people here in the Netherlands. I ask the Minister whether he sees reason for this and whether he also sees opportunities to probe through Dutch diplomats whether there is room for discussion with Eritrea about ending this tax here in the Netherlands. I thought our ambassador to Addis Ababa was also competent for Eritrea, but I'm not quite sure. In any case, a diplomat would undoubtedly be able to do this. I ask the Minister if he is prepared to consider that and perhaps to implement it. So much for my contribution in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u50	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. I now give the floor to Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Why do we have a foreign policy? The VVD says: for the safety of Dutch. Because the Netherlands must remain the Netherlands. Because of Dutch jobs and to assist Dutch people abroad. And so not to give general reflections and wave a raised finger everywhere, but to do concrete things. As Thorbecke said in 1848: "Not what was spoken, but what was done is the raw material of history." And what should be done? We need to make our country safer, protect our values and our identity, create jobs and help Dutch people abroad. For we are threatened by foreign countries, including aggressiveness and instability in the ring around Europe, by illegal mass migration, by terrorism and by trade wars. Through the erosion of the rule of law by some countries within the EU, through financial recklessness of countries like Italy, through attempts by Turkey and Russia to sow division in the Netherlands. At the same time, we are also positively connected with the world. We owe most of our security to our foreign allies. The European Union is helping us to protect our values, our identity and our interests. And the Dutch economy is so successful because we are an open country with good connections to foreign countries, an internationally oriented population and a great location climate for Dutch and foreign companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u52	Mrs Ploumen was there before you started talking, so I'm very curious. Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u53	Mr. Chairman. I was listening carefully to the argument. As far as the third sentence is concerned, that argument raised questions. On the fourth sentence, I suddenly agreed with the colleague when he talked about Thorbecke. I also very much agree with the award of the Thorbecke Prize yesterday, but that aside. The colleague said: 'The Netherlands must remain in the Netherlands'. What exactly does he mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u54	I think Mrs Ploumen invites me to take a step forward in my speech, where I am going to explain. I'd be happy to give you a little advance. The Netherlands must stand up for its own values, for its own identity, for its own people. So, for example, illegal mass immigration, we need to be able to ward off. But we must also stand up for the openness of the Netherlands as an internationally attractive place for people to live. That sort of thing. So it is on the one hand the uniqueness of the Netherlands and on the other hand the openness of the Netherlands. We both have to keep them, which is why I want the Netherlands to stay. And I think Mrs Ploumen actually agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u55	That is entirely due to what Mr Koopmans has to say. So if I were him, I wouldn't just assume that we agree on this point. Because that's why my second question. Mr Koopmans spoke of 'the values of the Netherlands'. What do he think these values are?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u56	The values of the Netherlands are very many. I will not give a complete list of everything here, but there is, for example, standing up for one's own values and for the human value. I know that Mrs Ploumen has been very committed to this. For freedom of expression, which seems to me to be extremely important, and for human rights. For entrepreneurship. These are all important values. I can go on like this for a long time. It is also the fantastic Dutch culture where we can talk so openly with each other, where we do not have big differences, but simply talk to everyone. It is special to me that I say here to Mrs Ploumen 'Mrs Ploumen', because we have a very open dialogue in this fantastic Dutch culture. We have to protect them. When we see that open dialogue in the Netherlands is affected by people saying 'yes, but you can't talk about it' or 'you can't say that', we have to resist it. If we see that there are people who want to damage Dutch culture, for example with horrible things such as honour vengeance or genital mutilation, then that is horrible and I want to oppose it. Fortunately, I know that Mrs Ploumen is also opposed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u57	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u58	I would like to thank Mr Koopmans, because now we know what his starting point is and we will remind him of it regularly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u59	Proceed, Mr. Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll come back to that with your permission. What does the VVD want? The VVD stands for a pragmatic, realistic foreign policy, as my predecessor Mr Ten Broeke put it. We stand for a foreign policy which is modest but assertive. My colleague Azmani would say: with focus and with courage. We stand for a policy that uses all the relevant means. This means that we must work towards a comprehensive policy in which foreign affairs, EU policy, defence, development cooperation and all the instruments of the state are mutually reinforcing. Modest, but assertive, because the Netherlands is not large, but certainly not small. We're too small to solve all the world's problems here, but we're big enough to occasionally say no. No to decisions that do not serve the Dutch, no to countries that do want our support, but do not want to support us against illegal migration and terrorism. And most importantly: The Netherlands is big enough not only to say no, but also to do things yourself. But then we must also be big enough here to dare to work for the interests of the Dutch and the Netherlands. And our interests are mainly security, identity, our jobs and the Dutch abroad. The VVD wants to promote these interests in a way that really helps the Dutch. So let me deal with these interests one by one here. First of all, safety. Our security is threatened by international terrorism and illegal mass migration. Both are fed, among other things, by the war in Syria. We are also threatened by Russia's aggressive policy, including in Crimea and Eastern Ukraine. We are threatened by China's expansionist politics and espionage, and by the worsening crisis in Venezuela, a great waving neighbour of our Kingdom. In particular, the instability at the edges of Europe calls for additional investments in diplomacy in those areas. That is why we are committed to strengthening the Dutch diplomatic presence at the edges of Europe, particularly along those routes of illegal migration in Africa and the Middle East. And that is exactly what we are doing. There is now a structural EUR 40 million for strengthening and expanding our diplomatic posts, mainly aimed at combating terrorism and illegal migration. And that's good. In addition, our strengthened diplomacy continues to be persistent and committed worldwide in order to bring the perpetrators of that horrible crime against MH17 to justice. We will not rest there. In this noisy time, our security, like our economy, will benefit from a more stable world. That is why we need to invest in NATO and in our links with other like-minded people. And that is exactly what we are doing. The government is increasing spending heavily on Defense. And we are also investing in cooperation against espionage and international terrorism, as we have seen here in The Hague recently. And what else do we want to do? We want to strengthen ties with the United States. In addition, we don't just want something that's obvious as a friendship group here from the Chamber. Why would you be against that? But also more intensive contacts at every level. Similarly, we want to make clear to this American government, which may be different from the others, how much we need each other for security and jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u61	It's Mrs. Ploumen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u62	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I have an enlightening question. I thought I was going to understand Mr Koopmans, but now he's leading me astray. I very much agreed with him when he talked about the values we stand for, and the right of everyone to be who you can be. Now he's talking about this American government. Now the president said about women: grab them by the pussy. I would like to ask Mr Koopmans whether that is also a Dutch value.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u63	I do not know where this statement comes from, because I am very surprised by this question and this statement. Of course, that is a very inappropriate remark from the President of the United States. But I do not see that it is my place to judge it here and certainly not to defend it. Finally, I will not be associated with this at all, so I really wonder why this question is being asked to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u64	Mr Koopmans stressed the importance of an enhanced friendship with the Americans, and then, I think, it would be good to explore what this American government stands for. This is one of President Trump's statements. There are many more. It seems to me that they do not quite match the Dutch values. So I just wanted to know about Mr Koopmans. No more and no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u65	Mr President, I think it is important to respond to this, because the essence of my speech is that we need to be realistic. We must deal with the things that make Dutch people better. How do Dutch people get better from a question about a very inappropriate comment from someone who later became the President of the United States? What does that have to do with anything? Which Dutchman gets a job because of this? Which Dutchman will be safer because of this? None at all. Do I have to discuss the statements of everyone who's in a foreign government somewhere? No. What's it about me? We must keep this American government, even now that it is a completely different government from the governments we know from the past, in the important shared values that we do have, namely security, jobs and a stable world order. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u66	Yes. Then I'm going to see Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u67	I would like to link this friendship with the United States, which Mr Koopmans is advocating, to the actions of the US President, because that is what it is all about: getting out of the climate agreement, getting out of the Iran deal and starting a trade war with Europe. Are those the kind of things you need to talk about? Because we can say, as Mr Koopmans does, that that government is a bit different, but it is good to qualify this kind of thing as very undesirable. Does Mr Koopmans agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u68	I am very pleased that Mr Van Ojik agrees with me that you should continue to talk to the Americans, even if this American government does things we do not agree with at all. We are in favour of maintaining, for example, the Iran deal, which keeps the Netherlands safe. We are against a trade war, because it affects everyone, and it also costs Dutch jobs. I am very glad that Mr Van Ojik agrees with me, because that means that you have to keep talking to the Americans permanently. Because if you say, no, this president has made statements that I think are really bad, so I'm not gonna talk to him anymore, then you can't be any more committed to those interests that we share and not to those values that we share.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u69	I honestly don't believe there's anyone in this room who thinks we shouldn't talk to the Americans anymore. We are talking here about what the cabinet will do in 2019. Is Mr Koopmans in the process of calling on the cabinet to open a dialogue with them on a number of issues where the United States has completely lost its way? Then I say, "Yeah, that's a great idea." But the friendship ties, even if they are a little different, sounds very vague and general. That is why I mentioned three examples: trade war, Iran deal and climate agreement, of which I now ask Mr Koopmans whether he agrees with me that the Dutch Government should preferably engage in a critical discussion with the Americans in a broader context, much more than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u70	It's much better, because this government already does. Mr Van Ojik knows that too. On all these points, this Minister is, but I assume he will ask this Minister shortly, already busy talking to the United States about the Paris Agreement, about the Iran deal and about a trade war. If the government is already talking to that, I think that this minister's commitment is very hard and clear. I do not want to call on the Minister to do it now, because he is already doing it. I would particularly like to encourage him to continue on this right path.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u71	In addition to some distasteful statements by the President of the United States and many other leaders, I would like to zoom in on what Mr Koopmans says. He says, "We have relationships with the United States that we need to maintain." He said that we should continue to deal with the US, because it is better from a Dutch security point of view. Can Mr Koopmans explain to me how decades of support for the policies of the United States, now becoming a permanent war in the Middle East, from Iraq to Afghanistan to Libya, has brought us security and why the VVD continues to follow the United States? That's something that didn't start under Trump, something that's been going on for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u72	For our security, we are very interested in good cooperation with the United States, because the United States, for example through NATO, is contributing to our safety and the Russians are not thinking: the Netherlands is such a small country, we can shake that up a bit. No, we are united with America when America is attacked. After 9/11, we were shoulder to shoulder with the United States to deal with those terrorists. So we also expect to see what happens, and we know that the United States will show solidarity with us if we are attacked at some point. So that's a very important relationship. I understand that Mrs Karabulut wants to run away because she does not want anything to do with the US, but that seems extremely unwise and very bad for the safety and also the jobs of the Netherlands, which I remember Mrs Karabulut likes to stand up for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u73	That the VVD has a very bad policy for the jobs in the Netherlands, we have seen the past Cabinets-Rutte. That is not what this discussion is about. I repeat my question, which has not been answered. In what way would the permanent support of the VVD to the permanent war policy of the United States, led by the United States, in the Middle East, where there has been fighting for seventeen years in Afghanistan, where the war in Iraq has given birth to IS, make us safer when we see that millions of people have had to flee...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u74	And here's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u75	...and the threat of terrorism here has grown and not diminished? Why doesn't the VVD stop supporting this permanent war policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u76	Mrs Karabulut asks a lot of questions at the same time, but I think the key question is: why does the VVD support the fight of the United States against international terrorism? Well, because that is very important, because we have to protect ourselves from terrorism and because we cannot do it alone. So yes, if the United States is going after Osama bin Laden, we think that is a good thing. And if the United States is trying to fight ISIS in Syria, we think that is a good thing. We even want to contribute to that with our F-16s. That does not mean that we are completely uncritical about the foreign policy or other policies of the United States. Definitely not. But it is ultimately about the safety of Dutch people and about security outside the Netherlands, to which we can also make a small contribution within our alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u77	Mrs Karabulut, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u78	Mr Koopmans and the VVD say one thing but do the other. I cannot escape the impression that the VVD continues to follow the US blindly. Because if you are serious about making the Netherlands and the world safer, you cannot run away from the result of 17 years of permanent war and the fact that there is more terrorism, that we have more refugees and that the terrorist threat has grown. You just want to go on for another 17 years, because you don't want to lose the US and NATO with this bankrupt policy. You're putting us in danger. This isn't safety, this is permanent warfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u79	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u80	Madam President, one more point. Mrs Karabulut therefore suggests that at the time of a massive terrorist attack by Al-Qaeda, you should not respond. When those Twin Towers fall down in the United States, where thousands of people die, then, if I understand Mrs Karabulut correctly, you should do nothing. Because if you try to attack the base of those terrorists to stop those terrorists, Mrs Karabulut says you're engaged in an aggressive war that's bankrupt. No, according to the VVD, you're fighting terrorism, standing up for security. But Mrs. Karabulut says, "No, you don't have to do anything." Well, then we disagree again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u81	I will give you the floor in a moment, Mrs Karabulut. This doesn't apply to you, because you're interrupting for the first time that's real news. We have not agreed on the number of interruptions, but try to deal with them a little sparingly, otherwise we will simply restrict it. Mrs. Karabulut, your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u82	Mr Koopmans is twisting my words and lying to circumvent the facts, and that really disappoints me. I didn't tell you not to do anything. Most of the terrorists from the attack on the Twin Towers came from Saudi Arabia. And do you know who is the U.S.'s greatest ally right now? Saudi Arabia, which is also the largest spreader of terror in the region. Think about it, Mr. Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u83	Madam President, first of all, I strongly object to the qualification that I would lie. I don't think that's supposed to be here. But besides that, and I won't bounce it back, my words are, of course, completely misrepresented here. If you are attacked by terrorists and if these terrorists have a base somewhere, where they are coddled by the local government, then surely it is wise to attack that base and therefore operate in that country? That's standing up for safety. If the United States does that to Osama bin Laden, I say, "Are we going to be able to help?"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u84	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u85	In these times of great technological developments, we must resist new threats. Innovative weapons of mass destruction quickly become cheaper and accessible to everyone. But it is no longer just a matter of a few states with atomic bombs, but of the prospect of killer robots and drones in the hands of potentially countless and elusive terrorists and criminals. For the record, a lot of innovation offers us great, fantastic opportunities. We need to make the most of that. But we must also be realistic about the danger associated with an anonymous, invisible and everywhere applicable technique. It is time to break the political correctness surrounding this and assess developments in both their positive and negative values and then to do something concrete with them. At our request, the Minister has already promised to come up with an action plan for a possible pioneering role for the Netherlands on new potential weapons of mass destruction, such as drones and killer robots in large numbers in the wrong hands. I ask the Minister if he has made any progress in his planning. The VVD is thinking of one or more treaties regulating the production and use of and defence against these new potential weapons of mass destruction, as well as joint investments against this danger. Together with Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP, I took the initiative to set up a round table of experts at the beginning of December to assist the Chamber and the Minister in this great challenge. The second point: the core values, identity or 'The Netherlands must remain the Netherlands'. Our identity including our individuality, our openness and our values and our stability are threatened by illegal mass immigration. They are affected by the sowing of internal divisions by, among other things, Russia and Turkey. The erosion of European values and standards by Poland and Hungary threatens the integrity of our Europeanised legal system, in which our police and judges must implement decisions taken by their foreign colleagues. This also requires a foreign policy with focus and courage. The Netherlands must therefore also dare to say 'no'. What does the VVD want in concrete terms? We want the Netherlands to retain the means to make own considerations and, where necessary, to send others. This means, for example, that we are committed both nationally and in the EU to obliging countries that receive money or other resources from the Netherlands or the EU to take back rejected asylum seekers and to participate in the fight against terrorism. Security cooperation. What do we do now? The Minister is committed to strengthening the coastguard of the countries of North Africa, in particular in Libya, and to strengthening the European Border Guard Frontex. Partly thanks to the commitment of the VVD, the EU's migration budget is now increasing by 50% and the border management fund is quadrupling to EUR 9.3 billion. The VVD wants this to be a key element of EU policy. This is not only very important for combating illegal migration; these numbers are huge. It is also extremely important for the migrants themselves. In 2016, at least 6,300 people drowned. In 2017, there were 3,100. In the first six months of this year there were another 1,000. Is that progress? No, it's horrible, still. It's 1% or even more of the superiors. It is clear, therefore, that we must prevent people from taking any chances at all. What else does the VVD want? We want to have an impact on the constitutional test that will allow EU Member States such as Poland or Hungary, which are now undermining the rule of law, to be cut back on EU subsidies. Because we in the Netherlands are supposed to recognise the official documents, judgments and arrest warrants of these countries, while they are becoming less and less familiar, we must not allow it to be automatic if it continues to be so. We also want to abolish Dutch human rights aid in rich countries with a well-functioning rule of law. The motion I tabled recently together with Mr Van Helvert of the CDA was fortunately adopted yesterday. That is a very small bit of good news for human rights, because we cannot do everything everywhere, so we need to have a focus. We need to focus on the most serious violations, where we can really do something. Mr. Chairman. I come to my third point: our jobs. Our jobs are threatened by the Brexit and by the aggressive economic policies of both China and the United States. So if we have a difference of opinion, we need to be able to talk about this, and I am also referring to Mr Van Ojik. The Netherlands benefits greatly from being a hub in the global economy, but that also makes us vulnerable. So we must turn against protectionism and trade wars. We must also dare to stand up realistically for our own central position, and therefore also for the maintenance of our essential economic infrastructure. In addition, we must support entrepreneurs in expansion abroad and keep the Netherlands attractive as a location. So what are we doing in concrete terms? We strengthen economic diplomacy, including by focusing on trade and free transit and promoting the Netherlands as a location in our postal network, among Dutch diplomats abroad. The cabinet, and therefore also the VVD, is working on an integrated China strategy. We need to invest in the opportunities that China offers us and in our relationship, but also in self-protection. This is not a time for naivety, but for a friendly relationship linked to hard realism. In addition, we particularly support SMEs in dealing with the Brexit. We do so both through the Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry and the National Service for Entrepreneurship Netherlands. I would just like to mention the website "www.brexitsteam.nl." To all the entrepreneurs who are watching and wondering how the Brexit is going, even after yesterday's news, I say: go there. It is very good that the Ministry and the partners are working hard for these people and for this trade and therefore also for Dutch jobs. It is also very good that consular support is now being extended in the United Kingdom as well. What else does the VVD want? We want to develop both European and national possibilities to keep the vital economic structure in trust where necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u86	I also hear the VVD talking about China. I am very pleased that Mr Koopmans is bringing China in because that is very important. He said we should invest in a friendly bond, but also in self-protection. In this context, I would also like to ask Mr Koopmans to what extent we can combine a friendly relationship and do business with China as best we can, with attention being asked for and asking for action on, for example, the situation of the Uighurs in China. There are 1 million Uighurs in a penal camp and there are 2 million Uighurs in a reeducation camp, just because they want to build a new highway and train connection there and because according to the Chinese government those people are in the way. Then there is the espionage by the Chinese government that sees Uighurs in the Netherlands. They just get a call, and they're told, if you don't give me information, your dad's gonna go to a detention camp. How can we combine that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u87	I am glad Mr Van Helvert says that. On the one hand, we must have a good relationship with China. China is an increasingly important country and it will not go away. In fact, it's getting more and more here. So we just need to have good links with that. But on the other hand, we have to be realistic. I just mentioned two points. We must indeed beware of infiltration. Mr Van Helvert cites an example of this. I'll just mention the corporate espionage. We must beware of this, and we must act against it. We must also be realistic about human rights violations taking place in China. Fortunately, we have a separate dialogue on this. You should be able to do all these things, but I think Mr Van Helvert agrees with me that you can only get a good ear from the Chinese if they come to you at all to have a conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u88	I welcome this answer, because I think it is very important that when we do business with China, which I certainly believe to be important, we always send the Minister to denounce human rights violations. I'm glad to hear that the VVD agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u89	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u90	I think we are largely or totally in agreement. We must always be able to talk about human rights. You just have to choose your moment, because you want to be effective. You don't want anyone, for example behind this beautiful chair, to hold their finger in the air and say: well, China, for the last time. That's very nice and the cameras will record you, but the effect is zero. If you really want to do something, you need to see how it's best done in diplomatic traffic. Sometimes you have to make a difference. Then you shouldn't yell constantly in front of the camera "fuck you, last time!" But you have to choose the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u91	Does Mr Koopmans really know what pressure China is sensitive to in terms of human rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u92	I am not an expert on this, but I could imagine that China is most interested in trade and China's international position in the world. But you also have to be realistic about that in foreign policy. You can't always say, "I'll give you a little bit of this and you a little bit of that." Then you won't get there. You must have a broader policy and you must therefore also be able to separate and deploy those dialogues on human rights, trade and diplomatic and political relations in a broad sense where they are most effective. Mr Van Ojik has a lot of experience with that, so I am also looking at him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u93	That could indeed be an interesting dialogue. I am actually asking this question because I have been hearing the same thing from the VVD for years, namely that we should not do the lifted finger. I always feel attracted, because sometimes I'm off the raised finger. Then I think: how does the VVD always know so precisely that it does not work and that what it always does, namely in the context of trade very carefully ticking off the point of human rights at the end of the conversation, is effective? I'm always so curious how the VVD knows those things that I'm never quite sure of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u94	We have indeed often seen Mr Van Ojik with his lifted finger. We've seen that doesn't work. Unless Mr Van Ojik wishes to draw my attention here to the successes he has achieved with his lifted finger, I do not think that has worked. So let's try something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u95	I know that Dutch human rights diplomacy towards China has so far been very little successful. Mr Koopmans does not have to tell me that. But he's the one who says, at least we shouldn't do this and this and this and this. Then I ask him what kind of magical remedy he has so that we can make China sensitive to it, as Mr Van Helvert rightly said, so that we can influence the fact that 1 million Uighurs are being put into re-education camps without us being able to do much about it as an international community. That is, of course, the real problem. Taking each other's measure over raised fingers does not bring us any further and makes the Chinese no longer human rights-minded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u96	Two points on this. The first is the starting point. Mr Van Ojik asks what magic we do have to move China to do something. Perhaps the honest answer is that there is no magic cure at all. We are the Netherlands, an important country in Europe, and we have something to say in the world, but we do not have to think that, by doing something in the Netherlands, we are suddenly changing the Chinese policy towards, for example, the Uighurs, which, of course, is very worrying? Surely it cannot be that somewhere hidden there is a magic potion that, if we use it, will make China behave. No. That is the first point. It's just a difference from how you see the world. That's what I'm trying to be realistic about. The second point...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u97	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u98	...is what you can really do. Well, you can stay in conversation. So you have to work together and bet on trade and good relationships. Then you can sell a critical note to people who often talk to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u99	I share the view that you shouldn't just throw your fingers up, because then the lifted finger also loses its value. You have to choose your moments. That is what I heard Mr Koopmans say. It does change, especially since Mr Koopmans mentioned the importance of the Netherlands when it crosses our borders, so that it becomes a problem in our own country. At the time when there really is espionage in the Netherlands, you mentioned the example of companies and I mentioned that of individuals because they want intelligence about what is happening here against China, we should not use the lifted finger, but we really should take action. If another entity is active in our country or on our territory, we must act. I assume that Mr Koopmans agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u100	Of course. The Netherlands also performed this way when the Russians were infiltrating and spying here. Mr De Roon just mentioned the situation of Eritreans who were put under pressure by their own embassy. If Chinese in the Netherlands, the Dutch, are under pressure from their government, I am counting on the Minister to make that a matter too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u101	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u102	I think I was Dutch abroad on my last point, the fourth point. The VVD is committed to Dutch people abroad. That is why we are in favour of measures to promote and further facilitate voting abroad, such as the recently announced test of ballot boxes in five embassies. I would ask the Minister if that could be extended further. When could we do that? What else does the VVD want? The draft budget increases the cost of applying for a passport abroad from €130 to €158. Together with Mr Sjoerdsma of D66 I would like to reverse this. I ask the Minister if he sees any possibilities for this. Furthermore, the VVD wants to use consular services as flexible as possible and calls for experiments to be extended with the application of state documents to new external service providers and to the use of mobile fingerprint machines, so that the service can simply go to the people. This is especially useful for people who live very far away from the Dutch embassy. I am thinking, for example, of the United States, Australia and such big countries. I would also like to ask the Minister whether it is possible for the Dutch outside the EU to have access to Dutch culture through the broadcasts of the NPO. Now it's still impossible to view it because of geoblocking. I understand that this also has to do with the rights to programmes, but I am in any case asking about home soil programmes, which Dutch people would also like to be able to follow abroad, or can be investigated if this is possible. Mr. Chairman. A very important issue with regard to Dutch people abroad is the fight against forced marriages of Dutch people abroad, often in countries of ethnic origin. My predecessor, Mr Ten Broeke, set up the Forced Marriage Unit at the Ministry. We are not concerned with institutions; we are concerned with results. That is essential against abandonment and forced marriages and against genital mutilation and honour vengeance against Dutch girls who are abroad. The Ministry, the embassies and also the consulates have a major role to play in this, but the work goes beyond ordinary consular support. For example, can a diplomatic post be used as a temporary safe house for a girl or a woman who wants to hide? The VVD wants to continue and intensify this work. I'm asking the Minister how he's doing this. Does he build on the productive collaboration with Femmes for Freedom? The VVD considers protecting our own citizens, especially the most vulnerable among them, essential. Finally, Mr President. If we have such a good and such a strong foreign policy, then it is also important that the people in the ministry have a good place of work to do this and that they, armed with the fine plans of the minister, should not always be looking for an agency to turn these plans into action, as is the case today, I hear. I therefore ask the Minister to stand up for this. Mr. Chairman. The VVD wants a foreign policy that gives Dutch people security, that keeps the Netherlands Netherlands, that brings Dutch jobs and that helps Dutch people abroad. In that light, I ask the Minister to continue his work. Then we'll be happy to join him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u103	A brief question, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u104	Mr Koopmans praised Femmes for Freedom. I agree with that. They are committed, among other things, to rehabilitation operations for women and girls who are circumcised here in the Netherlands. I have tabled a motion on this too. Would Mr Koopmans be prepared to support that motion? Because she didn't get any support from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u105	I would like to confess that this motion is not known to me in detail. However, if my colleague spokesperson has given an opinion on this matter, I am of course happy to endorse it. Furthermore, I will pass on this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u106	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u107	Mr Koopmans is in favour of a holistic, comprehensive and comprehensive policy, and he will be in favour of this. It seems to me that it is worth giving him the motion himself so that he can read it himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u108	At this point, anyway. I find this very easy: the spokesperson of the VVD states in foreign policy that he considers this very important, but when such a motion was tabled to the budget for health, Mr Koopmans was also sitting in the Chamber benches at the time he held his hand down. So I wonder why he thinks it is important in the context of foreign policy, but not in the context of concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u109	This question, I think, comes from the deep pits. In this house, votes are held every week. Yesterday I thought it was an hour and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u110	They lasted 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u111	Well, we have these sessions regularly. Then there are a lot of motions. Mr Kuzu is making a significant contribution to this. And now he's trying to take my best shot because I don't have every motion on the stand? That sounds pretty crazy to me. Mr. Kuzu, foreign policy is extremely important. Genital mutilation is a horrible crime. Everything we can fight in this respect must be combated, but let us not play games here about procedures and motions and things like that. No, Mr. Kuzu, let's take things seriously. I expect you to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u112	No! I expect every Member of Parliament to look into the motions on which we are going to vote. At least I expect them to read those motions. During the discussion of the Foreign Affairs budget, you are making a huge number of genital mutilation. I fully agree with that argument, because that was why DENK voted in favour of Mrs Ploumen's and Mrs Ellemeet's motion. I would like to ask Mr Koopmans why the VVD Group was against the motion tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Ellemeet at the time of the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u113	If Mr Kuzu considers this question to be so important, can I ask him why he is asking me this question and, therefore, obviously not to the spokesperson who is talking about it and with whom, I assume, he has been in a fine debate? Why does he ask me that question and why didn't he ask it then? If he really thinks this is an important subject and wants to get more out of it than just a political game, then he must, of course, ask that question when that question arises. I am very sorry that Mr Kuzu is trying to play a game here, while the real issue of genital mutilation; it is horrible that he disappears here in a drawer. Mr. Kuzu,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u114	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u115	At the moment when a VVD member here in the Chamber has no answer to the question, they are suddenly political games. This is a very serious subject: genital mutilation. Mr Koopmans is right to draw attention to this in the context of the Foreign Affairs budget. But you have to take action, because that was also part of the contribution of the VVD during that budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u116	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u117	I wonder: you are here to make a point of this, but you keep your hands down when the vote is on and you can actually do something about it. Such hypocrisy. Shame!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u118	The shame is that Mr Kuzu is trying to politicise something that is extremely important. He also knows that motions are filled with all the subtleties and things you can be against when you have different thoughts about the content. Mr Kuzu is now trying to have a debate here that he should have had in the health budget. That's what he's trying to do here with me over the victim's back. Mr. Kuzu,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u119	This has been repeated a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u120	Over the back of the victims?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u121	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u122	I'm not gonna let you say that about me. I'm not gonna let you say that about me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u123	Then that's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u124	It is the VVD who is calling for attention to be given to this subject during this budget debate, behind that chair. And my question is, why do you keep your hands down if you think this is so important? These aren't political games. This is a serious, serious matter. It's about genital mutilation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u125	If Mr Kuzu thinks that is a serious matter, which would be very good, then he should have asked that question in the debate that was about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u126	Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u127	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I was just thinking about all the words about motions. I think that motions are a very important instrument of the Chamber, whether you agree with them or not, and that we should respect and support each other. Having said that, my question is a political one. You spoke praisefully of Femmes for Freedom. There is also the foundation Karama. They fight for women's rights, for Dutch women and for women from other countries, from conflict zones. They're just fighting for women's rights, universally. What exactly does Mr Koopmans ask the Minister? I also think this is an extremely important point, so what is your political question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u128	I would like to go back to the question and then help Mrs Karabulut. The question was as follows: "We are not concerned with the institutions, we are concerned with the result; that is essential. Against abandonment, forced marriages, genital mutilation and honor vengeance. In this, the Ministry and the embassies and consulates have a major role to play. But the work goes beyond ordinary consular support. For example, can a diplomatic post temporarily serve as a safe house? The VVD wants to continue and intensify this work. I'm asking the Minister how he's doing this. Does he build on the productive collaboration with Femmes for Freedom? The VVD considers protecting our own citizens, especially the most vulnerable among them, essential." I asked that question, and I'm glad I could ask it again now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u129	So in summary, Mr Koopmans is in favour of continuing, and actually strengthening, support for women's organisations that are committed to this kind of rights. Can I therefore ask Mr Koopmans whether we are going to table a joint proposal to this effect, if the Minister does not wish to do so in one way or another, and I cannot imagine whether the Ministry is being complicated?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u130	What matters is the result. I have said here what the VVD thinks on this point: that this is extremely important. So I ask the Minister: how are we going to continue this? So I am not talking about institutions, as I have already said. I am concerned that this essential work should continue for those victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u131	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u132	But I think it is right that it is up to the Minister to assess how he is going to do that. My predecessor, Mr Ten Broeke, has said a great many things about this. I'm really glad he got that Forced Marriage Unit. I am now asking the Minister: how is he going to continue this work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u133	Sure, that help is important. I would like to ask Mr Koopmans: if the Minister thinks otherwise than the Chamber of Representatives, will the Minister do so together and ask for a ruling from the Chamber so that we can settle it through the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u134	It is very important that the Minister has freedom of policy in that regard. But if Mrs Karabulut agrees with me on this point that this is extremely important work, I know that she agrees with me. But that is the result and not the means.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u135	I would like to return to the raised finger in human rights and international law. The essence of human rights policy, of our foreign policy, is, of course, that you change something about the human rights situation, that you improve it, that you protect people who are in a difficult position, that you prevent impunity. That is why my party is very keen to give teeth to human rights policy through sanctions legislation at European level. I would ask the VVD colleague to support that idea, because then we do not have to wave that finger all the time. Then we can actually tackle these serious human rights violations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u136	I see this as an encouragement to the proposal that I have launched together with Mr Van Helvert to regulate at European level the following. If, through the European Union, we do infrastructure projects in certain countries, such as road construction and the construction of tram lines, and those countries do not meet important European objectives, such as the withdrawal of rejected asylum seekers, or the serious human rights violations that Mr Sjoerdsma has just appointed, or do not cooperate with security, we can say: well, then we will build that road somewhere else; then we will build that tram line somewhere else. That is a very effective means, I hope, that countries will give clear incentives to work for those good things that Mr Sjoerdsma is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u137	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u138	Of course, I am always happy to clear up free broadcasting time for Mr Koopmans' proposals. But the question was, of course, about 'I see that Mr Koopmans is now also aware that he has to respond to this question, namely personal sanctions in the area of freezing assets and the imposition of travel bans on those who commit very serious human rights violations. I know that the VVD also finds it improbably important to combat those violations. I have heard Mr Koopmans talk about this many times. But I would ask him now, apart from his own proposal, to support the proposal that his own minister is working hard on, namely to get that European sanction legislation, that Magnitsky legislation, done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u139	I know that Mr Sjoerdsma is also very passionate in this area. I know that he and other colleagues have managed to give the Minister the message to try to use it at European level. The Minister is working very hard on that right now. I wholeheartedly support the Minister in his work, but that is all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u140	Thank you, Mr. Koopmans. I now turn to Mr Van Ojik. Yes, Mr. Ojik, it's your turn, on behalf of GroenLinks. Mr Koopmans is ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When the German Chancellor put her head on the shoulders of the French President this weekend at the commemoration of the 1918 armistice, it became apparent at a glance how much constant diplomatic effort, international cooperation and the building of a global legal order have meant for the citizens of Europe. Of course, Europe had the terrible war in the Balkans in the 1990s, but that too is already a quarter of a century of peace behind us. Nowadays peace may seem almost self-evident, but anyone who goes into history knows that there is no self-evidentness. Save the paper and you can't beat it: the tone in our looks is getting darker. The optimism is having a hard time. The comparisons with the more disastrous periods in our recent history are not from the sky: emerging nationalism, increasing polarization, virulent anti-Semitism, virulent Muslim hatred and an increasing lack of respect, including among the Dutch allies, for international agreements and obligations. More than in a long period of time before, international diplomacy is facing the challenge of helping to prevent expulsion between states and lawlessness within states. More than ever, there is a need for consistent and credible foreign policy. With multilateralism, the rule of law and human rights under pressure, the key questions of foreign policy are becoming increasingly urgent. What can we do to deal with old and new threats? Who are our allies? Where is the Dutch added value? And how do we guarantee the Dutch interest? I would like to give a first appreciation to the first budget made by this cabinet itself, one year after it took office. I also make a number of suggestions where, according to my group, additional Dutch initiatives will be needed in the coming period. Unfortunately, two slippers overshadow Dutch foreign policy in 2018: Halbe Zijlstra's datha and the unintended insight into the dark thought world of his successor. Both events have unfortunately not done the Foreign Affairs Authority any good. But I want to be honest: there has also been a lot of good. In the Human Rights Council, despite much opposition, the Netherlands, together with others, managed to continue the investigation into war crimes in Yemen. And in the Security Council, we have ensured that important steps have been taken against Libyan smugglers and that a motion on the eradication of starvation as a weapon of war has been unanimously adopted in the Security Council. I am convinced that the Netherlands is often on the right side in international consultations. Whether it is about human rights, respect for multilateral agreements or the commitment to peace and security, the Netherlands normally expresses the voice of reason. And as others, even nearby, radicalize more and more, the importance of that moderate sound cannot be underestimated. Nevertheless, my group has raised a number of questions in the past year. I'll give you six. The first one. The minister made a deal with Venezuela, a regime that systematically violates all human rights. The deal made it possible for refugees to return from our Kingdom. This is now happening on a large scale, without any careful scrutiny or decent reception on the islands. The cabinet denies the Dutch responsibility. A second point. The Minister normalized relations with Turkey. It is of course a good thing that we are talking again, but what does that mean for the concerns that have been discussed for hours in this Chamber over the past year, namely the concerns about the tens of thousands that were imprisoned after the 2016 coupe, and about the much higher number of people who lost their jobs? Where is Turkey now when it comes to freedom of the press, freedom of organisation and a multiform political process? Has there ever been an approximate explanation of the motives behind Turkish action in and around Afrin? We have also talked about this in the Chamber for hours. How's that going? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Thirdly, my group also has questions about the cabinet's commitment to the Middle East Peace Process. We debated for hours in this Chamber the need for independent investigation into the violence at the fence between Israel and Gaza: independent investigation on both sides of the fence about the violence, which unfortunately has flared up again. In the meantime, as I read this week, more than 200 people were killed and nearly 20,000 were injured. "That indicates a disproportionate use of violence," said part of the Chamber. "First we wait for our own Israeli investigation," the Minister persisted. What's going on with that, anyway? Ever heard of it? It's been over six months. Mr. Chairman. My group did not think it was very well balanced that the Minister's responsibility to ensure that the labelling directive, which reveals the origin of illegal settlements in the occupied territories, is being implemented. That is the image that the Netherlands wants to save Israel. Fifth, there is naivety towards China. Mr Koopmans has already spoken about this. There's gonna be a strategy. Many ministers are involved and there is a great deal of discussion about this. I understand that, too, but anyone who reads the report that the cabinet sent on our request about Prime Minister Li Keqiang's visit gets the idea that a list of points of discussion has been ticked off rather than that there is a full dialogue on sensitive issues. Human rights? The debate is closed. Yeah, and then what? What's gonna happen now? Intellectual property? Requested to address this. Yes, very good. So what happens now? An uneven playing field? Put on the table, the cabinet says. Corporate social sustainability? Yeah, we talked about that. I believe that the Netherlands is raising this issue, but the question is really how the Chinese react and whether we like that reaction. If we don't, what consequences do we draw? Full foreign policy transcends the wish lists. It carries out our values and it protects our interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u142	I am very curious to see what consequences Mr Van Ojik would like to have on the issues he is now referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u143	I don't know, because unfortunately I'm not aware of the Chinese's response. Just a moment ago we had a little debate on how to best address human rights. I have the impression that Mr Koopmans sees that differently, it is interesting to hear that too often we say: yes, human rights, corporate social responsibility, intellectual property and espionage have been discussed; we are going to address it; that is all checked out. But effective foreign policy is something other than going to a dialogue with a list in your pocket and then going to see if you can put all things on the table. Then I'd like to know what China's reaction was, if there was one. If we like that reaction, fine, but if we don't like that reaction, what are we going to do? Too often I can give you a lot of examples of this; I would now like to mention the letter we had following the visit by the Chinese Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u144	Let me take a look at Mr Koopmans. Is that what you asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u145	That seems to be Mr Van Ojik's answer, but of course I asked for a real answer. Then what does Mr Van Ojik want done? He doesn't have an answer for that. He's asking the question again. I say it is very nice that, in addition to all trade discussions, job discussions and security discussions, it is also human rights, theft of intellectual property and so on. But if that does not come up with the answer Mr Van Ojik wants, what should the government do, according to Mr Van Ojik?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u146	A specific question. What's the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u147	Well, that is very speculative of course, because we do not yet know exactly what this dialogue has resulted in. Actually, we don't know that at all. But I could imagine, for example, that it is said from the Chinese side: we look at things like business espionage, intellectual property, joint ventures and technology transfer very differently from you in Western Europe. That would personally require me to be much more cautious in setting up all kinds of partnerships for, for example, the construction of new infrastructure, the so-called Belt and Road Initiative. But just so we're clear, that's all as-then. Mr Koopmans asks me: what if you do not like the Chinese answer? If I had determined that, I would be much more cautious than signing economic cooperation contracts for 7, 8 or 9 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u148	Finally, Mr Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u149	Mr Van Ojik has the opportunity here to tell the Minister and the Chamber what he thinks should be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u150	That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u151	He doesn't say that. He's just asking the question again. So if the reaction is not as Mr Van Ojik would wish, or if perhaps we would all wish, what should the government do realistically, effectively? That's my question. When Mr Van Ojik says: "I don't know, that's a like-dan question.", then I ask him why he doesn't ask that as-dan question himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u152	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u153	Okay, but I guess I didn't make myself clear. On the contrary, I said very explicitly that, if I did not like the Chinese answer, if I did, and I do not rule that out at all, I think that China is thinking very differently about a number of things that are very close to our hearts. I would be much more cautious than this cabinet in signing contracts worth, according to the Chinese ambassador, 10 billion, although the Netherlands does not mention any amounts. Elsewhere I read 5 to 6 billion. I'd be much more careful. That is the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u154	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u155	But then Mr Koopmans says that I am not answering his question, but this is the answer to his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u156	That's why I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u157	I would be much more cautious than the cabinet if I did not like that answer, but I do not know that answer and neither do Mr Koopmans. That's my point. Another matter. I have questions about the government's action in the field of foreign policy in the last year. That is my sixth point. Why is the cabinet holding on so cramped, I ask the Minister, to the mirage of the migration deals with third countries? I know, of course, that it is in the coalition agreement that it says: 'Conversations with transit countries and countries in the region about the reception and withdrawal of asylum seekers, both from their own nationals and from other countries in the region'. If it turns out that no one in the region wants us to hear that in the last month of a parliamentary delegation, the President of the European Commission, and recently of the Minister himself, is it not time to turn the boards and come up with new ideas and plans to replace these deals? I like to hear it. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the issue of military missions. I announced that last week at the AO about MINUSMA a little bit. Last week, GroenLinks also agreed to stop the mission in Mali, from MINUSMA, but it is of great importance in my group's view that we should not abandon the MINUSMA, even if we withdraw our soldiers later, and that we should not abandon the UN which is still active in so many peacekeeping operations on that point. I wonder how the Minister sees that. I come to the second part of my speech. Last year, when we discussed the budget, I called for a greening of foreign policy. I'd like to come back to that. My group very much welcomes the Dutch so-called Planetary Security Initiative, the initiative for the security of our planet, an initiative that seeks to link climate change, security and sustainable development. The question is, how do we ultimately translate the in-depth multi-stakeholder dialogues, as we apparently conduct them, and the annual international forum into concrete actions? What happens to the recommendations of the Hague Declaration on Planetary Security on the creation of a special climate security envoy at the United Nations, on the implementation of integrated government projects aimed at sustainable energy and climate change? What happens to these declarations, dialogues and many fine words, I believe, to which this initiative has so far given rise? I come to the other point relating to green foreign policy. Do we pay sufficient attention to the geopolitical implications of our energy policy? We were just talking about not being naive towards China. The same applies, of course, to Russia. We want to be less dependent on fossil fuels from Russia, as stated in the explanatory statement to the budget, but how long have we not been reading this? Is it not true that Russia's gas exports to the European Union have been increasing for years? Is it true that the construction of the new Nord Stream 2 pipeline has not even begun, and I would like to say that we are still not imposing the same requirements as pipes which run exclusively on European territory? The Chamber adopted a motion from me on this matter in the spring. The Minister interpreted that motion in a letter in June in such a way that the Netherlands will enter into consultation with Germany and the Commission in order to maintain the future role of Ukraine as a gas transit country. I would like to hear from the Minister about the situation. Then the environmental and land law activists. That's what we talked about last year. That too was the subject of discussion last year. According to Global Witness, 201 and 197 of them were murdered in 2016 and 2017. Many of them risk their lives for a purpose of conservation of the rainforest, combating unbridled logging or monoculture, which is of great importance for what is also our fight against climate change. These activists deserve our support and protection. Is the Minister prepared to add this group to the groups to whom, as far as I am concerned, the Human Rights Fund already pays particular attention? I come to my final point. Violence against environmentalists is a symptom of a world-wide shrinking space for social movements. This is the case in many places outside Europe, but unfortunately also within the European Union. We have procedures, such as Article 7, to punish the countries concerned for their behaviour, but strangely enough we do not have instruments, as we do have outside the EU, to actively support civil society in countries such as Poland, Hungary and Romania. Does the Minister also see this as a loss, and if so, what can he do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u158	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. Mr De Roon has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u159	I just wanted to ask a question about a point that I thought Mr Van Ojik might come up with himself, but he does not. My question is this. Mr Van Ojik said earlier that he suspected the government of being too generous towards Israel when it comes to certain actions. So now I ask Mr Van Ojik to take a look at the rocket rain that Hamas is now firing at Israel. I have argued that it is a war crime in two ways, in my opinion. So I wonder: where is GroenLinks' call to investigate this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u160	In fact, I reminded the Minister of the very wide-ranging discussion we have had in the wake of the violence which is actually starting every week. Even then, in that debate, we said: of course, such an investigation should extend to both sides. If there is violence between the Palestinians and the Israeli army, both parties can commit unlawful or disproportionate violence. The figures available at the time indicated that this disproportionate violence came mainly from the Israeli army. We asked for an independent investigation at that time. Who could be against that? But the minister didn't want that, and with him a majority of the Chamber. He said: we must wait for the Israeli army to investigate. Well, I'm still waiting on that investigation. The violence has now flared up again, but I think we share at least that I thought it would be a good idea to put a stop to it, and b) to examine how that could have been achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u161	Yes, but does Mr Van Ojik agree with me that there seems to be serious war crimes with that rocket rain and that this should also be thoroughly investigated? Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u162	I have never said at all, and I will not do so now, that we must judge violence on the Palestinian side differently from violence on the Israeli side. There is now violence on both sides. The conflict is threatening to get out of hand again. That opportunity now seems to have been reduced, fortunately, by the intervention of Egypt, if I understand correctly. But I would very much like us to understand by means of a 'balanced approach' that we are prepared to conduct independent investigations into who is responsible for this violence. And the minister didn't want that at the time. I've asked him about that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u163	Finally, Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u164	That is a very long detour, and it is a long detour, above all not to confirm what I am saying, namely that there are war crimes committed by Hamas and its associates and that an investigation should be carried out and that they should be held accountable and dealt with. Does Mr Van Ojik support this, or does he not support it? Without all sorts of stories about balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u165	I can only repeat once again that I wholeheartedly support the request for an independent investigation. In fact, I have always called, on all occasions that have taken place, for me not to use qualifications such as 'war crimes' at the moment, because I would like to await such an investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u166	Mr. Chairman. Another question on another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u167	Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u168	For I also heard Mr Van Ojik argue that Europe has enjoyed peace for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u169	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u170	He also referred to Mrs Merkel who put her head on Macron's shoulder and so on. I see that differently, because I see a massive invasion from Islamic countries within Europe, especially illegals entering, and I see violence against Europe everywhere by people with an Islamic background. So my point of view is that Europe is not at all free from war, that Islam is currently...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u171	And what's the question, Mr. De Roon?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u172	Yeah, I'm getting to that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u173	It'll take a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u174	Yeah, that takes a while sometimes, Mr. Chairman, but that's okay, isn't it? I don't spend much time here at this microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u175	No, I didn't. That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u176	So my position is that there is indeed a war against Europe, that is happening from Islam, which is not in itself a state, but we all know that many wars are now being waged by non-state actors. And in my opinion Islam is one of them. My question to Mr Van Ojik is whether he also sees a war raging in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u177	No, I don't. To be honest, I find it sad for Mr De Roon that he does not see how privileged we are in Europe with the fact that it has been for 73 years, and I have mentioned the Balkans as an exception, is peace on our continent. I find it sad for him that he does not see that peace does not come out of the sky, but that it requires the daily efforts of those who work for the same international legal order he said in the previous debate: I am more of a nationalist. We live in peace for 73 years. Mr De Roon has also been living in peace for 73 years. And what does he do? He chooses sides for the people who set up groups of people against each other in Europe. He's using the term "war" for what we're living in right now. He says we have to be nationalistic and people threaten us all the time. To be honest, I find it sad for Mr De Roon that he cannot see in any way how privileged we are at the moment. We have lived in peace with each other in this Parliament and outside the streets for 73 years, and we can still speak with minimal respect for each other. So I share his analysis that we're not living in war.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u178	I do feel privileged to live in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u179	It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u180	You didn't get that right, did you? But you are blind on more points, because when I speak of a war that Islam is waged against the West, you obviously do not see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u181	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u182	That makes me sad again, but it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u183	It is terrible to speak in such generalities as Mr De Roon does about the Islam that wages war against the West. It makes me sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u184	You both end up a little sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u185	Yeah, that's not gonna work. I can't make it any prettier than it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u186	No. Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u187	Thank you, Madam President. How do you keep a cool head here? A head with red eyes, a head full of questions and reproaches, A head that's overflowing. How do we keep our heads cool? On 22 July 2014, Mrs De Breij asked those questions in a poem on the radio. The poem wrote them after the national disaster called MH17. The question of how we keep our heads down is something we can often ask ourselves. In so many countries violence and intolerance flare up. Angry people who wish us no good come through the social media in our living room. You just follow gross human rights violations in your own kitchen. In the front yard we leave extra cameras and in the backyard we have fences placed. And we're gonna get hacked. We have a head with red eyes. Russia, Pakistan, Mali, Iraq, Yemen and Syria, Afghanistan, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia, China, India, Iran, and Turkey and Libya. We have a head full of questions and reproaches. Persecution for race, oppression for sex, imprisoned for who you love, torment for faith, exclusion for conviction, abuse for who you are. Our heads are overflowing. For the 12th year in a row, the Freedom House reports that democracy, civil rights and freedoms are deteriorating worldwide. Professor Paul Scheffer sees the retreat of democracy as one of the most profound since the 1930s. How do we keep our heads down? And it wasn't the only question Mrs De Breij put in that poem. How to keep a heart warm, she asked. How do we keep our hearts warm? For perhaps the fear of the uncertainties I have just mentioned, the fear of violence, the fear of war, of threat, of barbarism, of fear of others, may drag those fears into a turnaround. Eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth. Separation from "she" to "we." Boundaries closed, as if they existed. What boundaries? Behind the dikes, as if the Netherlands ends there, and when we actually know that abroad begins there. How do we keep our hearts warm? Many people in the Netherlands give us a great example of that warm heart. They help people in need, help those who flee, call for peace instead of violence, and pray for unity. Others, they are sometimes the same people, too, show their fear. And it's okay. They're screaming, "Get rid of them and take that dictator." Call them on the mat. The latter is done a lot here in the Chamber. Convict that behavior and break contact. Madam President. In the Chamber we are representatives of all people. And it is up to us to include the fears and wishes of all Dutch people in our decisions, the decisions on how we understand ourselves with the neighbours and with distant friends. From this point of view, on behalf of our group, I would like to discuss the following points concerning the budget with the Chamber and with the Minister. It is about the continued commitment to multilateral links. It's, two, about prosecuting and prosecuting ISIS fighters. I would also like to talk, point three, about a special envoy for freedom of faith and belief. Four: basic religious knowledge at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As a fifth, I'd like to talk about Magnitsky law. Six: a parliamentary contact group with the United States of America, you will be pleased, Madam President. Seven: there are also for people abroad. One: the continued use of multilateral links. Over the past year, the Netherlands has been working for peace and security in the world. In the UN Security Council, the Netherlands has shown that a small country can be large, together with the right allies. Does it always happen fast? No. Are we too slow? Yes. Is there an alternative? Yeah, you can do things faster on your own. Do we achieve our goal? No, because together you'll move on. Actually, you learn that even when you're growing up in a family or in elementary school. Pushing through and imposing your own senses cannot be continuous and always. You're gonna have to come out together, especially when it comes to foreign affairs. Let's take those lessons from old times. That is why I would also like to call on the Minister to continue working with the Netherlands, even if we leave the UN Security Council shortly, in a multilateral context. Despite the fact that I know it's not hip, that it doesn't get big headlines and gets no popularity prize, we will have to keep inviting other countries, including those with which we disagree, to the table. In the UN, in the EU, in NATO and also in other contexts, such as the Benelux, we must also let that platform shine wherever they are the right platform. The Rhine idea also applies here: what is good for us also gives me prosperity. Meet me at the table and come out together, and I'll keep doing that call to the minister. I would also like to give an example of what we could do, even if we are out of the UN Security Council. Because inviting and continuing to talk at the table does not mean that we should not clearly state our limits. Then I come to point two: the prosecution and trial of IS fighters. In Syria and Iraq, IS fighters have committed crimes against humanity. They haven't made a secret of that. Through social media, men inciting each other brought the horrible images on our screens and our tablets. This can't go unpunished. Denying such a great crime is perfecting it. Leaving such acts unpunished or unfairly punished also opens up a follow-up in the Middle East, in Europe or in our country. Now that IS military is almost defeated in Iraq and also in Syria, fighters want to return to their own country. It can't be that they take their jobs back home without consequences, as if nothing had happened. Punishment is not an option. I have already called on the Minister, together with many colleagues in the Chamber, by means of two motions for resolutions, to put forward proposals in the UN Security Council for a mechanism for condemnation. But no proposal has yet been made. Our term in the Security Council is almost over. These fighters pose an acute threat to Europe, to the Netherlands. I therefore urge the Minister to come up with a proposal so that we can refer back to these plans even after we leave the Council. Because when we are out of the Council and we can only refer to 'we have committed ourselves to', 'we have brought ourselves to' or 'we have called for', then we have nothing else. We want to see a concrete proposal. It is also very important, especially when we see that the evidence to condemn people is becoming more and more exposed. In more and more areas, by the way, thanks to the use of our armed forces, security comes back and so you can also look at evidence. Mass graves discovered in Iraq and Syria are horrible places, but they are also evidence banks. In addition, we heard from STIVD that IS is regrouping with our NATO ally Turkey. Another reason to make sure warriors have to answer. When it comes to the taking of evidence, I would like to ask what the Minister's position is with regard to the public and transparent way of collecting evidence, such as the citizens' journalism network Bellingcat. How does the Minister see this way of working for the prosecution and trial of IS fighters? Paragraph 3: A special envoy for the freedom of faith and belief. We must clearly state our limits. In addition to table needs, we must also set clear limits. This also applies to Article 18 of the Declaration of Human Rights, the freedom of conscience, faith and religion. Worldwide, individuals and communities are discriminated against, treated as second-class citizens or even persecuted, imprisoned or murdered because of their religious beliefs, their desire to change that belief or because they distance themselves from religion. This intolerance is an early indicator of possible violence and conflict, also armed, later. This makes defending philosophical freedom in the world all the more urgent. In the coalition agreement we read that we want to stand up for vulnerable groups, such as persecuted Christians. That is why, together with colleagues Voordewind and Van der Staaij, I propose to appoint a special envoy to defend Article 18 on behalf of our country for all vulnerable groups. The Special Envoy may regularly share the findings and work with the Chamber. I have already tabled a motion for this in the course of the discussion of the Human Rights Note. With a few clear sentences, I will put it back to the vote after the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u188	Would such a special envoy fight blasphemy laws, blasphemy laws?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u189	Absolutely, Madam President. That really is an example for people who like to come to the Netherlands to flee from those laws. That's something we should be putting in. In fact, this envoy can signal it much earlier, so we can get to it before things get out of hand. That is an excellent example for which we could ask such a special envoy. Such an envoy may report to the Chamber so that the subject is kept on the agenda of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u190	I think it is a proposal which comes from an enormous urgency, which I can also taste. Mr Koopmans rightly asked about the blasphemy laws, which are used worldwide, not to enforce respect, but above all to put minorities in the corner, prosecute them and sometimes even torture them or condemn them to death. It is very good that this special envoy should also be able to deal with this issue. Do you agree that this special envoy is not only looking at religious minorities, but also at the third largest group in the world that is being persecuted, the group of non-believers, a group to which I also count myself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u191	Very fair question from Mr Sjoerdsma. I tried to emphasise in my speech that it is absolutely also about groups that distance themselves from their religion or do not maintain religion. Certainly, because in that sense, these minorities are in exactly the same boat as religious minorities: they are oppressed, persecuted or murdered. We have all received a letter from the Humanist Covenant which states: bring such an envoy, who can also do that work for our group. So in that sense at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u192	Clear answer, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u193	Yes, Mr President, you are reviewing the answer, but I agree with that review: it is a clear answer, an answer that satisfies me and reassures me, also with Mr Van Helvert's comment on the blasphemy laws. As far as I'm concerned, we're going to do it worldwide. Maybe we could do that in the last month and a half in which we are still in the Security Council. Anyway, I'd like to hear if Mr Van Helvert thinks that's an interesting idea too, because then we'll make it all the way through.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u194	Yeah, I'm sure that's an interesting idea. For the Netherlands is not the only country that has such an envoy. There are a number of other countries that have such an envoy, and the European Union also has one. It is precisely the intention that they should work together in this respect. For that, you could use platforms like the European Union, as the United Nations, to take steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u195	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u196	Then I come to point 4: increase the basic religious knowledge at the Foreign Office. The role of and interest in religion has increased worldwide in recent years. Even in the Netherlands, last week, joint religious leaders made their voices heard from each other by offering a petition. I received them in the hall of the House of Representatives, together with colleagues Voordewind and Van Rooijen. They call on politics to ensure that the humanitarian disaster in Yemen comes to an end and that the hunger there can be satisfied with the food that may be in the ports, but the weapons used cannot be used by the right people. I would like to call on the Minister to do everything in his power to comply with that petition. It is therefore essential to pay close attention to the factor of religion when designing foreign policy. Religion is no stranger to the Ministry, of course. Security, terrorism and human rights are obvious policy areas in which religion is a significant factor. But religion and religious organisations and actors also play a role in climate, emergency aid and migration, for example. I would like to ask the Minister whether this is being dealt with in the Ministry and in the posts. Does this happen in a structured way? Are knowledge and experience exchanged in this respect? The Netherlands is one of the most secular societies in the world and is therefore an exception. In the rest of the world, things are different. The risk of a certain secular one-sidedness and religious illiteracy is certainly present. The role of religion should not be made too large or too small. That is why I have the following questions for the Minister. How is the basic knowledge of the religion factor in the Ministry and in the posts structurally secured? How are knowledge and experience exchanged structurally? Is participation in international networks in this area strong enough? Is the Minister prepared to discuss this at the Ministry? And, which I also think is very important, is the Minister prepared to share and discuss it with the Chamber if there is a vision at the Ministry? Finally, is the Minister also prepared to involve institutions such as the VU or other civil society organisations in such a vision? Point five, Magnitsky law. The Minister is organising a diplomatic symposium on Magnitsky legislation this month. That is a good thing. Compliment for the Minister. This legislation, if it comes into effect, will make it even better for us to tackle the desired individual human rights violators, rather than whole populations by means of sanctions against a country. I would like to give the Minister the following note, because he also asked the participants of the symposium to come up with ideas and notes on paper. Now the minister said I shouldn't be a participant. I explicitly asked for that, but I wasn't allowed to listen. I understand, because it's a diplomatic meeting. But that is why, together with colleagues Omtzigt and Sjoerdsma, whom I am also very grateful for their contribution, and with Gerald Knaus of the ESI, the European Stability Initiative, and the Norwegian Helsinki Committee, I have made a note which I would like to give to the Minister. The note gives an advance to implement the Magnitsky law to be built in Europe. This could be a piece of it. In short, the note is that there will be an independent committee of judges, which will make a living list of human rights criminals. This can be adjusted at any time. Once a year, the Commission presents a public list and proposes to the European Council of Ministers to record the documents, papers, possessions and accounts of those concerned. I would now like to hand over our note to the Minister. I think that goes through the messenger to the chairman and then to the minister. I'd like to hand it over, because the Minister asked for ideas to be put in writing. This can then send the Minister to the participants. I'd be happy to do that myself, that's no problem. I am also prepared, as Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Knaus and the Norwegian Helsinki Committee, to explain at that symposium, if that is allowed, because we are, of course, representatives of the people. But Mr Knaus is not; he is of a think tank. So, Madam President, I would like to hand that over now, if you would stop the time. Please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u197	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u198	I have one for you too, Madam President. I believe they're in triples, so if you want more, that's no problem. Then the Minister can take these to the symposium. Once again, there is certainly a willingness on my part to explain this note there, but so is Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Knaus and the Norwegian Helsinki Committee. Then I will go on to point six: the United States parliamentary contact group. Together we can do more, let's throw it in again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u199	Because I think that point six is the last point...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u200	I've got seven, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u201	What's point seven?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u202	That is: there are Dutch people abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u203	Ah, also very important, but then I think I'm going to ask my question on point five by Mr Van Helvert. "Punishment of human rights violations is extremely important." I look forward to the note with great interest. I will study them, but my point is about war crimes in Yemen being carried out under the leadership of the coalition of Saudi Arabia, supported by a number of other countries. Starvation is used as a weapon of war. Now the Netherlands has successfully achieved a resolution in the UN Security Council that will enable us to deal with it and punish the guilty. Something the religious leaders, in order to remain in the spheres of Mr Van Helvert, also called upon. They completely embraced the petition about this. Can I count on the support of Mr Van Helvert when I propose to implement this resolution in the UN Security Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u204	Thanks for the initiative. It is also nice that the SP is making itself very strong for this. Put hunger as a weapon. Indeed, we should congratulate the Minister on the success of the Dutch commitment to the UN Security Council, especially since the Netherlands has shown itself to learn from the past. Frederik Hendrik often came to The Hague and then he said to the court: look, people, I can go to war without using weapons. What did he do? Cities like Maastricht and Den Bosch he just starved. Well, we've learned from the past, so we say we don't do this anymore. It's also officially a weapon of war. I have consulted with Mr Sjoerdsma in advance. Maybe you'll come up with a motion to get the Minister to do things. I would also like to make a motion with Mr Sjoerdsma. I think we should take a look at how we put it together and how we spell out our political words in order to achieve one fine motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u205	Can I translate this as follows? Indeed, this is something medieval, but it is currently being applied, in full ornate, in Yemen by Saudi Arabia. We cannot, we cannot, as Mr Van Helvert said. Can I then count on the support of whoever this motion comes from? I'll take the initiative, you too; happy to do so. Definitely working together where you can. But can I count on your support?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u206	I say yes to the principle, but I must say that I have known Mrs Karabulut for a long time and it is always exciting to see what she is asking for in the motion. To say yes to a motion that I have not yet seen, I find exciting. But I support the principle. That is why I say: let us come to something together on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u207	You've got all day before this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u208	Fine, Mr. Chairman. There's nothing more or less than what I'm saying. I'm glad about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u209	Proceed, Mr. Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u210	I started with the fantastic point, Madam President, of the parliamentary contact group with the United States, and you will certainly be pleased. Because together we can do more. Do you know that the Netherlands has 342 million inhabitants? 342 million people we count when we do things together with the United States. If you have good allies and you work together, you can do a lot. The relationship with the United States is very old: over 400 years. The Netherlands is the first ally of the United States. You don't just break up that relationship in one or two presidential periods. It is remarkable that we do not have a parliamentary contact group with the United States. The United States do have a so-called friendship group for the Netherlands: the Dutch Caucus. Congressmen like to get in touch with the Netherlands. It is very important that we speak structurally with our colleagues in other countries and certainly with the United States. Our cultural-historical bond but also our political-economic bond and our military band are very large. No other country can make such a triple on the table. I have given you a note of this in the past, Mr President. I also know you're afraid of precedent. You say if one comes with America, we get more and more. That is why I am putting forward these arguments. No other country can show us historical-cultural, political-economic and military ties as the US can. You also spoke to the United States ambassador yourself. In order to ensure that you can give him good news at the next meeting, I will, together with many colleagues, table a second motion to establish a parliamentary contact group with the United States. All this does not have to take long, because we already have a very good idea of what this parliamentary contact group might look like. I propose that we hold the first meeting with the American Ambassador in December. Madam President, I would also like to say to you that you can record this as a commitment on my part, and that I am very willing to help you set up this contact group. In this troubled period, including on the North American continent, we must keep our heads down and our allies around the table to push things that are going well and to punch things that need improvement or even reverse. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the final point: there are for our people. Dutch people abroad must notice that we like that they are Dutch. For them too, we must have a warm heart. They're with us. The CDA is very pleased that posts are being strengthened and that consulates are improving services. In this context, I read in the media a wonderful initiative by colleagues Sjoerdsma and Koopmans that the price of passports for Dutch people abroad should not be higher. I thank the Minister for the letter on easier voting abroad. We are now getting a pilot to vote at the embassies in big cities. In the answer to my question whether Dutch people in municipalities can vote just across the border of the Netherlands next time in the municipality in the Netherlands where they are bordering, the Minister refers to BZK. Of course, that was a bit of a shame, but I get it. That is where we will have to put that question. Finally, attention should be paid to the efforts of the Karama Group. I don't often take a group out, but I do now because I think it's so important. The Karama Group is nonviolent in defending women's rights in the Middle East. That's what it takes. They've had a rough year there. For two years now, we have been fighting for support for this foundation here in the Chamber. We understand that there are problems with the accounts and that there are some questions because some projects from Idlib were submitted too late because they were bombed there. The CDA is in favour of proper control of the expenditure of Community funds. So if an audit report shows that money has been abused, we are the first to say that this is not good. I would also like to express my sympathy for the late submission of the financial documents due to a bombed office. I suggest that once the accountant is ready, the Ministry organises the financial support for next year. Madam President. With a cool head and a warm heart we should invite to the table and indicate limits. On the seven points I wish the Minister a great deal of wisdom and success in his work. I look forward to the Minister's reply, but also yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u211	Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert. Then I suggest we suspend until 2:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-14-tweedekamer-5.u212	After the suspension, we'll start with the arrangement of work. Then we will continue the first term on the side of the Chamber.
