ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the debate on the Defence budget for 2019. We need an answer from the government. First of all, there's the Secretary of Defense here. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to thank the members of the Chamber on behalf of the Secretary of State for their input in the first term and in particular for everything they have said about the men and women who do the work and their assessment of it. It is important that all Members of Parliament have said so. We've been in the Department of Defense for a little over a year now. This is actually a very nice time to look back on the past year, but also to look forward to the future. A number of members of your Chamber also asked for this. I will look back in a number of broad lines to talk about the organization we found. Then I'll tell you what steps we've taken and what challenges we've encountered along the way. And then I would like to speak ahead of time about the changing security situation in the world, because in fact all the members of the Chamber have talked about it, also in the context of the commitments we have as an ally in NATO. In addition, I would like to answer a number of separate questions, including cyber, veterans, the Invictus Games and social service. The Secretary of State will then go into the concrete plans and dilemmas in the fields of personnel, management and equipment. Of course, the working conditions agreement is a major part of this. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna take a look back at that one year, and how we started with the DOD. Upon entering, it became clear to us that the defense had a long way to go upstairs. We both said we saw that, too. The organization was hollowed out in that sense. We also discussed this last week in the WHO-P. You saw the impact of these years of austerity become visible, especially in this cabinet period, and especially in employees. Much had happened and we realized it from the beginning. It is true that our people could not practice and train as needed. They've been doing work for two for years. The safety of our people was not given sufficient attention. We've talked a lot about that in the past year. Material was in need of replacement; you mentioned all this. And the shelves had to be supplemented with ammunition and spare parts; this has already been discussed in the legislative submissions. That was our starting point a year ago. When I look at the debates in this year, a lot of things have happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u3	Mrs Karabulut, I see that you already want to interrupt, but is it not right for the Minister to finish her introductory remarks?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u4	No, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u5	Really? Well, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u6	No, Mr. Chairman, because it's really about looking back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u7	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u8	I had the feeling that the Minister now wanted to change over to the future and I think looking back and drawing the right lessons is also important for that future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u9	Then I'm gonna go ask the Minister. Have you looked back enough, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u10	No, I'm gonna look back a little bit further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u11	Yeah, we'll wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u12	I'm going to say a little more about the past year. I had just stayed with the situation we found, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u13	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u14	Now I wanted to say something about what we have done over the past year and what we want to do with it in the future. There has been a lot of debate over the past year. In these debates, we have talked constantly about staff, about safety and about the equipment people work with or with which they go on a mission. We've actually talked about our culture in the Defense Department. It's good to say that at the beginning. It was about culture and customs. All these issues also need attention. They deserve attention, too. It is also good to say that the Secretary of State and I have started talking from the beginning, from low to high in the organization, to write the Defence Note. We've talked to a lot of motivated people in all kinds of places who can talk about their work with passion. If you look at what we encountered in that year, you actually see something weird, some kind of hard truth. Just at the moment when the cabinet can start to invest structurally, so substantial additional money is made available. You could say that the way up can be taken; so we have also set it down. As an organisation, we are always being pulled down as a result of the cuts in recent years. And that's a really weird thing. Positive news about, for example, incoming spare parts or new vehicles is constantly being exchanged with negative news about, for example, remaining stocks and safety. Every time you take a step, you're confronted with something a little bit longer back, which of course we have to act on. We are very aware of that. With the Defence Note of March this year, which is now eight months ago, 1.5 billion came structurally to Defense and then the Secretary of State and I presented the measures to regain the confidence of the personnel and replace and renew the current armed forces. I want to say something about what we've been working on. We've had a lot of conversations with employees in the workplace to find out what problems they're facing. We've started those conversations from low to high. We are, of course, talking about working conditions. We have begun to replace the fleet and many other replacement projects. We have started investing and specializing in information-driven action. We have paid attention to the cyber and information domain, which can be found in the new Defence Cyber Strategy mentioned by a number of members. We have strengthened operational support and we have actually started to strengthen cooperation with allies, strategic partners, other government organisations, civil society organisations and business. For example, in PESCO, we have committed ourselves to permanent structured cooperation in Europe for the Military Mobility project. The Netherlands is also the leading country in the EU, which is also widely recognised in order to facilitate the cross-border transport of military capabilities within Europe. We can only do this together with other European partners. Last week, we presented the Defence Innovation Strategy and the Defence Industry Strategy, as we promised to your Chamber. We didn't build it like we thought. We did that together with other ministries. Of course, we are doing the Defence Industry Strategy very strongly together with the Ministry of EZK. But we also developed them with the business community. The same goes for the Cyber Strategy. We talked to companies that were allowed to think along. This is how these strategies came about. Our goal is actually, because we can't do it alone, to work well together with all those people who are important to us in Dutch society. This also applies to shipbuilding, which has been discussed in the context of the Defence Industry Strategy. For example, Mr Voordewind and Mrs Bruins Slot spoke about this. It is evident for the Navy Cluster, but not only the Navy Cluster. Reading of the Defence Industry Strategy also reveals what we are doing in the field of satellites and communication. We are good at this and we think it is of strategic importance to keep it in the Netherlands. Finally, on this point of looking back, we decided as a cabinet, on a proposal from Defence and also following the military advice of the Commander of the Armed Forces, to end the contribution to the UN mission in Mali as of 1 May 2019. That is an answer to Mrs Popken. Well, I guess I'll just take that here. We did that because we saw, also considering what we saw in the country and what we made out of the conversations, that that mission took way too much from the Defense Department. We had to provide our own support there. We also talked about this two weeks ago. We could not rely enough on other countries there, as we do in Afghanistan and Iraq. It made far too much appeal to our own armed forces. That tax was just way too big for the army. That's why it's being phased out. We have looked carefully at the critical opinions of the Court of Auditors, I say in the direction of Mrs Popken, but we have also seen on our own that this is too big a change. After a period of transport back will be worked on maintenance and repair. This also contributes to the restoration of the readiness of Defence and the Army. That is entirely in line with the Court's findings, I say to Mrs Popken. With every new mission and every extension of existing commitment, we will constantly weigh up the recovery of readiness. We'll talk to your room about that. That's about looking back, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u15	The Minister began her introduction with a sketch of how the Defence Organisation was eroded, because it needed to be cut back but at the same time the political pressure and mission pressure remained. The Minister is right to say that every time we want to do something, the organisation collapses because there are gaps. How would the Minister qualify for this policy in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u16	We described in the Defence Paper that the whole thinking in ambitions for Defense was not a good idea. Defense is a constitutional task. We have also, as you have seen, turned that into the first main task in the Defence Paper and the budget: to protect our Kingdom and the alliance. I think, as I have previously exchanged with you, but differently with others, that there has really been too much cuts in defence and that we have to go a long way. We are. We've come a long way. With these investments, there has also been a real first step in the recovery process. That is how I made it very clear. There is still a great deal to be done. You will also see things pupping up very regularly in the press that throw us back a bit. And then the Secretary of State and I are going again, and I thought it was nice that Mrs Belhaj had adopted that term, because I do use it courageously to take steps. I'll talk about that in a minute. Because it can only go better one step at a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u17	I was a little afraid of this answer. First of all, I should like to call it completely politically irresponsible. Maybe the Minister agrees with me and she can use that qualification. Secondly, I do not see what lessons the Minister has learned for the future. Because when I then listen to the Minister, I do not hear her say: we are going to have a good collective agreement for the staff, we are going to have peace in the organisation and we are going to do something about the ambitions. Because NATO is pulling and the Minister is simply expanding the mission in Afghanistan. The presence of troops in Lithuania is also extended; it becomes a kind of semi-permanent presence. I do not see that the Minister has drawn the lessons she should draw from this, because I see that the Minister is still...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u18	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u19	... when NATO asks if the United States is asking for something to prevail...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u20	Your question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u21	... over the staff. Can the Minister reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u22	I haven't gotten to the whole part about NATO yet. I shall come back to that later in my speech. Then I'll say a little more about it. There is no misunderstanding about the fact that I think that there has been far too much cuts in the defence sector in recent years and that we need to take a good look at how we start. That is why we chose as we chose in the Defence Note. We have initially opted for recovery, support, standing there again and working on readiness. The first thing the Secretary of State and I have done is to use the 400 million that we put into the previous budget. That is what we constantly put first. That is also what we have done in the past year. We didn't stop in Mali for nothing, I reported it to you. More has been looked at where you should stop to eventually work on recovery. In the end, we are also there to stand for our first primary task: the protection of the Kingdom and the alliance. We have a lot of things to do before that. I shall come back to that later when it comes to NATO. I share part of your analysis, but not your entire analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u23	You just made it very clear that you think there's been too much cuts in the defense. That may be so, but there have been choices, scandals and incidents. Do you think it is right to blame them solely on austerity? The choices were also largely made internally by the Defense Department. Choices, for example, to have a cafeteria messed up or to order gas masks with chrome-6 and not to do anything about it. These are all matters on which the House of Representatives has not tabled a motion to set it up in this way. I always find it a little complicated when austerity strikes down on the heads of the House of Representatives all by itself, because there have also been internal choices that have led to this. What do you think of this analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u24	I have by no means stacked this on the head of the House of Representatives, although it does have budget rights, of course. The Chamber could have chosen, that is certainly true, to invest more in Defense, and it could have. I didn't stack it on your head or on the heads of the MPs. I have confirmed that I think that there has been too much savings, and that we have also written in the Defence Note, and that what we are doing is only a first step. If you make so much savings and think you're going to reject buildings, which was the case, which you then keep open again, you obviously don't invest in buildings. You may not be improving them, but let them be squandered. I don't think that's crazy. It is if you think you're moving out. If you were to leave your home to go to another house, you wouldn't be investing in your home anymore. That's what happened. Clear choices have been made, some of which were inevitable, because there really was no money for them. It's always choices that have been made. It had to happen with the budget there was.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u25	That indeed had to happen with the budget that was there, but that does not alter the fact that internal choices have also been made, which have ultimately had disastrous consequences, choices that the Lower House as such was not involved in. Those budgets were spent and for that the administration of this country was responsible, not politics. I always have trouble with that. Another question I would like to ask you...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u26	Mr President, I do not know, because this is another question...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u27	No, you can't interfere with the MP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u28	Oh, that would be so much fun!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u29	Oh, yeah. The MP's gonna finish the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u30	Another point is, we don't have to look back all the time. I have said that before, and I agree with you. Again, I made my point about the fact that we are jointly responsible for this situation. This means that we also have to work together to get out. How we're supposed to work on that, you just indicated. You have the idea that we are going up the road, I have just lost the exact term. Do you really think so? If I listen to the people carefully, I have the idea that you made a movement of a kind of u't with it, a kind of well to name it just so well the bottom of that well has not yet been reached at all. I have the big question as to whether you are doing sufficient expectation management.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u31	I didn't mention a bottom of a well. I'd like to take that away. It's choices that have been made. I said that those choices were made because there was too little budget. That was done under administrative responsibility. I agree with you that together, you started your story with that, a little detached from the party political side, because that is what you said, I think, should see how we can take those steps towards recovery. And see how we can improve the transparency you're working on for the Chamber. I wanted to end this, but do it again. So I agree with you very much. Mr. Chairman. We're gonna run into a lot of things. That's what I just said. We're going up one step at a time, I think. I really think there are improvements, but you don't always see them because then you always see the other side. That is the point I just mentioned: the very strange thing we are facing is that we are taking steps on the one hand and on the other hand we are being pulled down again and again. Every time there are incidents. I do think, I have discussed this with Mrs Diks before, that it does not help to put that under a magnifying glass in the Chamber every time something is not good or bad. They are incidents, but they are the result of an organization that has failed for years, which has also been affected by the cuts. As far as I'm concerned, you should always see it as part of the bigger picture. And that's what we need to talk about together. I really think we can only make improvements step by step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u32	Good. Mr. Kerstens, I'd like to give you the opportunity. But if you are going to ask a question about the future, I would prefer the Minister to speak first about the future. Otherwise, we won't get past the point of the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u33	We must, of course, give the past a place before we can go to the future. I get that. I almost wanted to say that the Minister is doing it again. In reply to Mrs Diks' question, one of the last sentences is again 'it's because of the cuts'. One of the biggest scandals of the past decades at the Department of Defense is what happened to the people who worked with chromium-6. It's been kept under wraps for 30 years. For 30 years, these people have been kept stupid. If you asked a question about it, you were told there was the hole in the door. What does this scandal have to do with the cuts, with the decisions that have been taken here in the past? Surely nothing, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u34	This is the Secretary of State's wallet, but it has nothing to do with it. I didn't say that. I did say that the cuts have done a lot with the organisation. I mentioned this example: if you close a location, you don't invest in it. But of course that is a political decision! There's no one denying that. Chrome-6 has been investigated and there has been a joint committee. The Secretary of State has also acknowledged on our behalf that this was wrong. We have also made an arrangement which has been discussed in the Chamber. We are currently working with chrome-6. And that's what's happening. That has to do with safety, because there was nothing else to guarantee flight safety. You know that, too. It has been a choice to use it, and it must be done safely. But that is the Secretary of State's portfolio and I think she will also address the questions on chromium. Questions have been asked about this, but the Secretary of State is whispering to me that she does not go into that but rather about safety in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u35	Furthermore, the chromium-6 scandal was not so much a scandal as a result of the use of chromium-6 in connection with safety. The problem was that the Department of Defense kept their mouths shut while people were working with that life-threatening stuff. We often get the disclaimer that we have to come a long way, because there has been cuts, but in my question I also decided that something is going on with the culture of the Defense Department. I don't think that's part of the cut. Could the Minister say something about that? Looking back, isn't it, because we're not gonna be looking forward until later?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u36	I did mention the point of culture in my story. I did so in one sentence, but I did say that we have, of course, found and seen a lot of things in terms of culture. The need for improvements is obvious, just as it goes without saying that security policy should be improved. We have received the report from the Van der Veer Committee on what has happened. We have taken on board all the recommendations and there are a lot of recommendations about culture in the defence sector. After the debate with the Chamber, we also set up a visitation committee. I do not know if Mr Kerstens was present, but he himself was able to speak with the chairman of the Committee on Visitation, Mrs Verbeet. She then explained what she saw and talked on her own about an outlandish organization. I didn't make that term up. She explained this here. I heard it in the conversation with her, too. That's what happens to people in an organization. I do not deny any of the facets you mention, but you must also see it in that broad framework. I wanted to point out that what we found was indeed more serious than anyone could have thought. If you go around and talk to people yourself, I think you'll see that, too. So we have to come a long way to work on that trust. As far as that is concerned, I am not putting anything under the sail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u37	Mr. Öztürk, you came in a little later. We've got the deal. Interrupts in two tops. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u38	Okay, I'll stick to that!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u39	And not a half!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u40	Very good. I hear the Minister say: we have really found something; it takes years for us to improve something, and there will be some news in the media. So there's a lot of calculus. Loss is being made, in the sense of: dear people, we are doing our best, but there will be some misery in the coming time; you just have to take that for granted, for you have been cutting back for years. That's crazy, but that's what the CDA was doing. The cuts didn't happen by another party. They were also affected by the CDA, the VVD and other parties. I think the Minister is creating too negative a picture of what she has found. Is she very realistic in that, or is she aware of this in order to cover herself a little politically?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u41	I do not know if Mr Öztürk has heard me at all, but I have just said that we are moving forward step by step. We will. We can't take any major steps, you shouldn't have a huge pattern of expectations, because we have to get from very far together. That's what I said. I said that we all have to be patient, for example because we need all kinds of people. For example, we need producers for material. We have to order things. It'll take a while to get there. That's how real you have to be. You have to look at it realistically, with your feet on the ground, I'd almost say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u42	I can't agree that a picture is being created of: it was a mess, it was too bad and you need years to make it right. I think that now that there are resources, we can and must take faster steps. If you say you can't do that, explain exactly what it's about. What steps can you not take because it really takes time, through procedures, by fewer men, by little money or by production times? In a report, indicate exactly what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u43	I've indicated that we need time. It just takes time to buy something. The Secretary of State will discuss this, because she is responsible for it. At the beginning, I outlined the division of labour that we intend to have in this debate. The Secretary of State will address these points. You can't have a uniform alone today or tomorrow. You have spoken about this and the Secretary of State will say something about it. Even if we wanted something and we would have the money for it, that doesn't mean I put you in another suit tomorrow. That's how real you must be. There's just not enough money for a lot of things. I do not quite know if you have been in the debates on the Defence Memorandum, but then you know that one and a half billion and a half is really just a good start. That's all it is. We need to invest much more in Defense to realize this, given where we come from, and put the money away to meet the first constitutional task of achieving NATO capacity requirements. It's gonna take a lot more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u44	Good. The Minister continues her speech and talks about the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u45	Yeah, I was gonna look forward. In the transition to the future, I just wanted to say one more thing. It is good to say that I am happy that we are doing things. The debate on this matter also took place in the Chamber last year. We can't all spend the money now; we save it to spend later. That doesn't affect the need for that money. Mr Voordewind spoke on that point. The state of defence's commitment has increased to unprecedented levels, as we have made a great deal of commitments. It hasn't been shown before that the Department of Defense put away so much money. That's good to know. So it's going the right way. The Chamber has specifically asked for something that was also included in the government agreement, namely that what IenW has had for years: a budget fund should be looked at. Mr Voordewind and Mrs Belhaj spoke about this. We are indeed going to set up a budget fund. This allows us to accelerate our working methods and the process. We will inform you more about this in spring 2019. In our opinion, the establishment of this fund contributes to the continuity, predictability and planning of the entire investment expenditure. In addition, it offers the opportunity to place more emphasis on the long term. Mr Stoffer has already raised this important point on several occasions. Furthermore, the budget fund can protect investment expenditure and related maintenance expenditure from short-term problems and the delusion of the day. That is also a very important point. This will give us stability and security, including for the Defence Organisation, and can arrange investment in the long term. Of course, the Fund also has implications for management and control, for the whole budget presentation and for the establishment of our financial systems. It is still quite complicated to manage all this well, so this will not be possible in the short term. The next point may not be a good one for everyone, which is why I would like to point it out. Defense has an unlimited end-of-year margin, so we can always transfer money to later years. Then the bills will come and we'll make the payment. It is a really big step that we can announce this fund in this budget and that we are in agreement with Finance. I think it is very important to say that here. This fund helps us to inform the House of Representatives more transparently about the entire investment programme for the next fifteen years. Mrs Belhaj has spoken on this point on a number of occasions. Mr Voordewind asked whether we could transfer the money to the fund already. Of course we can't, because we don't have a fund yet. Such a fund must be set up by law, and we still have to make it. In the forthcoming budget, we want to work with a dummy so that the Chamber can actually see what it means. We can already transfer the budget because we have that year-end margin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u46	It is very good to hear that this budget fund will, at least, come to the Chamber next spring. Of course, we can't do anything with that right now. My question was aimed at the 275 million, which I see now on the budget, which is even being postponed to 2022. I wonder if that amount will end up with the Defense Department at all. Why not put this amount into the budget fund as soon as it is available? Then the DOD won't lose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u47	In that sense, I agree with Mr Voordewind that we will put all the investment expenditure and everything that goes with it, as I have explained, into that fund as soon as we have it. We are now shifting the money, because we expect spending in 2022. We'll move with other money, too. That's how we do it. With the Defence Note, but also with the budget, you can see how the investment is going, when we commit and when we have to pay bills. That's why we're shoving the money around. So the money's not gone. I do believe, however, that the fund offers more certainty. That is why we are making every effort to reach that fund as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u48	The essence of my question and probably the underlying objective of achieving the budget fund, together with D66, was to have the certainty, the legal guarantee, that those amounts would indeed be committed. But I now understand the Minister in such a way that she ultimately wants to include the money released for 2022 in that budget fund, so that it cannot run away. Do I understand the Minister correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u49	Yes, in the end, we want to put all that can be done in the budget fund, so everything that is to be attributed to it, investments that are to be saved, all of which are to be put into that budget fund. In this sense, we are not losing anything, not at the moment, also because we have an unlimited year-end margin. It offers more certainty and we can talk more easily about: what do we want to spend, how do we slide it, how do we end up... We want to make it as transparent as possible for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u50	If the Minister is going to spend money and billions on large arms systems to participate in the permanent war abroad, is she prepared to release money now that there is, for example, the 110 million parked at the Treasury, to finally conclude a good collective agreement for the staff? Staff first!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u51	Sure, we've chosen the people first. The Secretary of State will deal with the conditions of employment and also with the amount of 110 million. We are prepared to make money available for a good collective agreement. We are also firmly convinced of this, but it is the Secretary of State's portfolio; it will respond to this fact that we have genuinely done and done so in a good way at this time. But then, I think, you have to wait for the Secretary of State to come back to that point, because she will talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u52	We'll come back to that, too. Only, the minister is working on the future, the broad lines and billions. My question is why only a smaller part of the extra money goes to the staff. Does the Minister agree with me that the staff are currently furious, that a long-standing collective agreement has been cut off again and that if I am convinced that this is necessary, we need more resources for good working conditions, a good pension, a good fund for victims...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u53	Your question is clear, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u54	... and that if the money is available, it should also be wagered? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u55	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u56	We've made a distribution of our budget. We also discussed this with the Chamber at the time of the Defence Note. We have money for staff and we have money for equipment. We really have quite a budget for staff. I just want to clear up a misunderstanding. The working conditions consultation has not been cut off, but it has been suspended. This means that there is still the possibility of further discussion. Mr President, I very much hope that this will happen, perhaps I say over your head in the direction of the trade unions. I believe that it is essential to negotiate a collective agreement with one another which, as far as I am concerned, needs to be reached as soon as possible. The Secretary of State will talk about that in a moment. I would also like to correct another misunderstanding. It's not like there's no collective agreement for a long time. There's a collective agreement right now. My predecessor, Dijkhoff, came to a collective agreement last year in the short three weeks he was a minister. That collective agreement is in place and ends at the end of this year. That is why negotiations are under way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u57	I very much appreciate the fact that the Minister and the Secretary of State are working on permanent world peace. I am also very happy to hear that this budget fund is actually coming. Is there a horizon on that, too? Is that something about the next five years or the next ten years? Any sign of that yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u58	Fifteen years we've written. We want to take a long-term look at everything we've presented in the Defence Note. This is very much in line with the point that I believe Mr Stoffer raised last year, but also in debates that we have had in recent times, namely that we must think long-term and provide certainty. So we always want to look forward 15 years. That's gotta be in the fund. This is just like the roads. Of course, we're looking at what's happening at IenW. An investment for a road or railroad also requires something long-term, so you have to look long ahead. So we are actually looking at this in the same way. That also removes the misunderstanding that we have money left over. We don't have any money left. In principle, we have invested all our money, but we have commitments and have to pay the bill later. That's why that fund provides more security. It'll be easier for us to talk to you about that. Then we'll park that money in that fund. I think that will ultimately make it clearer for you what is happening. That was also the wish of the Chamber. Offering more certainty was also a great wish of the Secretary of State and me, and I am glad that, with the legislative proposal we hope to be able to deliver and deal with it next year, I hope that it will come soon. So we're going to work with each other in that way next year, in a dummy-like way. Well, Mr. Chairman. Then look forward, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u59	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u60	'Cause otherwise, we're never gonna get anywhere. I think it's very important to look forward. That's because the world is changing enormously. The immediate security environment is becoming increasingly unstable and the threat picture we see around us is becoming increasingly complex. The relationship with Russia has, of course, deteriorated in recent times. You can see that Russia is becoming more aggressive and threatening, more assertive and more threatening. The examples cited, for example by Mrs Bruins Slot regarding the Trident Juncture exercise and here in the Chamber about the cyberhack attempt at the OPCW, indicate that the Russian threat is not imaginary. You see two things. The conventional threats have not been reduced and more and more new threats are coming to us. That is also why we cannot really distance ourselves from the tasks of defence. On the contrary, we must prepare ourselves for a very large number of new threats. In a changing security context, which has also been discussed with Mr Blok of Foreign Affairs, where there is still a lot of unrest and conflict at the southern borders of Europe, Europe is now becoming more vulnerable if we do not anticipate it. Then I think it is very important that we are part of the NATO alliance. We still regard this as the cornerstone of our security policy. That is precisely what is so important, because it means that we are not responsible for safety on our own. As NATO members, we are simply members of that alliance, and together we protect our security. That's what we agreed almost 70 years ago. We commemorate 75 years of liberation this year, but we agreed on this 70 years ago. It is the cornerstone of our policy, of our security policy. It is also the first primary task of defence, the protection of the Kingdom and the alliance. I believe that the European NATO members should take this seriously. To protect our safety, we must become stronger. We need to be more employable and we need to be able to last longer. For this purpose, NATO has recently established NATO capacity targets. At the NATO summit last July, our Prime Minister agreed with the other Heads of Government to make credible national plans that reflect the commitments made in Wales to move defence spending towards 2% of GDP in 2024 and thus NATO capacity targets. These plans must be submitted to NATO by 31 December. I am also giving this to Mr Stoffer, who asked for it, in response to his questions on his motion for a resolution on multiannual plans and on the 2%. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the Chamber will receive the Dutch national plan before the end of the year. Mrs. Bruins Slot asked for that. In response to Mrs Karabulut, who is already on the interrupting microphone, I say that 2% of GDP does indeed mean that, if we want to achieve it, we should increase the Defence budget by around 6 to 7 billion. As you know, that will be a complicated matter, because it requires a government-wide consideration, but it is the direction in which we should go if you look at what NATO is asking for. We do that because we have to face a number of threats. We are intrinsically convinced that European countries must take greater responsibility for their own security. The Netherlands must also accept its fair share, to use only a good English word. Right now we're just not doing that and we haven't for years. The Netherlands is even far below the average that European allies are currently spending on defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u61	Is that all you want to say about NATO?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u62	It's about NATO, isn't it? I am now going to talk about EU cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u63	Then there is a question from Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u64	When I listen to the minister, I might think, "Goh, that NATO is powerful! It's above democracy. It states that we must allocate billions more to the defence sector." I would like to ask the Minister: what has brought us from permanent war for 17 years? In the past NATO was indeed about our defence, but now it is operating globally. What did those 17 years bring us to safety? I'll give the Minister the answer as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u65	That's unusual.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u66	It's easy for me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u67	I do that because the Minister may then become a little more concrete. That is more terrorism, more insecurity, more war, more conflict. Is it so obvious that the Minister will sign with the NATO Cross? Or should we review this strategy of permanent war and perhaps not participate in it in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u68	I do not agree with Mrs Karabulut's analysis. I have the impression that she also knows that I do not agree, because we have had this debate several times. I think that the threat at the edges of Europe has really changed. We cannot close our eyes to that. The threat is real. You yourself spoke about what the Russians, the Groe, did here in the Netherlands at the OPCW. That's a state actor who's done a hacking operation at an institute that sees chemical weapons, to see what's going on there. We must protect that as the Netherlands. That's just what happens in our country. We must act against this. It can't be that we're closing our eyes. It is truly a task of ourselves as the Netherlands to protect the Kingdom. We cannot do that alone, especially in Europe, when you look at it. We can't even go without America and the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u69	We don't need anyone without us. Above all, we need to work together, but the Minister ignores the fact that the Netherlands has been following NATO and the US for all these years, has supported an illegal war in Iraq, has been in Afghanistan for more than 17 years and that it has only become more unsafe. The services warn of that, too. If we are talking about our own security and stability within Europe, perhaps we should stop supporting all kinds of missions in Iraq, Syria and Libya. This is the way to destroy countries and then create a breeding ground for terrorism. Can the Minister respond to that? And as for the Russians...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u70	No, no. The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u71	There will be 1,700... Let me finish this, Mr. Chairman. It's a crucial point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u72	Mrs Karabulut, we agreed briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u73	I promise I'll be shorter and shorter afterwards. A total of 1,700 billion in military expenditure is being spent worldwide, of which 900 billion is being spent on NATO countries. Russia makes a 20 out of that. So as far as that military threat is concerned, defend, fine...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u74	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u75	... hitting hackers, fine...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u76	The Minister now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u77	...but please don't overdo it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u78	I have just said that we are shifting to our first main task: the protection of the Kingdom and the alliance. We're not even tailored to that right now. It is important to say that it is. I really don't agree with you on that. Look at what did happen to ISIS; we'll talk about the anti-ISIS coalition tomorrow. As you can see, ISIS has been struck back. It is a pity that they are now light again, but that work has indeed been successful. Those terrorists have certainly been reduced. You can't close your eyes to that. We think differently about how to look at the stakes in this area, but I sincerely believe that it is very important that we invest in NATO, because we cannot do so as a small country and as a Europe alone. Our expenditure must therefore be increased. Moreover, we have not been so easy to follow, because we are at the bottom of the investment. Take a look at the states: we are at the bottom. We are the fifth country in Europe in terms of its economy, but among the NATO countries we are in a position in the late 20s in terms of percentage. So Mrs Karabulut is not at all right on that point. We did not invest enough. We are currently failing to meet the NATO capacity required.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u79	The Minister continues her speech and is now going to talk about European cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u80	Yes, in relation to NATO. We see the investment in the same way. Mr. Chairman. I come to speak about Europe. As I pointed out in general consultation with the RBZ and during the RBZ, the ambitions towards a European army, expressed by President Macron and Chancellor Merkel, and President Macron's statements towards the Americans, go far too far. They are not helpful in achieving greater security in Europe. I say this in response to questions from Mr Stoffer and Mrs Karabulut, among others. We are in complete agreement on that point. Why do I think they've gone too far? The US is an indispensable ally, especially for security in Europe. So we need to keep investing in that transatlantic relationship we were just talking about. NATO remains, as far as I am concerned, the cornerstone of security policy. I would like to stress that if I am not in favour of a European army, I have conveyed the message of your Chamber loud and clearly in the IPS............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's good to say that. I am absolutely convinced of the need for more European defence cooperation, which Mrs Belhaj also spoke of in her otherwise well-designed dream. I also like that I can retire years earlier in Mrs Karabulut's dream...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u81	Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u82	Sorry, Mrs. Belhaj. Europe must take greater responsibility for its own security. I very much agree with Mrs Belhaj. I believe that closer cooperation at European level will ultimately strengthen NATO's ability to act. We are currently participating in several European initiatives, because we are in favour of those initiatives that reduce existing capacity shortages and make European defence cooperation more effective and efficient. European coalition formation in order to achieve the most desirable results is a matter for the day. I think it is important that decisions are taken unanimously in the field of European defence cooperation. It's gonna stay that way. Every step we take, we are always there ourselves, and your Parliament is also taken into account in every step. You talk about this when it comes to the strategy, usually with your colleague from the State Department. Mr. Chairman. In order to strengthen NATO and Europe, it is also necessary to shape the longer lines towards the future during this cabinet period. Mr Stoffer spoke about this. They are needed for stable funding and for the reinforcement of the armed forces. That really requires follow-up. The Netherlands must invest in Defence in order to continue to protect the security of our country and our inhabitants. So we need to invest extra, even though we just got money. That sounds really weird, but we're just getting to the first step. We're gonna need follow-up. When it comes to the follow-up steps needed to deal with the deteriorating security situation, we are looking at the NATO National Plan and also at the review of the Defence Note by 2020. In that national plan, we are specifically looking at the prioritisation of five NATO capabilities objectives. I'll just mention them. It concerns the F-35, land-powered firepower, marine firepower, Special Operations Forces and the cyber and information domain. These are the five points we are looking at. In the run-up to the review of the Defence Note, we will talk to people in our organisation and also around it, outside the organisation, to see how we can best accommodate that. We look at all NATO capacity objectives and, of course, other needs, personnel, business operations, real estate, national security, knowledge and innovation. All this is necessary as a result of the deteriorating security situation, but also as a result of changing geopolitical relations. In doing so, we take with us the existing visions within the armed forces, including the new army vision. I would also like to inform Mrs Diks that Defense will always have to make choices. Even if we were to invest extra, choices would have to be made. Choices have already been made for the current Defence Note. The focus is on personnel, the first to restore the current military force and investing in that information-driven action and cyber. Follow-up steps will have to be made again. We are therefore the first to look at the deficits and the needs of NATO and the EU and those of our own organisation. That is also what I would like to say in reply to Mrs Bruins Slot's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u83	Is that what you've finished this block with?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u84	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u85	Then there is a question from Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u86	In my contribution, I referred to the new vision of the army, which the Minister just said something about, and how it relates to that longer-term strategy that is being considered. A number of building blocks have been reviewed by the Minister. I just heard her say that these visions are taken into account. Now I've always heard: if that's said of your plan, you'll never hear of it again. Let me make my question a little more specific. Can the Minister imagine that if these visions are now rolling one by one of the presses and then going straight into the newspaper, which in itself is nothing wrong, and she is filling in all the other building blocks, including in international contacts with others and the like, that no longer fits together? Can she imagine that there will then be a magnificent army vision that no longer fits fully within that broader vision that looks forward longer? Or are those visions of the armies that are now coming to lead in what the minister can say and determine in contacts with third parties in relation to that longer term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u87	You were talking about management or direction at that point. I heard Mr Kerstens say that. Of course, there will always have to be direction, because it must fit in with the strategy for the future that we have in mind for Defence and the armed forces. There's no misunderstanding about that. I have mentioned a number of building blocks for that. By the way, it is not the case that that piece of the army suddenly appeared in the newspaper. A lot of preparation has been made for that. HCSS has been involved in this. Experts have been involved in this. We've been watching that. That's when it was presented. The CDS, the Commander of the Armed Forces, has received it. As a Chamber, you are partly invited to the preparatory sessions. You were also invited to the offer. This is part of our way of looking at more adaptive work and working differently. That fits in with the direction from above that we see for working in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u88	That is also stated in the Army's note. That is actually an effect that builds on the Defence Memorandum at the beginning of this year. The long-term perspective, the long-term vision or the review of that vision is not yet complete. You know the building blocks, but you do not yet know exactly how it will fit together and what choices are made in them. I'm a little surprised by that order. It's like there's been some homework done that you're actually already aware might have to go over later. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u89	No, I don't see it that way. Mr Kerstens himself says that it is an effect of what we have seen in part in the Defence Memorandum. In this way, all kinds of things are being worked out that we wrote down in the Defence Note not so long ago, namely in March. All that needs to be worked out. We are working on this in a planned way and to make improvements to it. That's how it fits. We may say at the end of the review: we may have to make a little other choice. Then maybe we need an adjustment. But it's just a step in the process we're taking together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u90	I would like to build on this, because I raised this question in my first term. It is clear that we will not start from scratch at the review in 2020. There is, of course, a whole structure, an international structure, and so on. That's clear. During the flow of A letters, we discussed with the Secretary of State whether we are doing the right thing. We'll order anything and everything. You just referred to that. We're ordering for billions of things. We're putting billions away. The question is, in what context do we actually do that? Reasoning from the thought that you don't start from scratch, that of course means that in the future you have to have a clear picture of what you would like to add as the Netherlands. What are we good at? I indicated all that in my first term. The question I asked was: how are you going to ensure that defence personnel can provide input from the workplace, that it is not imposed from above, and that there is confidence in the organisation, in which people can bring forward their ideas, or bring them up, to speak in those terms? How are you going to get the Chamber involved? And how are you going to involve others?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u91	We just finished making the Defense Note. As you know, we also built it with conversations. The Chamber for Sharing has also been present. We haven't quite started on the route of recalibrate. That's what we're gonna start next year. We will build that from the bottom up, and from what we see from the top up as important priorities. In the Defence Paper, we have indeed outlined a framework of where we stand and which investments are now important. We have written about people, resources and ways that are important at the moment. A number of changes have also been made in the international context. I just turned it in. There are a number of things that we are better at than others. I just turned that in, too. These are, by the way, matters that NATO is asking of us. The whole information-driven action in cyber is one of the NATO questions that lies with us. So that's where it runs in parallel. So we look very carefully at how we can bring things together. From there we look at how we want to stand for it in the future. We do that by looking from the bottom, but also from the outside inside. Last year, when making the Defence Note, I very much agreed with the Chamber that it is important to look inside with companies, but also with the men and women in our company. They also know, of course, what is important for their future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u92	Thanks for the answer. With my input I tried to indicate that I am interested in what companies think, but that is frankly not quite the route I was looking for. Because of all the things that have been and have been going on with the Defense Department, I'm sure there are incredibly many ideas in society about how to do better with the Defense Department. People like to think about it. I wonder: have you thought about it, or do you want to think about how you could involve society?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u93	I just said: we haven't really thought about it yet, because how we want it is a step after 2020. But I do think it's relevant to look at that. One of the things that matters to me, at least, is the support for the Defense Department. As research shows, this is also growing in society, perhaps because uncertainty is growing in the world. It is important that we also bring ideas from society. So I'd be happy to think about that. I don't have a concrete idea about that right now. But we also talked to the members of the Chamber about how we prepared the Defence Note. The Chamber held discussions on this subject, which we were partly associated with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u94	I'm going back to the Minister saying he doesn't want a European army. That's good. That's obvious. All this was due to the European Peace Facility, the European Peace Facility, a euphemism for a new 10.5 billion war spot. Now I want to believe the Minister, but the opinion of the cabinet is still positive. In general terms, the Cabinet supports this proposal. That is not in line with the Minister's clear words. Does she agree with me that it should be said at the moment that we do not support it at this time, provided that it is met and that condition is met?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u95	I turned it around. I did bring in the points of the Chamber and said that we are not in favour of a European army. I transferred that clip-and-clip. The German and French colleagues were also present. With regard to the European Peace Facility, I said: I do not know exactly what that means at the moment. That's what we discussed in the Chamber. I have no idea how much money it should be and what it should be spent on. I put it this way in Monday's sitting: we need to know much more before we can agree to it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u96	But the formal position is in all the documents and in the BNC-fiche that the Netherlands, which the minister basically supports, with all the comments she makes. I would like to ask the Minister whether she agrees with me that we should formally reverse that. Or should I ask the Chamber for a ruling on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u97	There's another I.B.Z. Council on, I think, December 4 or 5th. We have formally said: we do not yet know what it is, but as it is now, we can... That's the BNC chip, all right. We are positive about the fact that in Europe we are thinking about innovation, about changing the way we look at the distribution of resources. We are in fact positive about the fact that more goes to the defence sector, for example Mrs Belhaj mentioned it to the EDF et cetera. But we do not know enough about the European Peace Facility to agree in advance. That's how we put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u98	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u99	And the High Representative will still have to back up all those points. We can still do that, because it is only 2021 that we are talking about here. A lot of points have been raised. I would now like to move on to the questions and loose points about cyber. Mrs Bruins Slot, Mrs Karabulut, Mr Stoffer and Mr Öztürk asked questions about this. How do we look at the deployment of cyber and the deployment of cyber soldiers? The Dutch armed forces, of course, always operate only on a valid legal basis or an international mandate. That's important to say. At present, Dutch units are part of NATO's advanced military presence in Lithuania. This is a measure which is reassuring for the Baltic States and also for Poland. That's to discourage Russia. Offensive cyber operations don't fit in with the nature of the presence there at the moment. A question was asked about this, about the eFP. There are no separate rules for military action in the cyber domain. The Netherlands is working internationally to enforce the application of international law to the cyber domain. We spoke there as well. Using the Article 100 procedure for cyber operations fits in with that set-up. That's how we look at it. Then I look at the amendment to item No. 33 that Mrs Diks has submitted for additional investments in the cyber domain. I have just told you that NATO is also asking us for additional investment in the future. I would like to respond to the amendment as follows. We agree on the importance of the cyber domain for the Defense Department. The digital threat is increasing, you have mentioned examples of this and will only increase in the future. We also discussed the Russian cyber operation in the STPD's annual report. We also discussed the need for additional investment. We have been investing in the capabilities of the digital domain since 2012; it is good to say so here. That's for the STUDY, for the DCC and for the Kmar, among other things. That's exactly what we do because cyber is our priority. I think your amendment is a little premature at the moment. So I would ask you to at least wait until spring to do something about it, if we talk a little more about the cyber strategy and perhaps the national plan that we should send to NATO. I believe that cyber should not be seen as an isolated issue, but in the context of the wider efforts of the defence sector. We're investing quite a lot right now. There is also 20 million extra to cyber in the coalition agreement. Occasionally, there is about 3 million from the occasional money coming from JenV to us. Your amendment means 25 million structurally on top of that. If I pass that on, it means some 375 million from the investment period that cannot then be spent on matters such as real estate and clothing for staff. I would therefore strongly advise against the amendment at this time. I would rather talk to each other about the strategy further, and then look at how we look at the future together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u100	Mrs Diks, on that amendment to item No. 33.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u101	It is nice that you are giving a detailed account of the reasons for the amendment and the way you look at it. I'm just thinking about what wisdom is. What I'm sorry about is that when you make the bill, you say that you can't spend money you spend on cyber on real estate or anything else. Of course, that's partly true. By the way, it's only a bit true, because the money that was available was of course for employership, for something else and for cyber. So that was a lot of stuff, if I may put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u102	Security comes out, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u103	Safety, yes, excuse. I forgot. So you're actually asking me to hold on to it. I'm just thinking. Technically...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u104	Well, you can't do that with an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u105	No, you can't keep an amendment. So I'm just thinking what I can do with it. Then I can move it in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u106	Move in! Move in! Move in! Move in! But I'm not asking you to hold it. I am saying that I must now seriously discourage it, and I would ask you to discuss it in greater detail at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u107	Yes, because you state that you consider the importance of cyber to be very important, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u108	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u109	You've written a whole cyberstrategy. What I actually expected with that cyber strategy wasn't, as it is now, some sort of inventory of what's going on today with cyber, but a plan of action. So I was a bit disappointed in that sense. What I was sent was a little too thin for me. So I would have expected you to do more, but you say that is not yet on the table; I cannot deliver it now, but I will be able to deliver it in a few months' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u110	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u111	I have to think about how I will deal with the amendment. But do you have the impression that you had finished the grand presentation of the cyber strategy with an extra 2.5 million and an investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u112	That is a misunderstanding, because with that cyber strategy, we are spending the extra 20 million from the coalition agreement. I did not think that was correctly stated by Mrs Diks. Of course, it's about the 20 million we're investing extra, and then it's about a number of millions going to more research-related goals. In addition, we can invest in additional cyber projects at this time of the additional occasional money that came through JenV about 2.8 million, I think. So I didn't think your representation of what we're doing was right. But I do think that the issue is important; we do share that. That's why I'm telling you that I have to seriously discourage this right now. We cannot live with this, because it is at the expense of our other priorities. I only mentioned two. I'm sure you care about real estate, too. We just need this money for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u113	To conclude on this point, Mrs Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u114	Yeah, rounding it up. I have one more question for you, because you have indeed done the framing very well. So that 20 million was actually part of it in the Defence Note. You already indicated that you would spend extra money on cyber. What I found so disturbing was that with that money, you could only perform one operation. If you look at 2018, I assume we're not doing anything until January 1st, because we've already done that one operation. How's that going in practice? I'm saying it now a little unfriendly, but the intention of my amendment was to help you because I think you...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u115	Can you speak through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u116	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. Because I think the minister should do more about cyber defense. I think it is a mistake not to want to spend that extra money now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u117	We disagree on that. I can't say anything about operations in this area, so I'm not gonna explain anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u118	I got a little confused at first, because it was only about 20 million. I thought we agreed to $49 million in the coalition agreement. I do have the overview with me now. It is ascending 35 million in 2019, 42 million in 2020 and then 49 million and 49 million, divided between different ministries. It is true that the Ministry of Defence has a series in the Defence Note, namely 12 million, 16 million, 20 million and 20 million. The cybersecurity note is an integral note. So it seems to me that the 20 million dollars from Defense plus all the different parts of those different ministries are ultimately reflected in the cybersecurity note. So the picture is 20 million, but it's actually just 49 million divided among different ministries. What does the Minister think?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u119	I'm talking about the money from the DOD. That actually amounts to 20 million. That's what I'm talking about. That's what the Defense Cyber Strategy is written on. JenV is coordinating for that. That ministry is responsible for the larger budget. We are of course contributing to the cybersecurity strategy. We're just gonna be a part of that. In our note, it's about our own money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u120	It's always good if you write down in your own notes what your own money is. The picture is now as if it is the only part of cybersecurity, while this cabinet invests for 49 million and it is an integral mission. I just wanted to check it out, because I almost thought it was only $20 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u121	Oh, no, not at all. Mrs Belhaj is absolutely right that it is part of a much larger whole. We need to be much more aware of what is happening and that far too little is happening about it. We talked about that, too. Moreover, Mrs Diks and I do not disagree on the need for much greater awareness. This is about the elaboration of our own part, but it fits into the larger framework. I should advise against the amendment before us. Mrs. Bruins Slot had another question about the digital vulnerability of the spaceside. She's right to ask that question. In the Defense Cyber Strategy we've created, we haven't broken down cyber threats by land, air, sea or space, because cyber is boundless. That's how we look at it. That manifests itself in all domains. In the new Defense Cyber Strategy, attention is given to the digital security of our information command systems, even if they are in space. So we are not overlooking this point in itself, but perhaps we ourselves should pay more attention to this than we had in the past. That is why we have written something about satellite security in the Defence Industry Strategy, for example. So I'd like to combine those two things. We are not losing sight of this. Mr Stoffer asked about Trident Juncture, the great NATO exercise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u122	I will come back to it anyway, because land, sea and air are named separately in the Defence Strategy in a row, but cyber, at least space, is not mentioned. In the answer given by the Minister, it seems as if the cybersoldiers are only used for breaks in the military domain, while here it also refers to the third main task. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u123	I agree with you that it should also be on the third main task, so the wider side. You did dress it up with bridges, with the control of what can be turned off and turned on. In this sense, I agree with you that we must also pay particular attention to this. But I've qualified it as something limitless because it occurs everywhere. In that sense, I do not think we have so clearly broken down these threats.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u124	I deliberately ask this because we tabled a motion last year because we wanted cyber-soldiers to be able to be used as part of the third main task, i.e. in the event of social disruption. Is the Minister now saying that if society is demolished, that our cyber-soldiers, for example, can be put to work for cyber attacks in space?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u125	Just like other soldiers can be deployed in social disruption....................................................................................................................... We'll look at it that way too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u126	Mrs. Karabulut, maybe it's okay if the minister finishes the cyber block. Then we can see if any more interruptions are needed. The Minister went to a question from Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u127	I think I did give the answers on cyber ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u128	Also to Mr Stoffer. Finally, on this subject, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u129	To clarify, does the Minister exclude offensive operations from the Article 100 procedure? That's one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u130	But this isn't really about cyber security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u131	It's under the cyber block. The Minister has talked about this. So I'll get back to you on that. It's really cyber security; offensive cyber attacks for cyber security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u132	Okay, good. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u133	I have said that we will have to operate within the rules in force internationally. That's how we look at cyber operations. This means that we rely on the application of international law to the entire cyber area. Using the Article 100 procedure fits in that sense in our way of looking at cyber operations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u134	But that wasn't my question anyway. My question is whether the Minister excludes offensive cyber operations outside the Article 100 procedure. If they do not exclude them, how will we be informed about them or, more importantly, who controls them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u135	I do not rule it out entirely, when I think about it now, because sometimes it is necessary to act quickly and to commit. You can always check us for that. The operations will always take place on the basis of military advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u136	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u137	No, Mrs. Karabulut, you've already interrupted twice. You can come back to this in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u138	But I just wanted to offer the Minister, because I see her looking too, to come back to this in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u139	I can come back to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u140	Or she can explain it in detail later in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u141	Yeah, yeah, it's okay. Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u142	Yeah, I just want to ask you how. You say you can control us. But what if it's a covert operation? I have not been able to check that money has been given by the cabinet to terrorists in Syria. That's what Nieuwsuur and Trouw have discovered. We have seen that EUR 25 million went to a number of groups in Syria. I haven't been able to check that out. I don't know if your partymates did. So my question is: how can we control you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u143	There are operations covered by Article 5. Of course, we do not send Article 100 letters to the Chamber. That is also the answer to Mrs Karabulut's question. You must always control us as you control us. Some things you can control in public and some things you don't; we have other gremia for that. When it comes to Article 5, i.e. the whole defence of the NATO territory, we do not need to send Article 100 letters. Cyber operations can, of course, take place in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u144	The minister says at WNL On Sunday: we are in cyber war with Russia. She says you can control us. What if you were a member of parliament? Then how would you control your cyber war with Russia and how would we know that? What information, with whom, with what authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u145	We have discussed this issue extensively in the context of the STUDY annual report. I did indeed reply in the affirmative because this was a state actor who carried out an operation on Dutch territory, against an institution for which we must guarantee safety. That's a big deal. I said that we should be aware that it is happening. In that sense, I have used the term "war," not as we normally do in a declaration of war or covered by legislation. I explained this in the debate on STUDY. I did not take back any of that, because I do think it is relevant to look at it this way, because it is behavior that should not be possible, of a state actor on Dutch territory.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u146	But how to check...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u147	No, we've agreed on two interruptions. This subject can be further discussed in the second period. I want the Minister to continue her speech with the last questions she was going to answer. We still have a ruler and we also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u148	I'll do the final questions soon. I was with Mr Stoffer, who asked about the evaluation of Trident Juncture. I went to Trident Juncture myself, like the Commander of the Armed Forces and some commanders. This great NATO exercise with nearly 50,000 people and 31 countries has been very valuable. Of course, we don't have any evaluations yet. They take place at several levels within NATO, but we also look at them as the Netherlands. For example, we've been looking at transport. How'd that go? What have we learned from it? What have the Dutch units learned from it? There will therefore be a major evaluation and a Dutch evaluation. The lessons we learn from it will be implemented in future exercises. We will therefore use it for this purpose, but also simply to improve everything we do in cooperation with each other. Then there are the PESCO projects. Ms Belhaj asked if PESCO projects would qualify for European funding by default. That's not true. PESCO projects are usually initiated from a country and are then implemented by Member States. It is often up to those Member States that are involved in funding this and also to see if they want to contribute to it. Sometimes a PESCO project may indeed be eligible for funding from the European Defence Fund, but it must meet very strict conditions. For example, the project must be in a development phase. Mrs Belhaj also had a question about the European Training Facility. A number of training initiatives have been launched under PESCO. One of them is the European Union Training Mission Competence Centre. The Netherlands is already participating in this PESCO project. I think it's an interesting point you had. Apart from these projects, the Netherlands can explore whether there are countries that are interested in setting up such a facility or exploring whether an existing facility in the Netherlands or elsewhere in Europe can be expanded to create more European cooperation. If there are countries interested, we can submit this proposal as a PESCO project. Mrs. Bruins Slot had a loose question about social service. We still have the ambition to give young people an interesting and sensible time in the Defense Department. I really think that young people at Defense can do something in return for the Netherlands. But they can also learn something about themselves. Those two sides are for me. I think that will help them for the rest of their lives, and so will we as a society. I'm talking to the operational commanders to see if we can do something about that ourselves. At the moment, projects that we have submitted to VWS were not approved. Of course I can discuss that with the U.S. Secretary of State, but that is the situation. Then the veterans and perhaps first the Invictus Games, about which Mrs. Bruins Slot and Mr. Bosman spoke. I am extremely pleased that in 2020 we were able to bring the Invictus Games to Holland in the year in which 75 years of liberation is commemorated throughout the Netherlands. I share your enthusiasm and your curiosity. I have spoken extensively with the team who has now been to Australia and have been to their last training. I went with the team to a theatre performance by Erik Krikke, who has PTSS, and saw what that did and how important it is to involve the environment, the home front. That is a really important point. In response to your questions, the main location will be The Hague. I'm thinking part of it together with Rotterdam. That might be nice for Mrs. Belhaj again. No, sorry, not in Leeuwarden. The organizing committee already uses a sounding board group, because there is a foundation for which athletes, friends and family are present. It is the intention of a kind of expert panel to carry out a survey of former participants, because that is what you were talking about. Many volunteers are needed and we will indeed seek them from the broadest possible group: veterans, reservists, current staff. We're looking at that in a broad sense. Maybe it's good to talk to each other about that sometime. When it comes to 75 years...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u149	However, a question from Mrs Bruins Slot about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u150	I'm pretty sure that the whole of the Netherlands wants to volunteer for an event like the Invictus Games. That's so appealing! Of course, there are a lot of sports associations that have to do with the organisation of this kind of big events. Is there any contact between the foundation and NOC*NSF or, for example, the Dutch organisation Volunteering to tap into that other source of volunteers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u151	I don't know. I'll assume so, but I'll check it out. I have an appointment with former General De Kruif next week and will bring this point right into that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u152	I am pleased with that, because there are sports associations that also spontaneously indicate that they would like to contribute to the Invictus Games. If that relationship could be established, it would only be good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u153	I totally agree with Mrs Bruins Slot. She also had a question about involving veterans in "75 years of liberation." There is a project organisation and we are now looking at the extent to which we want to support the celebration of 75 years of liberation in the broad sense. This could be done in different ways, because there are, of course, regional and national projects. I'm sure veterans will get a place in that too, as is customary for commemorations and celebrations. I will also discuss this with the Veterans Institute, the Veterans Platform and other veterans' organizations. And you know that there are many of them; we are still working on the governance of the veteran organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u154	A small detail, but 75 years of liberation is of course in two parts. The southern part was liberated in 1944 and the northern part in 1945. So there are two years of 75 years of liberation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u155	That's absolutely true. Mr Bosman is right about that. He also began the commemoration of the Battle of the Scheldt. That commemoration will take place on 31 August 2019, next year. Of course, it's gone north from the south. It is also interesting to analyse how this movement went over land and that is why the project organisation working on this is looking at all those provinces. I also agree with Mr Bosman that the Battle of the Scheldt was an important battle in World War II. Antwerp was already liberated, but the entire Scheldt mouthing was not yet liberated. And that is what finally happened. The National Committee 4 and 5 May is the umbrella organisation responsible for the affairs around 75 years of liberation and that is also what Defence has asked to participate in the commemoration of the Battle of the Scheldt. We have promised His Majesty Evertsen for a fleet survey and international partners have also been approached for participation in the fleet survey. There will certainly be a military orchestra and we are currently looking at how we can further contribute to that. The programme is now taking shape under the guidance of the National Committee 4 and 5 May. I think it is still nice to say that in the context of 75 years of liberation, the NIMH from next year onwards, I think Mr Bosman himself said something about digital liberation newspapers. The battle for the Scheldt will of course also receive extensive attention. Then Mrs Popken had another question about the KNIL veterans. Mrs Popken's question is not about the KNIL veterans, but about the Ambonese KNIL soldiers, who lived under the assumption that they were not entitled to veteran status if they were not Dutch but stateless. That is wrong, because the Veterans Act provides for this. They are therefore veterans within the meaning of the Veterans Act and are entitled to recognition and appreciation, and, where appropriate, they are also entitled to the care provided therein. That's often very important, too. The financial obligations towards the KNIL's Ambonese and Moluccan ex-military are not a matter for us but for the ministries of BZK and VWS. What we have done is to offer the military in question a reception at the Igk on the Zwaluwenberg. The awards were also awarded there. In our policy, therefore, we certainly pay attention to those components of care and everything that can be provided for this by the Veterans Institute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u156	I understand that the ministries of VWS and BZK are leading in this, but I would like to make an urgent appeal to this minister to take it up together. The case has been dragging on for so long! I've had the pleasure of meeting some men myself. They're fat in the nineties. I'd love to, but the odds that they're still there for years, of course, aren't there. That's why I'd say speed it up and pick it up together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u157	I will, Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with Mrs Popken. I've also spoken to a number of men. We cannot say how long they will live, and it is certainly important that they receive the right attention, the right appreciation and the right recognition. But also the right care, huh? If it's necessary, they should have it. So I'll do that. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kerstens and Mr Voordewind asked questions about informing the home front. A lot of loose questions have been asked, Mr. Chairman. Last year, we made very explicit reference to the elaboration of the recommendations from the home front check investigation. A whole new information brochure has been developed for the home front aftercare questionnaire. I looked at that myself. Communication and information on the mission from the Defence Organisation Homefront are also better tailored to the needs, as has also been requested. In addition, the home front check was used in the evaluation of the entire veteran policy. One of the recommendations of that evaluation is that the need for attention and information from the home front is not limited to the period around the broadcast. That is why we have started with a sort of in-depth inventory of the wishes of the home front. We are also looking at the current provision of services, as you have also requested. As usual, we will inform your Chamber about this when we write the Veterans' Note. I myself spoke with a number of people from the home front organisations on the Mission MAX home front day, where the Secretary of State and I were both present. At that time, for example, I spoke a little more extensively with the "mommies on a mission." You can see that the expectations and needs of different groups are really different. I also paid attention to this during the Veteran lecture. We shall come back to that in the Veterans' Note. Mr Bosman asked questions about accident investigations and the learning of mistakes. In the WHO Staff, we have already discussed this a little more extensively. I made a commitment to deliver a letter on 14 December, four days before 18 December, when the AO is a security policy. That's what we're gonna do, because that's the deal. Then we can discuss with each other the subject you have put forward in response to the letter. I share what you said, as I told you back then. You have mentioned the Detective Inspector for Security and the investigations into the serious incidents in the Defense Department. It is true that serious incidents in the Defense Department are being investigated by the Security Research Council or by the Security Defence Inspectorate. I expect, as we have now designed it, most of it will be done by the Department of Security, because we have just started it. Of course, we will keep you constantly informed of how this continues. You had another hesitation. Perhaps there are some things that go wrong but which are not so serious that the OVV or the IVD look at it; that is what I think you said, if I understood correctly. In that case, the Commander of the Armed Forces or the Commander of the Defence Unit concerned may, of course, set up a committee of inquiry. I'm not sure if that's what you were referring to, but otherwise you'll just have to report it in the second term. Then, almost at the end, I would like to say something about the MEA, which Mrs Diks, Mrs Belhaj and Mrs Karabulut spoke about. I must say that I was somewhat surprised by the signals that came out here and by what I read in the newspaper, because I firmly believe that we have had good administrative consultation with Amsterdam. I have spoken to Alderman Kock myself a number of times, and I also attach great importance to good administrative consultation. Mrs. Diks knows from my previous life and from her own previous life how I attach to it. I don't recognize the signals I read in the paper that you're transmitting. They are also not known at the RVB that I have checked as much as at the project organisation. In that sense, they have not reached us. I'm not really in favour of talking to each other through the paper myself. Then what's going on? We have indeed decided earlier this year in accordance with our announcement in the Defence Note that we would keep some barracks open. Some of them have been mentioned. We want to maintain a larger part of the Navy complex in Amsterdam than was originally foreseen. We discussed this with Amsterdam and communicated it extensively, including with the new college of mayor and aldermen. On 19 June last we made an appointment with the municipal council. We then made agreements from the Defence Department with the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf and the municipality for the further joint development of that naval site. These agreements were agreed jointly on 9 July. On 10 July, the College of B and W approved these agreements. The next day they were discussed in the Council Committee for Spatial Planning. On 11 July we informed the Chamber. In the meantime, all parties involved, i.e. Defence, the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf and the municipality of Amsterdam, together with the Atelier Rijksbouwmeester, are in good consultation on the implementation of the agreements. Yesterday, the working party was together. So now we're working on what that's all gonna look like. Why did we do that? We had two arguments for this: the security situation and visibility. We made an independent assessment of the security situation in Amsterdam. The capital is of course regularly the scene of large-scale national events, which require not only the ceremonial presence of Defence, but also security by special units such as the BSB, NLMARSOF and DSI. That clearly requires something. That's one. Secondly, we wanted to remain visible in the capital and that location is the only one in Amsterdam that can be easily reached via air, water and land. That was also an important argument. So that's what we've been talking about. Now we are actually working together on the elaboration and I firmly believe that this is going extremely well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u158	In this case, we seem to have a completely different interpretation of the words 'one-sided' and 'extremely good'! It is clear that we in the Chamber should always talk about matters that we should not have to talk about in the Chamber at all. I regret that with some regularity, but apparently that nasty fact occurs every time... You'd say, "Shut up."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u159	Yes, indeed!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u160	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u161	But of course the President does not want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u162	No, I didn't mean to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u163	No, I'm half agreeable with you. The sad thing is that we have to talk about some of these things all the time. That's what's bothering me. You can say that you think things are going well, but nobody in Amsterdam has that feeling. So as a member of parliament, I'm not buying anything for that. People report to me that something is going on, that in order to put it on his Frisian side, it is "going wrong on the head," that agreements are being broken and that people are stunned wondering what happens to them now that their hundreds of millions are being beaten out of hand. You're looking at that differently. I'll bet. I'll take that from you. The question is, how do we proceed? In my opinion, Amsterdam's administrative sacrifice is really not something that the Ministry of Defence should be working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u164	I'm throwing these allegations really far from me. If I make one appointment with the Amsterdam College at my table in my room on three appointments, so with the relevant alderman I read in Het Parool, Mr Kock, in the presence of the acting mayor and officials from Amsterdam, it is for me: appointment is appointment; a man a man, a word. If Mr Kock thinks that the administrative arrangements have been violated, he should not report to the Chamber, but to me. Because I have an appointment with him. He doesn't have an appointment with the Chamber. I have just verified today whether he has checked with the National Real Estate Company, which is also at the table with the Director-General for Real Estate, Mrs Annet Bertram and with the Secretary of State for the Interior, who is responsible for this, Mr Raymond Knops. He didn't call in there. He didn't report to the DOD. He checked in with you. I don't know what you think of orderly appointments and administrative traffic. I find that absolutely not orderly, in no way. If Mr Kock has anything to say, he will report to us, not to the newspaper, and not to the Chamber. I just have an agreement that we're working on. So I'm really throwing it far from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u165	I don't have to stand up for the board in Amsterdam. I am concerned with the attitude of the Defense Department towards other governments, in this case the local authorities. That's what I'm worried about. It's about the explanation. It is also about communication, about the tone that is chosen. If you've experienced it differently from your point of view, I understand that it's awful that it gets into the paper this way or that it's presented this way. I call on you to consult with him soon or to invite him and to enter into the conversation, because there is of course no point in telling each other one's own truth from a trench.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u166	I really want to say something about this, because you really are making a caricature of what has been agreed. Suppose I have an appointment with you, Mrs. Diks. I know Mrs. Diks has been alderman in the past. If I, as a minister, have an appointment with an alderman, just signed, if you've brought it to your college and if it's been on the council committee, then we have an appointment, right? For example, if I have an appointment with you about the airport in Leeuwarden and you think there's something wrong with that appointment, you'll come to me, won't you? Then you're not going to walk to the room, are you? Then you're not gonna talk through the paper, are you? I find that really unorderable. You cannot now tell me that I have not acted in an orderly manner or that we have not acted in an orderly manner. I don't think this is an orderly procedure. There hasn't been reported anywhere today... The officials of Amsterdam working together in that working group on the elaboration of the agreement we made on paper, I have mentioned the dates. I don't know why you insist there's something wrong with us. I'd say, Mr. Kock, if you have anything to say, you're welcome. But I'm not gonna invite him. Then he'll have to report to me himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u167	No, I'm sorry, Mrs. Diks. We made a deal, and you've all asked me to be strict. You may return to it in second term. I have such a feeling that Mrs Belhaj is going to ask a similar question, but we do not know that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u168	However, of a slightly different nature, about the role of the House of Representatives. I do not recall having anything to say about a review of that Marine Establishment Amsterdam. I am actually looking at it as a Member of Parliament, apart from the good relationship you like to have with Mr Kock, a good alderman by the way. I would like to know from the Minister what the cost of the interim breach of the contract concluded in 2013. If we use that breach of contract, is the DOD at risk of becoming the owner of all the real estate on the property, including restaurants? What are the total financial implications of a review, including the decision to renovate a number of things? Is the Minister prepared to repeat the urgency and usefulness and necessity, which are the subject of various stories, and otherwise not to take any further steps in the meantime with regard to the review until we as the House of Representatives have been informed about this review?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u169	I'm counting five questions in this interruption. It's almost a debate in itself. Minister, I'd like a quick answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u170	I wrote it down. We have already indicated in the Defence Note that we were thinking of keeping more locations open than the six or seven we mentioned in the Defence Note, because we have changed our way of looking at real estate and also looking at our presence in different places. At the moment we have also estimated money for this in our budget. Then there's the question of what was estimated. The budget had not yet estimated revenue and entered it for the disposal and sale of MEA. That was because these estimates depended heavily on the zoning plan that Amsterdam had to make. We just own all those buildings right now, still. We are still the owner of everything that is there, including everything that is now used by companies and so on. Those buildings are rented by us, or by an organisation of the municipality of Amsterdam for a number of years to people who use them. We did not have any estimates of this, because we did not know exactly what that would bring. We have looked at what is important to us. That presence is important to us in terms of security. That has changed a lot in recent years. We think it is very important that we are also present in the capital with DCPL. That stays at the MEA. Of course, we need to invest in this, just as we need to invest in the alloy. We are now in the process of making plans for the Rijksbouwmeester and the Rijksatelier. That's what we're making estimates for. Others have moved. We'd keep a footprint there anyway, because the military would stay there forever. That is a point I should like to clarify here. Then what are the consequences? There's a less large part that we originally planned to dispose of. So we have a slightly lower sales revenue, although the price of the land and buildings may have increased over time. We don't know. We will look into that and we will only be able to do so after the finalisation of the plans the working group is working on. You're saying, until then, don't you want to do anything? It is not as good for Amsterdam as it is for us to do nothing anymore, I tell you. Because we now know where we are, we look with the Rijksbouwmeester to see exactly how we are shaping this and with Amsterdam we see how many houses can be built. That's a lot of them, because they're looking at it quite differently. I verified that today. Um. Don't do anything anymore, that was your question. You don't want to do anything anymore? That is not possible, because I also want to hand things over to Amsterdam. I think I'm going to have a huge fight with Alderman Kock if I don't do anything at the request of the Chamber, because I intend to transfer a number of buildings to the municipality of Amsterdam as of 1 January. The municipality of Amsterdam can then rent it temporarily until it has made a zoning plan, until it has an idea of what it wants to do there. Then we're gonna start this new building together, together, with each other. If you would like to do so, I think that this is quite unwise, so you are actually hindering the municipality of Amsterdam in the development of that MEA area. So leave it to us, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u171	Then Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u172	When I came into the Chamber, I was confronted with another file. That's the Doorn and Vlissingen file. Then you're gonna go back a little bit. Then you see the decision-making and then you see what the responsibility of Members of Parliament is. More has been said about such a decision than about the decision you think you are making without explicitly informing the Chamber about the usefulness and necessity and the financial consequences, even if you say that you have not yet booked the land sale. What if it's $200 million? Then you just throw away 200 million for something for P&D people, who can also go to other places in Amsterdam. Mr. Chairman. I asked you not to take any steps with regard to reconsideration. All steps that Amsterdam agreed with the Ministry of Defence in 2013 can be started as soon as possible. Even if it is only because this cabinet has an assignment to build 75,000 homes and there should be 1,600 homes at that place, initiated by Amsterdam. I do not think I can explain this and I really do not want the Minister to take any further steps in relation to the review. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to table a motion on that, and I wouldn't think that was necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u173	Then the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u174	Mr. Chairman. We informed the Chamber by letter of 10 July that we intended to do so. I just read that to you. The Chamber is therefore well aware of this, through Chamberpiece No. 143 (33763). That is what it says, so the Chamber is indeed informed about this intention. We have concluded an agreement with a local authority on this. You're assuming something you don't have a basis for, because I don't know how many homes there will be. The municipality of Amsterdam itself did not yet know how many homes there will be. So I'm just sticking to the deal I made with the Amsterdam College. That agreement has been communicated with the city council and with ourselves. We are currently working together on this in a working group. I will, of course, inform you of what exactly comes out of that. I cannot say that at the moment, because we are working on exactly what is going to happen. That's what I can do and we'll just do it together with Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u175	Mrs. Karabulut, before you speak. We have not agreed on the number of interruptions, but you have already placed two interruptions in a row five times. That's ten. That was the total number of interruptions to the Economic Affairs and Climate budget with two rulers. The Secretary of State hasn't even started yet. I therefore appeal to some moderation on my part if it could be done. Is this question crucial for your second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u176	Well, Mr President, I would like to inform you that I have many questions for the Minister and much less questions for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u177	I'm gonna hold you to that. You understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u178	Secondly, this could be my last question to the Minister if she answers the other unanswered questions, one unanswered question, which I am simply assuming. But I'm looking at you, so when you say, man, don't...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u179	Then we'll wait for the minister to finish. If I really have to, maybe I want to get over my heart. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u180	I said mine about Amsterdam. For me, it's a man, a man, a word, a word. You understand. I have a few more questions. Mrs Diks had questions about the Caribbean and international cooperation. The UK and other European countries are exploring ways of improving cooperation in emergency aid and the fight against illegal smuggling, crises and disasters. By the way, I liked the fact that you at least had a question about the Kingdom and the Coast Guard, because it has now really been incorporated into the Defence budget, so thank you for that. We, as the Kingdom, organised a side event at the United Nations General Assembly. There I personally called, with the Prime Ministers of the three countries, for more regional cooperation to improve maritime safety. That call fell into good shape. We're looking at how we're gonna follow up on that. I have said to my French colleague, Mr Parly: the European Intervention Initiative, which I have a lot of questions about, as you know, we can use it to perform together in the Caribbean during the hurricane season, for example, on Saint Martin. Mrs. Popken mentioned national security. That's our third main task. We are acting under the authority of civil authority. In consultation with JenV, mayors and senior officers, we also do so in the preventive sense. There are actually quite a lot of examples of what Defence is already filling in on. For example, we support the Brabant Zeeland Task Force in controlling undermining. I myself attended the presentation of our people who have looked at what is happening in certain districts in Tilburg and Eindhoven in an intelligence based way. A lot more data came out of that than they normally get. We want to continue in part the cooperation we now have with the army. In the summer of 2019 we will review civil-military cooperation together with JenV and then we can talk about it further. Mr Bosman had another question about the conflict prevention team. The conflict prevention team is still in the process of being set up, but it is already active in the development of policies to coordinate, intensify and support relevant activities where necessary. In fact, it is a team that should above all be a good point of contact for other organisations active in the field of conflict prevention. So that's how we create a point of contact. Think not only of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, but also of non-governmental organisations. They'll be able to use that conflict prevention team. This is one of the priorities in the Defence Note and the Integrated Foreign and Security Strategy. In order to avoid any misunderstandings, it is not a military unit or anything else. I got the impression that's what you thought. It is a team of very limited size that has to operate as a kind of contact point. We're thinking less than ten employees now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u181	It's not getting any clearer, I'll be honest. There's a quarter of an hour maker, but it's not quite clear to me what's happening. The answers given by the Minister were also included in the reply to the written questions. Can the Minister give us an example of what they're doing? Then what is an activity or problem that we need this group for? What's the pressing point of this club picking up because it's gonna stay on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u182	I will see if we can give a good, concrete example in the second term. It is about coordination, but I think it would be easier to do so in the second term. Mr Stoffer has asked for dual-use innovation. We announce additional investments in research in the field of new technologies, artificial intelligence, robotics, 3D printing. This will give a strong impetus to Defence research in the coming years, which will focus both on the spearheads in the Defence Note and on connecting with new technologies. Defence's operational tasks are leading the development of these new capabilities. Civil investors as well as top sectors policy and the National Science Agenda can facilitate this. We have also made a strong effort, together with JenV, to get security in the top sectors policy. Indeed, industry will have access to the knowledge developed under conditions by working with Defence and knowledge partners. In the technology projects, this cooperation between Defence, knowledge institutions and companies is an important condition. If the knowledge is just available on the civilian market, then the DOD will use it. That is in response to Mr Stoffer's question. Then I can conclude with Mrs Diks's point, which I very much agree with: the restoration of the armed forces is no longer a party political matter. That's what you started; yes, you said it! I would like to underline those words, Mr President, because I think it is very important that we all work together to restore the armed forces. We have had many examples of this. Freedom is certainly not self-evident and uncertainty in the world is increasing. Our men and women deserve to be in front of them. That's what the Secretary of State is going to talk about: staff and conditions of employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u183	But Mrs Karabulut still has a very pressing question, which is relevant for her second term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u184	An unanswered relevant question for the second term, Chairman. Uncertainty is not taken away by investing billions more in weapons equipment or participating in a permanent war. The readiness and employability of the armed forces is a problem. But my question was whether the Minister was prepared to end the contribution in Lithuania to improve the readiness, but also for much needed relaxation in the relationship with the Russians? I know the Minister loves Cold War rhetoric, but wisely we should also be looking for relaxation, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u185	The question was clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u186	The question was clear to me and the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u187	But I'm putting on some facts. The Minister himself writes that "the pressure on readiness for the remaining units of the army remains present" as a result of this exercise. We're dead, by the way. It was impressive, but what we are doing there is not clear to me either. But apart from that, we would stay a year. The Minister now extends that until 2020, semi-permanent. So I would simply like to have a serious, substantive answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u188	It is a relevant contribution to the first main task of Defense, the protection of the ally side. That's why we're there. There is great uncertainty in the Baltic States. They ask us every day in the meetings: you will still be present in our countries, given the threat on the Russian side of the border? What are we doing there? You've been there yourself, so I was hoping the members of the Chamber would know what we're doing there. We're practicing there. This also partly contributes to the preparation. In fact, the Secretary of State is going to talk about these issues in such a way. So it is important that we practice there with the men and women. Some of us are there in the context of the deterrent. In this way, we actually contribute together to the first main task of the Defense Department. We have chosen to stay longer in order to better plan in the longer term. That is why we have chosen to stay not for one year but for two years. This was also an explicit request from NATO and the Baltic States. They're really worried about the threat at their border. I very much hope they passed that on to you when you were there. We are there to help them, and we are doing so because we think it is important and because we do not think it is self-evident that our security and that of the whole European continent is guaranteed, given what is happening in Russia at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u189	No, no, no, Mrs. Karabulut. I'm sorry, I really don't. You have asked a question on this subject twice. You may continue to do so in second term. The Minister has finished her speech. We're gonna suspend for three minutes. Then we'll continue with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u190	The next item is the Defence budget for 2019. We are in the process of responding in the first term on the part of the government. I call the Secretary of State for Defence. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think that after this brief suspension, the House will be filling up with the spokesmen in no time. For many of us, that suspension was urgently needed. I think it is important to continue where the Minister stopped responding in the first term. In its first term, the Minister has given our eyes to what we have found, where we are now and what we want for the future. I think this was a good time to see what we have seen in the past year about involvement in the defence sector and everything that lies ahead. I think the discussion was right about whether it was just a money issue. Of course, money plays a role. As Mr Kerstens pointed out, you also have to do with culture, attitude and how things have been done. Mr Bosman stressed this in his contribution in the first term, for example when it comes to safety culture. I will deal with this later in my speech. What the Minister and I have seen in the past year is that not only Defence as an organisation, but also the whole Chamber is always proud of our military and a commitment to Defence personnel, the military and civilian personnel. That is something that is constantly being called attention to. I will mention a number of issues in my reply. I think that we have already discussed all these issues with each other in recent weeks; whether it is the major material projects or the staff, both discussed in a legislative consultation, or on a number of other issues. We will also continue to discuss safety in December and a number of investigations that have been carried out, such as those of the Gibels Committee. As the Minister pointed out, I will at least deal with staff. The subjects put forward by the Chamber are working conditions, retention and recruitment, diversity and inclusiveness, and participation. I'll bring it up. I will also address the issue of security, with associated employability and resources. A number of questions have been asked about the F-35, submarines and ammunition. They will be included, including real estate and manners. I would like to refer in particular to questions raised by Mrs Bruins Slot on the powers of commanders and such matters. That's the build-up. It's linked to the construction of the Defence Note. We have driven from people, resources and manners. It's not for nothing, as the Minister said, that we started with people. Some of the members have already mentioned it: without our people, we do not have a Defence Organisation. Without people, we cannot contribute to peace and security, not only in the Netherlands, but everywhere in the world. You've also brought up what our people deserve. Mrs Bruins Slot and Mr Bosman started with the appreciation for the past year, but also in recent years, for the commitment that has been made. Indeed, our staff have been called upon to do a great deal. We have seen that the resources have fallen, but that demand has not declined. There's just been a greater appeal to the Defense Department. A lot of our staff has been asked. For the Minister, myself, the Secretary-General and the Commander of the Armed Forces, it is essential that we work on a new working conditions agreement and a new pension result. A number of your Members have asked questions about this. We had a working conditions agreement until 1 October this year. We have achieved a result together with the trade unions earlier this year in terms of pensions and working conditions. Unfortunately, this has not come to a result or a real agreement. I think it is important, together with the minister, the sg and the CDS, that we achieve a result quickly. That is in the interests of our staff. As a result of oral Question Time, I have previously shared with you in the Chamber how important it is to establish a new pension scheme. The current pension scheme is unfair. You pay a lot of money and you build up very little. If you're 30 or 35 and you're leaving DOD, you're gonna have a huge retirement hole. You'll never build that up again. With all the tax regulations that are now in place, this is a problem every year in the month of January. The pension contribution will then be fixed. It's actually only getting higher. If you continue to do so within the current system, the pension premium will only increase. The pay slip will therefore get worse every year in the month of January. That is also why we have indicated that we consider it extremely important that the trade unions should quickly return to the table in order to establish a new pension scheme for our military, and that is also about working conditions. Unfortunately, the meeting was suspended yesterday. We find this very disappointing, because we think it is important to make speed, because we have made a great deal of use of our staff. I therefore hope that we will soon be able to sit down with the trade unions again in order to move towards clarity about a good, balanced, fair pension scheme, but also about good working conditions. We also see room to take those steps. I also think it is important that we should be able to do so in the short term. In any case, our commitment is to be able to do so before 1 January 2019. We'll keep trying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u192	The Secretary of State rightly said that a few months ago there was a negotiated outcome, both with regard to a new collective agreement and with regard to a new pension scheme. That whole package has been massively rejected by the people of Defense. They don't think that's enough. Now there have been negotiations last week, and that is what I call it. I would think: if you've gotten an incompetence for those two parts, then you're going to renegotiate both parts, so that's the collective agreement and that pension scheme. Now I understand that as far as the pension scheme is concerned, the Secretary of State is actually putting it on the table: I will keep the pension scheme we have agreed on on the table, even if it is part of that rejected package, and if you do not say yes to it, all the military will find that they are facing a worse pension scheme as of 1 January 2019. Did I get that correctly? So wasn't the whole package negotiated and the Secretary of State said: this is just the deal and although the people rejected it, I don't care about it, this one should be used to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u193	No, that's not right at all. I have said, on behalf of the organisation, on behalf of the Minister, the Sg and the Commander of the Armed Forces, that it is in the interests of our staff that we arrange a new, fair and balanced pension scheme as soon as possible and that we also come to a new working conditions agreement. I think everyone wants to see an increase in wages, for example, on 1 January. And there are plenty of other topics you're talking about at the table. The point is: what do you fall back on if you don't get a new pension scheme on January 1st? That is a point of discussion. Unfortunately, we didn't get out of that last night. That has nothing to do with the new pension scheme. That has to do with what you're meeting on January 1 if you don't have a new pension scheme yet. My starting point, that we have also put it on the table, is that it is in the interests of our staff. I want there to be no ambiguity as of 1 January 2019, not about the pension arrangements, nor about the pay slip. I don't care how it's arranged. That's the proposal I made. The unions have made a different proposal. The ABP is making another proposal. All I want is for us to make sure it stays the best for our staff. Unfortunately, it did not reach agreement on this yesterday. But the door is always open to further discussion, apart from a completely new pension scheme and a new working conditions agreement, because that has not been discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u194	Defence has today communicated that there is a willingness to be temporarily suspended for two months, in my view, to compensate for the effect of implementing the basic scheme implemented by pension fund ABP. Defence does not mention it itself in its communication, but the trade unions say that this is a limited period, which is also linked to the entry into force of that rejected pension scheme on 1 January. Don't the unions tell the truth? Is that what the Secretary of State says?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u195	I can only vouch for what I myself communicate, for what I communicated yesterday and until now. My interest is to ensure that a new pension scheme is put in place. I want to get to the table on that as soon as possible. I think that's in the interests of our staff, too. I have just explained to you why the pension scheme needs to be changed: you pay a lot of money, but you do not build up much. That is precisely why we need to discuss this with each other as soon as possible in order to reach new agreements. There must therefore also be pressure, also in the context of a new working conditions agreement. Everyone's waiting for what happens on January 1st. That is the statement we have made and I will continue to make, because it is in the interests of the staff. As far as I am concerned, this does not apply to the discussion on which term you are referring to. As far as I am concerned, it is about ensuring that, as long as there is no new pension scheme, there is clarity for the people, both on the pay slip and on the pension arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u196	You will understand that, in view of the pressure exerted on you by the Chamber last week during the WHO staff to enter the negotiations with an open eye, we were very disappointed this morning that these negotiations did not lead to the desired result. I hear what you're saying and yet I don't quite understand it. Because you heard the Chamber, you heard the unions, and you heard the members of those unions, didn't you? You generally hear the Defense personnel, don't you? Why are you so obstinate? I believe that you have received an incredible mandate from the Chamber in order to reach a good working conditions agreement. I'm not gonna sit here dimming the details in such an agreement. That's not my job, and that's not my role. We have given you several times: work out a good agreement. Maybe that should cost money; I don't know. It could also be rearrangement. If you need money, I'd like to hear it from you, because I think there's support within the Chamber to settle that. It won't do us any good if you bought billions of iron right away, but there are no people who can drive, ride or navigate it. That has been discussed several times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u197	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u198	Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u199	Secretary of State, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u200	But we totally agree. I have heard you very clearly, but I have said, perhaps on your behalf, but above all on behalf of the Minister, that we want to reach a new working conditions agreement as soon as possible. We want to achieve a new pension result as soon as possible, because it is in the interests of our staff. I have to say that you need two parties to do that. You need two parties, from the employers' side as well as from the employees' side, to come to the table with each other. Yesterday the consultations were suspended because of a specific point. That wasn't even about the content, but about the question: what do you do if you don't make it on January 1st? What are you gonna do with each other? Unfortunately, we have not come closer to that, but that does not mean that we cannot. The meeting's adjourned. As far as I am concerned, the importance for our staff is very clear. That is what we are in favour of. This importance is a balanced, fair pension result and a new working conditions agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u201	Yeah, exactly, a good pension system. I'll take that as a sure thing. I am therefore truly sorry that my motion on the allowance was rejected this week, because that is really a method of dealing with something very quickly on 1 January. I understand that this is complex throughout the wage building, because this is true of the Empire, and that is a very complex matter, but you could have done something very quickly with that allowance. I am therefore truly sorry that this motion has not been accepted. Again, I'll give it to you: pick it up, take an open look at it. And if you do not manage to reach agreement with the unions yourself, try to achieve a desired effect as soon as possible with a mediator and perhaps with a different tone or with another language. Because what's happening now is really death in the pot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u202	You don't have to call me to come to the table with an open mind, because that's exactly what we want. The same thing was said yesterday. Moreover, I believe that both sides have the same interest and the same effect, namely our staff. We're both working on that, on both sides. The point is to get back to the table as soon as possible to see how we can work this out. I see your appeal as well, but you do not have to call me or the Minister again. We share that interest and it is very important that we do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u203	Yes, and yet we have to note that the staff is furious. Press releases have also been issued from the unions, which state that, although the Secretary of State says that the staff comes to number one, it does not then deliver. So what is the Secretary of State going to do to get the unions, the staff back to the table? I understand that you and the minister have written a letter to the staff, but that staff is furious. They see that if the Secretary of State continues to refuse to intervene with the ABP, their pension will deteriorate by 1 January. With that, the Secretary of State himself shuts the door...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u204	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u205	...for that new pension scheme. So is the Secretary of State going to deliver or is she really on a collision course with the Defense personnel?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u206	I want to come to a good result together with unions. That is the starting point in the best interests of our staff. That's what we stand for, and that's what we stand for. Together with the Minister, with the Commander of the Armed Forces, the Secretary-General and all the Heads of Defence, I explained the suspension of consultations. I started with the importance of the staff. Continuation of the current pension scheme is not in the interest of the staff. Because I can tell you one thing: on January 1st we're going to notice that on the paycheck. The proposal made by the ABP is not in the interests of the staff either. This is going to mean that the pension arrangements are deteriorating. I don't want both of those things. We don't want it. That is precisely why I would like to make another proposal. I only note that we did not agree on this last night. That means you have to consult each other about the temporary arrangement. This is separate from the discussion and discussion that we want to enter into with each other about a new pension scheme and a new working conditions agreement at all. I said yesterday on behalf of our organization that the door is always open. We need to have dinner together as soon as possible. The unions have suspended the talks, but the door is open. As far as I am concerned, we shall return to the table as soon as possible to ensure that we reach good agreements for the short term and the long term when it comes to both the pay slip and the pension scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u207	I think the Secretary of State has the key. In any case, it locked the door yesterday because it did not provide sufficient guarantees for a good arrangement in the future and for a good collective agreement and good working conditions at the moment. I would ask the Secretary of State whether it is true that the staff will decline if the Secretary of State continues to maintain this attitude and therefore there is no agreement before the end of the year. This is partly due to the action of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u208	I'll hear a repeat. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u209	Can the Secretary of State confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u210	No, because Mrs Karabulut really does misrepresentation. I reported what I brought in on behalf of the Defense Department last night. I've indicated what we want. We want a future-proof, balanced and fair pension scheme for all military. We want a good working conditions agreement. We want that as soon as possible, namely before 1 January 2019. If that doesn't work, you're gonna have to reschedule the pension scheme. That will have to be done by the unions and the employer. The unions had a proposal, of which I say soldiers notice on their pay slip. That is why I do not think that is a good proposal. What the ABP wants, I don't think it's a good proposal either. That is what people notice when it comes to pension claims. So I'm gonna make another proposal. Unfortunately, we did not reach agreement on this yesterday. But my commitment is still aimed at ensuring that I also started with the fact that there are good schemes as of 1 January 2019, both for pensions and working conditions for the short and long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u211	Good. The Secretary of State continues her argument, Mr. Christmas. You have already placed two interruptions on this subject. I have now heard the same explanation from the Secretary of State three times. You may return to that in the second term. The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u212	I am going to continue with a number of issues that have to do with this. They also asked about that. Mr Bosman asked about the amounts still in the supplementary item. The Minister was just explaining. As part of the coalition agreement, we have actually established three blocks of additional resources. One's on combat support. We have already said in the previous budget that it is in helicopters and other things that you have already authorised. Other things are on additional investments in equipment. A third envelope is on both cyber, good employership and impact. If we want to spend business, we need to get it out of the supplementary mail. As long as no expenditure proposals have been made, the money cannot be spent. In this Chamber, I do not go into all the details of collective bargaining and the finances involved. But I can say that some of the money you see there and some of the other budgets will of course be used for collective bargaining. And I can also say that these funds will really be spent, including those that will be in an additional item and therefore not anymore. Mr Öztürk wondered what we were spending our money on. Also, he doesn't want a submarine, because a lot of cases have been solved. Perhaps it would be good for Mr Öztürk to know that we are spending about half of our budget on staff, for example on salaries, pensions and benefits. Another part of our budget we spend on our equipment. This is not only material in terms of aircraft or vehicles, but also in terms of IT, real estate and, for example, things that we had a debate on two weeks ago, such as clothing. These are all things that are necessary, precisely to provide a pleasant working environment for our military. It is extremely necessary and important that we invest both in our staff and in our equipment, because we must ensure that our staff enjoy their work. We see that also when we look at what people need to do the job well. First of all, many Members of this House, I shall come back to that in the context of conservation and recruitment, but also in good material terms. If you're working with outdated equipment, whether it's IT or the CV90 or the Pantserhouwitser, you just get irritated if you don't have enough spare parts if you think it's really necessary to replace something. A number of Members have asked me what I am going to do about conservation and recruitment, among others by Mr Stoffer. At Mrs Belhaj's request, we sent a letter about where we are now. We have drawn up a plan of approach conservation and recruitment in which we look at a number of traces of what is needed. On the one hand, we need to ensure that the inspection process is started as quickly as possible when people sign up and that cooperation with the RCs is improved with the VeVa students, for example by aligning the content of the teaching package with the internships at Defense. Diversity, for example, lies in the plan of action, but also in the need to make agreements with employers. For example, three years before the end of the phase 2 contract, people are told that they cannot stay in the Defense Department. Then they must have guaranteed work at another company. This is how we do all kinds of things when it comes to conservation and recruitment. We can see that some measures are working very well and some are slightly less. In the Defence Staff legislative consultation we discussed that we set it up in this way because we do not want to make a lot of policies, but rather want to implement in a very practical way what is now working and what is not. Last week, during the legislative consultation with Mrs Belhaj, I indicated that we also have three major reforms. One is a pension system. The other is a flexible staffing system and the third is a new wage building, including allowances. Mrs. Diks also mentioned the pay building from 1917. I do not know many employers in the Netherlands who are still flexible in this respect. So you see where the tension is. I indicated in the debate last week that the reasons for people's departure are the right ones to work below their level, so that you are not being challenged, but also the lack of career prospects. We really need to look again at how we shape the career paths within the Defense Department, what career opportunities there are. Are you sure you can be an expert? Do you have to do the rotation in all kinds of ways? How can you appreciate things like that? I think it's important to do those three things. We have just had the debate on working conditions and pensions. Then you can see how difficult it is to come up with a reform. That's gonna be tense every time. A flexible staffing system sounds quite simple, but in a very large operational organisation it will be difficult for the individual. Because of what the organization asks, it will be a difficult puzzle. These are three things that will have to be taken up together with the unions. In the longer term, therefore, these three are matters of conservation and recruitment. Reforms and a number of very practical things are needed to ensure that we can retain our staff. I have to tell you, the recruitment is going well. The number of appointed soldiers is also better compared to last year, but one point is the maintenance of our staff. With a attracting labour market, we always know that our people are wanted, because where do you learn discipline, responsibility and stand? At the Department of Defense, so employers attract our people. But we also see that the lack of career prospects and working below their level cause people to leave because they want to be challenged. We'd like to pick up that glove, along with the unions. Mrs. Diks asked what "vacant functions" means. In the reply I mentioned the difference between 'vacant functions' and 'vacancies'. What does that have to do with the functioning of the armed forces? In the employability reports, I, together with the Minister, have indicated what it means. If you have a lot of vacant functions, that means work pressure. If you have a lower filling rate, you have to accept at some point that you have to stop a unit or that you have to merge a number of units. For example, in replying to Mrs Popken's parliamentary questions about the Corps of Command and the Marines, I indicated how we deal with them. Sometimes it's temporary and sometimes it takes longer. That's exactly why we don't want that. On the contrary, we want employability, permanence and basic readiness to go up. So we try to make sure that we keep people with us in every possible way. For this, the working conditions are extremely relevant, as are the career prospects, but we must also ensure that we attract enough people. I have also dealt with Mr Stoffer's questions. Mr Bosman's question on phase 3 contracts. Your question was how that actually works. In the personnel report, you have seen the figures on the people who can now move on to phase 2. With a lot of Defense components, the principle is that if you function properly and there is space, you are basically offered a phase 3 contract. We don't keep track of how many people don't get it. That's not in the system either. However, you can conclude from the figures that around 57% of the military were not offered a phase 3 contract in the first half of 2018. You yourself know better than anyone that we're dealing with an organization that delivers combat force. We're gonna ask for that combat force, too. We've managed to get the organization back in such a way that not everyone stays with the Defense Department. That is, of course, why we have organized Phase 2 and Phase 3 contracts. But I also indicated to you that I think we should look again at a flexible staffing system, to ensure that you keep the right people with you and offer your career perspective. Mr Bosman also asked about the planning horizon for career planning. It's true that we're usually only looking forward to one function. The ambition is to be able to look much further. Mrs Belhaj has also strongly argued for it on several occasions when it comes to diversity. In a letter to the House, the Minister and I said that it starts with a breeding pond and has a different way of thinking about people's careers when it comes to management development. Especially when people are in a certain phase of life, you need to be able to handle it flexibly. That means something for your career perspective. These are matters that are done on a small scale. I know, for example, that the Navy is really trying to see how the shore functions are filled out. You want to go wider, but that has big consequences for the organization. We will have to start small to see what works and what does not, but this too is the fact that the major reform is in the adaptation of the flexible staffing system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u213	It also asks for some of the staff consultant or the staff officer, as 57% does not receive a phase 3. Of course I understand all things as "operational deployment ready," but if you can think one, two or three functions ahead, you can also take another turn and say: maybe no more operational tasks, but with a piece of course guidance, training or know what else we can keep someone for another function. I suppose it has changed in the meantime, but in the past the P-section was not always so flexible to say: can we find anything else? It was soon: you are not sufficient, so leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u214	I do not recognize that, but I do know some cases where that feeling has been left. I have recently been on the theme day of all the P-officers and career coaches, and I have clearly seen that everyone who sat in that room had the ambition to make sure that things were going better. However, it has been pointed out that a number of adjustments are needed to the rules that have been adopted with each other. I have therefore asked them to come up with concrete suggestions. A number of things are really in the system. As I said, the flexible staffing system is one of them, but also all kinds of other things that hang around it. We've probably come up with a few things ourselves. I've seen in the Navy that they're just trying to assume it's the one who's involved. What can we do with each other? At DOSCO, the part with all the support we offer within the Defense Department, I have seen that one is looking at a specific group, such as the people who work in security. They're a little older on average. How can you retrain them and use them in a different way? They may be a bit more at the end of their careers, but we are looking in many places at how we can use small concrete examples to fill that out. That's already happening, maybe not good enough, because I just indicated why our people are leaving, and it needs to be better. That ambition is absolutely there, at least among the people who carry out this work, all those career counsellors and staff consultants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u215	The Secretary of State will continue her speech, but not after Mrs Diks has asked another question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u216	I was just waiting till the end, Mr. Chairman. Whether it is the end of this debate, I do not know, but it could be. I asked a question about these vacancies. Is it true that the vacancies of the parts that have been removed no longer count in the vacancies and that this de facto increases the filling?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u217	No. I explained that we have vacant positions and that it is up to an operation commander to determine whether it is a vacancy. You can fill out a vacant position in a different way; you know that people are ready to fill it out. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u218	I have to think about it, because I have only one interruption to this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u219	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u220	I'm gonna make a really long sentence. Suppose it was a little different, I'd find that a very perverse incentive. I believe that we, as a Chamber and you as a director, should also be aware of the precise situation. It is not a question of getting good grades, it is a question of getting a good idea of the organisation. I'll put a second question to it right away. That can be very short. From the flow from phase 2 to phase 3, you have indicated what it is all about, and we know it in itself. At phase three, we now also see outflow on the rise. I find that very disturbing, because those are the people on whom we have placed our hopes in the defense. How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u221	In the previous agreement on terms of employment, we agreed that we want part of the outflow from phase 3. We have also made premiums available for this, precisely to ensure that we get through. Because of a number of choices in the past, which can really be justified at the time when people had to leave, a lot of people have been deliberately chosen to be placed in phase 3. So you actually lock up the organization, because a part of the group that was a little younger and just came after it, couldn't grow. That is precisely why it was agreed at the time: let's see if we can make premiums available, so that people themselves take the initiative to go outside. In any case, I can tell you that an attractive labour market will help, because then people will also take the initiative. As far as I'm concerned, that's okay if you think after that: I'm gonna be a reservist or I'm gonna be back in Defense. That is also why we have said in the context of the plan of conservation and recruitment: you also want to realize this alternating current with each other. If you ask for an understanding of these filling rates, I understand that, because it is not just about the filling rate either. That is also what we are looking at together when it comes to quality in the image of the information we have, because you also want to know about the quality of the people who are there. So a filling rate an sich doesn't always say what. In addition, you can of course also perform your tasks in a different way, for example by working with reservists or working together in the framework of the adaptive armed forces. Of course, we are also looking for a way to fulfil our tasks in such a different way that we can also use knowledge institutions and business, for example. For example, in transport we now work together with a transport company. Our military work at that transport company if there's a peak there. But that also applies to the other side: that transport company does our tasks when there is a peak with us. You say: we have different peak moments and how can we do that to each other? You don't see that in a filling rate, but you can do your job. So a filling rate doesn't say anything, and that might make it even more complicated for Mrs Diks. But maybe she can at least take it out that the figure doesn't say anything about what consequences it has. I did tell her: if it goes down very badly, then you probably have to make a number of choices, because it is structural for your commitment, but not just that, also for your continued ability. I had not yet come to the end of the staff block, Mr. Chairman, even though Mrs. Diks thought so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u222	That's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u223	I'll move on quickly, Mr. Chairman. Mr Voordewind also had questions about the transfer of money for staff. The Minister has just indicated what is going on with the investments in equipment. We have an unlimited end-of-year margin for this and within the framework of the Defence Fund we are also going to look at whether we can include the conservation plan that is also in line with the lifecycle cost approach that I believe the Chamber has taken over completely. This does not apply to human costs. Then we simply have the budgetary system that the whole government knows. But there is no structural underrealisation. Mrs Bruins Slot asked me about the middle-sum problem in the previous budget. Well, we're looking at it. That is why I spoke a little more emphatically about Mrs Diks' question about filling. You have the permanent formation, but we also do part of our efforts by hiring, reservists and other forms of cooperation. Those are things that you simply pay out of your personnel costs in the context of deployment. So it's not like there's any money left you can use. There are no signs that we will have that money at the end of this year. I say that, should Mr Voordewind perhaps have given that impression through the texts. Then there's the point of diversity. Both Mr Öztürk and Mrs Belhaj asked. Mrs Belhaj has, I think, for the past three years, but at least in the year that I have experienced her as a Member of Parliament on this dossier, she has constantly drawn attention to this. I think it's fair to say so. In the previous debate, the Staff legislative consultation, she made another appeal. What happened to the collaboration with Rotterdam, for example? That's her own example. I was there last Monday and we made an agreement with the municipality of Rotterdam about 100 guarantee jobs in technology in Rotterdam-Zuid. We'll see if we can expand that further to make sure that you make young people with a different background interested in working at the Department of Defense in a different way. I have also spoken to a number of students myself, and unfortunately, Defence is often still an unknown employer. People still think you only have the fighting power there. So one doesn't realize that we just need drivers, doctors, nurses, cooks and security guards. In filling that out, there really is an opportunity for us. In the policy plan Diversity & Inclusiveness, you have seen that we are looking at how we can implement this in a practical way, including with the networks, for which Mrs Belhaj also asked for attention. We'll see if we can give them a role for recruitment and for publicity. They do that on a voluntary basis. They also do it with passion, has been my impression in the past year. It is important that we try to be more diverse by another culture as well. Mr Öztürk mentioned closed culture. He referred to the report of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. You have also seen the report of the Geebels Committee. There is a closed system. That also has its advantages, as we have exchanged, but we are very well aware that we need to ensure that we have an open view. In response to the Giebels Committee's report, I will come back to you on how we are going to do this in practice. In the policy plan Diversity & Inclusiveness, you have seen how we can implement this along the seven tracks that we want to follow and which relate to recruitment, cooperation and regulation. We still have some real steps to take, and I know that you will keep us on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u224	I hope we're all gonna do that. The PVV also wants more diversity, I understand, but well. It's the culture that makes sure some people don't apply. That's one. It is also very important that the speed at which diversity is achieved is achieved. In recent years we have heard a lot from ministers, including the police and other policy areas, that there are trainings, courses, weekend trainings, programmes and so on. But in the end you will see at the end of the day that the result is unfortunately bad and remains. So the question is whether you can actually show a few actions that make society think: wait a minute, here's really going to change; I really need to get in, because this is the organization where I want to work in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u225	I think the culture of Defense can be a very nice one, too. That's why, fortunately, a lot of people apply to DOD and want to stay there. There is the camaraderie and the connection. We want to hold it. But we also want to become more diverse. This must be done in a practical way. In this Chamber we have had the debate on quotas before. We don't feel much like that. If you ask the people themselves if they want to be adopted on the basis of quotas, the response is no. You want to be hired and you want to work somewhere because of the fact that you matter, that you do good work and that you are judged in that way. We see that we have to organise it in a different way, because in the traditional way you do not reach all people. So we try to look at recruitment in a different way. I mentioned the example of Rotterdam-Zuid. By working with the rocks there, by making them known and by saying that we offer a guaranteed job, we also attract other people. In this concrete way, by showing your face and by standing on festivals, we show that Defense is more than the images you sometimes see on TV or in American movies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u226	I've also worked in the world of diversity. I have done something in the past for other organisations when it comes to diversity. So I've had quite a lot to do with that. The point is: you will not be able to use such examples. The predecessors of yours have tried to do the same. The point is that the grey man's culture, the culture of the men who hire and judge people or send them away, must be broken. We need a new culture. The story of "you don't fit in the group" or "your behavior or the way you want to do it doesn't fit in with the group" must be broken. For that you need actions that you can show: at the moment you are with us, you can stay with us, because with the culture of "you don't fit us, so you have to leave" we have broken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u227	I try to sum up what Mr Öztürk says, but I do not share his assumption. On the contrary, I see a lot of people joining the Defense Department, who want to work there, who feel at home and who are proud of it. They don't want to leave at all, as I just said, because they feel so connected to the organization. But I also see a lot of young people who don't really know what Defence stands for, who actually don't know that they can do a lot of beautiful things at that very beautiful organization. What do I want to do in terms of diversity? Everything. If you want to make sure you get out, you just have to be there. That means you have to be in schools and at festivals. But it's also a long-term issue. When we look at female generals, for example, we have had a debate on earlier with Mrs Ploumen, you see that you need a breeding pond for that and that you first have to make sure that women know that they can just work in the Defense Department. 75% of Dutch women still think that Defense is only for men. So you've got to get some publicity first. Then women sign up. Then you have to make sure you pick out the right women, who can then grow on. That is true in a broad sense. That takes a long time, because it's not like it works right away when you say, "I want so many people in that place." No, it doesn't work, as we've seen in the past, even with the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u228	The Secretary of State continues her speech. Are you at the end of the block of people now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u229	No, because I was still at co-determination. As the Minister pointed out, very specific questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u230	But I understood that there has also been a WHO!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u231	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u232	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u233	Well, questions have been asked, and if I don't answer them, I'm gonna see some MPs on the Interrupt Microphone saying that their questions haven't been answered. Mr Bosman asked about participation and involvement. I think it is good to note that things are going well in many places. We see that the professionalism of participation has increased. A few years ago, we carried out an evaluation which showed that. You only know the examples of where things sometimes don't go well, as recently in Vlissingen. We have discussed these examples in this Chamber. So that's where you have to make improvements. I would point out that it has nothing to do with unwillingness, but sometimes with time pressure, with speed, wanting to make quick decisions. Sometimes it is also about the understanding between the parties or simply about the fact that, for example, a commander does not know the rules exactly. It is sometimes such a book that you need to know exactly how to apply it. A constant focus remains, therefore, that we are looking at how we can improve it and how we can better support the commanders in doing so. They are the interlocutors. I see a lot of commanders who do this very well and take it very seriously. They're doing very well. We are trying to continue discussions with the unions in order to see how we can do this in an even better way, precisely in order to respond to Mr Bosman's follow-up question as to what role the unions have in the reorganisations. It is primarily in the area of participation, so the unions are supposedly in the backseat, but the interaction must be good. You have to make sure you manage the participation properly, so that the process can go well. Reorganisations are not part of the negotiations on working conditions. However, suspension by informal consultation in the working groups negotiating working conditions may have the effect of slowing down the formal detachment of the reorganisation, slowing down the projects. I also talked to the Chamber about the GrIT project. We hope to start special forces soon, Socom. Those are trajectories where this could play. That's something you need to think about. We do not want that, because everyone wants colleagues quickly and everyone wants to be able to go through that change quickly. That is why we are looking at a number of pilots to see how we can speed up the reorganisation process. We are no longer in a time of shrinking, but of growth. We have done surveys among employees to find out what they need to do their job well. One of the points that scores very high is colleagues. So people are waiting for new colleagues. This is often in an extension, in a different way of organizing. That means a reorganisation decision. The current process is sometimes too slow and too rigid. Everyone gets annoyed, so you don't end up achieving what you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u234	Co-determination's been in the DOD for a while. I hear the Secretary of State say: they are very thick books with a lot of text and the commanders do not all know the rules. That cannot be an excuse for a head of a service unit responsible for the consultation. He should know the rules, though, he doesn't even need the rules if he's doing good consultation. That's the way it used to be. The excuse "sometimes speed has to be made" means that you need to involve participation earlier. It can never be that we have to make speed and therefore skip participation, because then you will certainly lose all speed. I can give you that on a note, I'll tell the Secretary of State. How can the Secretary of State come up with the argument that some heads of department do not know the rules, when we have been working for 20 years to strengthen and strengthen participation within the organisation and also the responsibility of officers training and, in fact, to strengthen all training there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u235	I've indicated that it's not unwillingness, but it happens sometimes. That is my observation. I have also indicated that things are going well in many places and that I see that commanders are doing very well. It's not just about participation. We have also had a discussion with each other before, for example on reintegration policies. We've laid down a lot of tasks and responsibilities with commanders. That's what I'm talking about with the book. It looks not only at participation, but at many of the rules and procedures we have agreed on. Honestly, sometimes you can't even blame a commander for not knowing exactly all the rules. This is one of the things one should know, so I'm not trying to find an excuse. For example, in the field of reintegration policy, we have seen that we really need to take additional steps in this regard. I wrote in a letter of inquiry that we have an alert system for commanders: the law gatekeeper goes in, know that, you have this obligation. Of some of these, we will have to see if you will have to do so in a number of other areas. I see willingness and desire of many commanders to fulfil this role with participation in a proper way, precisely for the very reason you mention. If you do it in good consultation, you have a good working atmosphere and you come forward. But sometimes you have to follow the formal rules. I have just given an example where there has been a lot of informal exchanges, but not formally. Things like that just have to be in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u236	I can see two differences. There are legal deadlines and legal pathways to reintegration, but in the case of participation you can do a lot of things in good consultation without having to regulate it legally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u237	That's right, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u238	My second question was: what is the situation with the anchoring of knowledge about participation on all kinds of training courses, both influx and secondary Defence formation, the higher Defence formation, the KMA, the KIM and such institutions, in order to make the importance of participation more transparent, more beautiful and better, namely that it is also good for the organisation and is good for your personal development?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u239	You address two different aspects: the development of participation and what we give our people when it comes to training. On the first aspect, I will come back in the second term, because I am not ready for that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u240	Fine. The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u241	Then I want to go to the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u242	There is still a question from Mr Kerstens about staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u243	As the Secretary of State said, if I forget a question, I'm sure a Member of Parliament will come forward to remind me of it. I have put three, but to reassure you: I think that a very brief answer can be given. I started my contribution with a quote from the Defence Note: "First, we are going to invest in our people. We want to restore their trust in the organisation, especially in order to preserve them for our organisation." I asked you how you feel about it. Did you invest in your people first? Has confidence in the organization been restored? And do you manage to keep your people for the organization? As far as I'm concerned, it can be taken off with a yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u244	It is not a simple yes-no question, because there is a separate answer for all aspects. After we have taken office, the Minister and I have seen that a great deal needs to be done. The Minister also addressed this in her term. That's in a lot of areas. You rightly said that it is not just about money, but also about culture and attitude. It is precisely for this reason that we have said that we should start practically. You've seen that in the Defense Note. We make numerous investments that relate to both the environment of our staff and the staff themselves. Important elements in this are, for example, a new pension scheme and a new working conditions agreement. There aren't any right now. I hope to be able to achieve that, because this is an important step. Then there are other elements that are important. For example, Mrs Bruins Slot mentioned the Wi-Fi on the alloy. In the previous legislative consultation, I also referred to this as the square metre of the military. Close to people making investments visible. Sometimes that doesn't happen fast enough, for example when it comes to the real estate portfolio. It's also on things like clothing and combat boots. We also had a debate on this. That's what's being invested in. Investment is being made in all these areas. We sometimes want to speed things up. Sometimes it's with us. We shall therefore admit that right here in the Chamber. Sometimes you need others, in many areas when it comes to the human agenda. Let me give you some examples. The personnel system and the retention premiums are all matters that we need to agree with the unions. That conversation is taking place. We're sitting around the table to do that. For a number of other things, we need to work together on this, as far as trust is concerned. I know that the previous Minister has often mentioned this in debates. She always said that a unit can be stopped in one day, but building it takes time. The same applies to trust. You know that saying: it comes on foot and goes on horseback. So it takes time to build that up. We're gonna have to show you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u245	Unfortunately, it wasn't a yes or a no. Then I will take two of them very briefly in one question to the Secretary of State, Mr President. Trust goes on horseback and it comes on foot. Does the Secretary of State have the idea that this confidence at the moment, for example when we look at the situation surrounding the collective bargaining negotiations, is in the process of slowly returning on foot or has it stepped on a horse and disappeared on the horizon? The second is just a very simple question. Is it true that fewer people have left Defense in recent years or is the back door still wide open, for example because soldiers cannot stop if they do not agree with the conclusion of a collective agreement, but can, of course, leave the organisation out of discontent?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u246	As far as confidence is concerned, I have said that it takes time to realize that. The Minister also stated this in her reply, but I think we have already appointed Staff in the legislative consultation that we see that we are in a valley and that we are in the process of climbing out. That's right at a time when the Minister already gave it to him in her first term with extra money. I've always compared that, even here in the Chamber, to a house you don't pay attention to for years and don't do any maintenance, but where people live. That has effects, and you're going to have to invest in them. We do, one step at a time, but it hasn't been solved in one go. A number of things are important in this respect. On the one hand, we must ensure that working conditions and pension schemes are in place and, on the other hand, in the square metres of the military, but also in the equipment with which we work. We have to make sure that the work is done in a good way, so the good missions and the good exercises, and enough people, so sufficient staff next to you, enough colleagues, and good equipment with which you can work. Those are the points that are necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u247	No, Mr. Christmas. You asked two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u248	But I didn't get an answer, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u249	Yes, I understand. Then you can ask again in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u250	I would like to point out that we are talking about 60,000 people who have been put first by the rulers and by the Chamber. I'd be happy to return to it in my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u251	Yeah, that sounds like a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u252	But then I expect some flexibility from you, because I have one minute and 48 seconds left for that second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u253	That too, how much speaking time you have, is an agreement that was not made with me, but with your group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u254	My group will have no problem if I take a little more time, because we are talking about 60,000 people waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u255	That's up to you. You can arrange that with your own group. Mrs. Bruins Slot, about the staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u256	One of the things the Secretary of State also points out now is that it needs to be better regulated on the square meter of the military. The commander has a very important role to play in this. It is then also a question of giving the commander more financial and human powers to deliver tailor-made work so that, after listening to the staff, he can act better and not get caught up in the bureaucracy that Defence can also be. Was the Secretary of State gonna answer that in this block or will it come back later?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u257	Later, in manners.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u258	Then I'll wait, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u259	Very good. Then the Secretary of State will now continue her argument with the material part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u260	Security, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u261	Oh, sorry. Then I didn't pay attention. Very important, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u262	That's very important. In her contribution, the Minister already mentioned how we look back on the past year and, above all, how we proceed, and that security is an important issue. That's where we're gonna have to take some big steps. An organisation that brings safety must also be safe internally. We have informed you of how we intend to do so. You yourself set up a visitation committee for that purpose. Mr Bosman has emphasized and rightly pointed out what is needed to achieve just culture. On the one hand, you want to make sure that things that go wrong are dealt with and on the other hand that people keep reporting things. I was told by a number of Members that there were incidents. The fact that we are bringing out a number of issues more and more proactively, making reports clear and informing you if, for example, Category 4 investigations are being carried out shows how the Minister and I are in it. That's how we show that we're a learning organization. That learning organization makes mistakes, but it learns from them. What Mr Bosman has already said is important here, namely that you give people the space to feel free and safe to discuss things. For example, Mr Öztürk asked: how do you look at a general who says something about a move? An open culture also requires people to speak out when they disagree with something. Mr President, I would like to move on to employability, but I see Mr Öztürk running forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u263	Yeah, it was almost on the verge of entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u264	That's right. Of course, there has to be an open culture. People should be able to express their opinion, but I think a general knows that some decisions are taken in the Chamber and some decisions are taken by the Secretary of State and the Minister. In an open culture one also knows the boundaries. People who hold positions like this know very well what the protocols and the boundaries are. This general has said something about the danger to Dutch security and so on, and that has got a lot of people thinking. That is why I say that there are limits in an open culture. It's not like you're giving all the generals or people in the army the chance to make the decisions we're making here again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u265	The Chamber itself invited people to say something about the move to Vlissingen. That's what happened. People were asked what they thought about it. You have organised that yourself, so there are statements made there. The Minister and I said about the move to Vlissingen: that decision was taken in this Chamber in 2012. That decision shall be implemented. We will return to you when the decision has become final in the sense that everything has been worked out. We have also debated this on several occasions with Mrs Diks. That is where we stand when it comes to actual decision-making. We have said that the future resistance of the corps concerns us and that we are concerned about the outflow, not only with the Marines, but also with the Corps Command and the Air Mobile Brigade. That's our business. That is why we have this subject on the agenda. That is not because of one statement, but because of the concern from the Chamber, which was not only exhorted by Mrs Diks but also by Mrs Popken, by asking: "What about the outflow? What does that mean? Shouldn't you look more closely at that?" I think that is a normal course of action in the case of questions that can be put from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u266	A decision has been made by the Chamber. The Minister has signed contracts. Investments have been made. Deal's a deal. The credibility of the government is at stake. Then I think: outflow is important, but in the end we also have to keep our commitments. That outflow can't be just that Vlissingen is a little further than the Randstad. Nor can it be that we find it very difficult to take decisions here because each time the outflow or other reason is added.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u267	I will go through the decision-making process with you as we have agreed. You have seen in all the documents around the budget how we inform you about real estate projects. This includes, for example, Vlissingen, but also a number of other large real estate projects. That is the way I want to talk to you about it, so that you can see what we have agreed, but also what progress has been made and where we are now. I said that the final decision was taken on Vlissingen. We'll work that out. Before we finally proceed with the award, I will come back to you, as I do with every piece of decision-making, because I have agreed to do so with you in the context of the Defence Material Process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u268	Following on from that last sentence of the Secretary of State, I have another question. You and I have a lot to say about the Marines barracks. But we have said that we have a separate debate on this, so I will keep the question for that debate. I do have another question. You ended your speech with the remark about the Defence Material Process. Can you tell me where that trial says that real estate doesn't need a B letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u269	Of real estate, I myself indicated that I would like to include it in the Defence Equipment Project Book. I have also indicated to you that for that reason I would also like to call it different. The same applies to the IT projects. It was never agreed to work with A-, B- and C-letters in real estate, because it often goes from demand to the client. You're also giving a budget in that. That needs to be worked out. And when you're in the editing, you're actually already in the D-letter. So it's different from a regular material project. Real estate has a different element. I also indicated in the book that real estate is different from any other material project. I would like to talk to you about how we are going to do this in future in relation to the Defence Project Review.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u270	Surely you agree with me that shooting from A to D for real estate projects is actually too quick a move? We have seen this in the mentioned projects in Vlissingen and Amsterdam. And that the normal A-, B-, C-, D-row should actually be over, including for the larger real estate projects?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u271	No, because this has a different character. At the front, in the A letter, you determine what you want, what budget you want and where you want it. Then you give the order to work it out. When it wears off, I'll come back to you with a D-letter, which says how it's worked out. So it's just something else. In the project overview, I also stated that this has a different character than a regular material project overview, where you can still choose exactly which weapon to purchase. Here you just say which functions you want to have there and then you give the order to work that out. This ultimately results in an effect with an amount to which you can say yes or no. That's how it works with real estate; it's different from a material project.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u272	The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u273	But I have also indicated to you that I want to look at the Defence Material Process anyway, because you have already indicated on several occasions that there is a need to speed up the acquisition. I have also indicated to you that I would like to see how, in the material process, we can give more insight into the approach of Life Cycle Costing. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the next block: the means. A number of questions have been asked about the submarines, ammunition and the F-35. Mrs Bruins Slot asked the question about ammunition. We have already had the debate on this in the context of Zaanstad and the Hembrug terrain. How can you ensure that you can properly provide an essential part of the combat force? I share what Mrs Bruins Slot said, namely that we need to pay particular attention to this. That is why we have made an extra effort at all on the stocks. I have also indicated to you that we are doing this for the second main task. Mrs. Bruins Slot indicated that the last part was not done until 2033. But you need to see it's a continuous process. It is about putting stocks in order. When you practice and bet, those supplies run out, of course, and that's why it goes on for so long. That has nothing to do with the fact that only then is the first influx of certain ammunition. At European level, joint procurement has already been agreed. We are also looking at whether, together with Belgium and Germany, for example, with which we have, of course, bilateral cooperation in the area of ammunition, we can achieve further reinforcement, precisely for the very reason Mrs Bruins Slot has mentioned. She had also specifically asked who the monopolists are. That varies by type of ammunition. In some cases there are a lot of providers, and with some ammunition, for example torpedoes, you have very little or only one supplier; so you have to deal with a monopoly position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u274	In any case, thank you for that full first commitment to further shape and intensify the joint procurement process. Would the Secretary of State also like to inform the Chamber about the results of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u275	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u276	A second question I asked was: should you not look where you are really vulnerable to see whether you should come up with joint production in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u277	I think it's starting with the buy-in. I actually heard you say that in an interrupting debate, with Mrs Belhaj, I think. I think the first step is to look at the masses. The fact that we have relatively little purchasing compared to the larger countries is, of course, why we sometimes join in the back of the line. That is also what I indicated in the legislative consultation Materially. So it starts with mass. It starts by looking for a way to increase your purchasing power. I would first like to see what we can do with this, and also with bilateral cooperation. Maybe from that we can say: we need to develop something together. We are already doing this, for example, in the framework of aerial missiles for naval ships. Then it's the ESSM Block 2. I am not going to tell you exactly what that abbreviation stands for, but at least the Netherlands participates in a consortium of countries when it comes to producing it. I think we should see if we can further develop these examples. I would therefore like to say to Mrs Bruins Slot that we will first look at the mass and how we can strengthen purchasing power, and on the basis of such examples we will also see whether there is a need for more than what we are doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u278	The ESSM 2 is indeed a good example. This also shows that we can do this as the Netherlands. My question is whether, in the letter she writes about joint procurement, the Secretary of State would like to give an initial analysis of the production of certain ammunition and where we might be able to develop it. I understand that you can't do that from one day to the next, but given the vulnerabilities and the monopoly positions, I think it's important that we start thinking now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u279	I would like to propose to Mrs Bruins Slot that we include it as much as possible in the regular reporting moments we have. If we report in spring on the projects we are doing, for example on ammunition stocks, we can also address the results so far, including the question you are asking. I think we should first find out what is possible and how. I therefore propose that we come back to this in the spring to the annual reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u280	The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u281	I do not think there is a time before when we can show results when it comes to your question of what you can do in the context of international cooperation. There are a number of things going on, and your question is: can there be more? Or maybe I misunderstood you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u282	We can do that in the second term. I'm consistent. We'll continue with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u283	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll move on to the resources. I went directly into the ammunition examples, but I think it is also good to say in advance that we have never made so many commitments. The Minister has already indicated that. This will lead to a lot of invoices in the coming years. This also leads to spending on our expenditure, which you can also see. So there is no money on the shelf. All the money has already been designed and committed in contracts, or will be committed in the coming period. You've also been able to see when that is in the Defence Note. So I'm sure you'll keep us on top of that. The Minister has already discussed the Defence Fund, which can support us in this. In addition, it is an important fact that the conservation costs are included and that you also have an insight into them. Another important thing when it comes to the equipment is that we have offered you the Defence Industry Strategy. In that we addressed the question: what is important to keep the developments in knowledge and technology to yourself as a country, and what are really things that you need to do together within Europe, for example to ensure that you spend the money in the best way? I am sure that the Chamber will want to discuss this further, but I think that, given the government agreement, it is an important starting point in how we can both promote European cooperation and ensure that Dutch knowledge institutes and the Dutch business community can properly fulfil their role. That brings me to Mrs Bruins Slot's question about the Golden Triangle and the submarines. I think she's right to point to the Golden Triangle when it comes to the Navy Cluster. In the Defence Industry Strategy, you have been able to see that this is important. That's what it was in the previous D.I.S. That is also why it has been decided to dedicate the frigates directly to one party under Article 346. This also applies, for example, to the Combat Support Ship. We've already done that on the basis of the old DIS. We think this DIS will give more room to fill that out. Mrs Bruins Slot referred to EZK's report on the Navy Cluster. I assume that was also discussed with EZK. We have involved that report in the CIS. So it's part of how we got to the DIS. Mrs Bruins Slot indicated that a Dutch flag should eventually be placed on the submarine. For every ship that has the Netherlands, there will eventually be a Dutch flag on it. I'll bring the B letter to the Chamber in the spring. That is the process we are going through. I think it is good to realize that we no longer have a real Dutch production facility for the submarine. I know that there is a strong interest of every party in the choice we will make. We'll come back to that in the B-letter. I hear Mrs Bruins Slot say above all that we must ensure that we do not forget the knowledge institutes and the position that the Netherlands has in naval clusters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u284	The DIS is the Defense Industry Strategy. I just learned that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u285	I had to laugh a little about the Secretary of State when she said that every Dutch ship will eventually have a flag. Of course, I didn't mean to, but so does the Secretary of State. It's really about knowledge. If we want to maintain knowledge and jobs within the knowledge institutes and the business community, the Dutch involvement in the development of submarines must now be large. Otherwise, we'll just lose it. That report is ready to go. Does the Secretary of State recognize the analysis contained in the report?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u286	I think we should actually have this debate with the Secretary of State for EZK. I see a number of things in the report. The report is not unambiguous on all fronts, for example when it comes to submarines. It states, for example, that the surface water vessels are essential for a good and great export potential, and that the Dutch Navy industry is very successful in this. I think you agree with that. This report is less unambiguous about submarines. That is why, on the basis of this report, we have also looked ourselves together with industry and the knowledge institutions, which is now relevant for our own development, knowledge, technology and acquisition. It's in the Defense Industry Strategy. It has been offered to you and will also be discussed with you. Next spring, I will come back to you on the B letter, on the choice of submarines. I think that will also be the time to give your opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u287	The Secretary of State refers to the Secretary of State for EZK, but the Triarii report is under the DIS strategy. In the end, this is also just input for the acquisition process initiated by this State Secretary. One of the things in the report is that due to the midlife update of the Walrus class, a lot of knowledge about the stakes has been gained and maintained at various companies in the Netherlands. Does the Secretary of State recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u288	Yes, especially with the smaller SMEs that have developed and still have a certain knowledge and expertise function. I recognize that. I think the discussion about the submarines will come back to the B letter. I would like to refer to Mrs Bruins Slot. That's where the choices are made. You will also discuss the Defence Industry Strategy with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u289	There is a supplementary question from Mrs Diks on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u290	I did have another question. Could you perhaps describe again how the review of the Defence Note in 2020 relates to the D-letter on submarines in 2019?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u291	The B letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u292	Bernhard's B. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u293	We made a proposal to you in the Defence Note on investment planning. The submarines were in there, too. There was also the planning around the B-letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u294	So if I just knock it down, to talk to Sjoerd Sjoerdsma, then it's actually true that the review in 2020 is a description of the situation of Defense at the time. That is not really a vision of the future, but a slightly more tidy and probably a somewhat thicker version of the Defence Note that is now in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u295	No. We have presented the Defence Note to you. You may not have all of them, but at least you have taken them over in terms of investment planning. So it's up. We have also given you insight into what we intend to do over the next 15 years. The Minister has just discussed the re-evaluation of the Defence Note. This is about what the future looks like, what developments we see and what it takes. That is separate from a B letter for a submarine and from all the other A, B, C and D letters that are already in investment planning. We've already established it with each other. Every year you will see what will be sent to you that year. That is quite separate from the review of the Defence Note, because that is about the future and what is needed even more in the light of the security situation, whether integrated or not, as Mrs Belhaj said just now, with the way in which you should assess it. The Minister has just gone into it when we will. It has also indicated that we still have to implement this in terms of the process. But at least we have indicated to you that we see the need to do so, precisely to be ready for the future, for which you also asked for attention. Mr. Chairman. I'm on the F-35. In the legislative consultation Material we have already talked about the fence around the F-35. I indicated then that we see it as a regular project in the sense of currency risks and that kind of thing. The F-35 project should be able to make use of this. Motions have been tabled in the Chamber on this subject, which I do not think have been adopted. So I guess we've had that discussion. But there was another question from Mr Voordewind about Turkey and the F-35. Mrs Karabulut has previously asked questions about this in relation to statements made in America about Turkey. Currently, the US Secretary of Defense advises not to remove Turkey from the F-35 programme. This is also discussed in Congress. That is also what I said in the answer to the parliamentary questions. Mr Voordewind asked whether we are dependent on Turkey in terms of the maintenance process. That is not the case, because there will be maintenance facilities in Norway, the Netherlands and Turkey. I hope that soon we can actually start construction in Woensdrecht. We are not dependent on Turkey when it comes to maintenance facilities. Nor has Turkey been suspended at the moment. A decision on this has yet to be taken in America. There is another discussion, however, about the production facilities. Production takes place in different countries, including Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u296	I understand that the Americans who are issuing the orders have preferred Turkey and that most of the maintenance will take place there when it comes to Europe. The Netherlands and Norway would then be behind, or would have smaller numbers in maintenance. Hence my fear and my question to the Secretary of State: if tensions are to rise again, must the Netherlands have sufficient capacity to do so itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u297	Yes. Defence, EZK together with the business community are developing a logistics process that makes it very attractive to do the maintenance in the Netherlands.The Netherlands will then act as a single gateway, just as we have with the Dutch port of Woensdrecht, where there are already a number of good companies. Together with EZK we aim to make it as attractive as possible because in the Netherlands you can do the maintenance as simple as possible. I think it is therefore important that we start construction soon in Woensdrecht. I understand your question as: do we depend on Turkey when it comes to maintenance? I said no. The debate on whether or not to suspend the decision to be taken by the Americans is still ongoing. These were earlier written questions from Mrs Karabulut. A number of questions have also been asked about resources and real estate. Mrs Diks talked about involving local authorities in real estate projects. She has just discussed this extensively with the Minister. As one of the largest real estate owners in the Netherlands, Defence is actually active in every municipality. My experience is that a lot of municipalities and provinces are very happy with Defence. As soon as the Defense Department is considering leaving or doing something else, the mayor's gonna be right on the sidewalk asking, "You're not leaving, are you?" That doesn't mean it's always going well. Mrs. Diks has her own experience in Leeuwarden. We have also had the discussion here about Gilze-Rijen, where things have not always gone well. It's also a continuous field of tension. We make a very important social contribution, regardless of the contribution to safety, but we can also, of course, cause nuisance in some areas, for example around airports. Of course, that has an impact. In general, I think we always handle this in a good way. We are just trying to always deal with local authorities in good time and also to give clarity at the front. I also indicated that we are looking at the strategic real estate plan in the context of the real estate, because more is needed. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the block of manners. Mrs Bruins Slot has asked a number of questions about this. In her future vision, Mrs Belhaj used the mammoth tanker as a metaphor. Defense is an organization of 60,000 people. So there are a lot of people working there, and a lot has to be done there. Fortunately, a lot of things are also going well, but we also see that we have given commanders a lot of tasks. Mrs Bruins Slot and Mr Bosman also tabled a motion to the budget last year to ensure that we can resolve this. You have read in the reply that we have set a number of things in motion in terms of decentralising powers. For example, we have invested powers with lower commanders: the assignment of functions for the substructure, the appointment of re-enterers and the self-interpreting of the hardness clause when paying back training costs. Deviations from compensation for expenses incurred during a mission have also been delegated. We think more is needed. For example, the army went one step further on 1 October. It has the powers even lower, at brigade level decentralised. I think that's a good move, but we also see that it can sometimes have unwanted effects on the organization. So we're looking to see if we can delegate any further and what that means for the rest of the organization. As I said in the reply, we are coming forward with a further impact before 1 August 2019. In any case, we are now assessing all the sg-instructions, CDS-instructions and ministerial arrangements there as well as many of them. Are they still necessary? We have taken as a rule that they must be more than four years old. Then the question is: what have you done with it in the past period and do you really need it? At least a number of the sg indications are deleted. With the CDS indications we have now started and we are actually doing the same with the ministerial arrangements. We'll see what we really need and what we can do without.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u298	Very briefly. I have put this question very consciously, despite the written answer, because I believe that this is essential to ensure that the organisation can change decisively. That's why you need commanders. What more personnel powers does the Secretary of State intend to place with the lower level commanders?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u299	This should also come from the talks with the commanders and with the personnel managers of the various Defence components. They are now looking at what you should lower down, what is in it than the role of the staff officer and what a commander himself can do in it. An important competence that I have not just mentioned, but which we have introduced since 1 October of this year, is, for example, the power to buy independently. In this we go from the €1,250 scheme to the €15,000 scheme. We started pilots at four units. So we started on a small scale, for example with the Corps Commando. If anything works there, it'll be scaled up. So with the independent purchase of up to €15,000 we started with four units. We checked to see if it works there. If it works there, it'll be scaled up. For example, we are going to look at human powers. If it works anywhere, can you scale it up further without a very large master plan in front? That master plan at the front is actually re-assessing all the clues of sg's and the CdS and of ministerial arrangements. You have seen in the reply that we are continuing this path. The motion you have tabled is very clear. It is right that you should draw attention to what makes the work interesting. Because we lay down a lot of responsibilities. There's supposed to be room for that, too. The igg has expressly said: put that commander in his power. You yourself argued in favour of this. The Minister and I fully support that. We think that we really need to step up our efforts in relation to what we have already done. Mrs Bruins Slot had asked another question about wifi; from the camping-wifi to the hotel-wifi to the home-wifi. I indicated that we realized that at 40 of the locations we have at the end of the year. In fact, we are ahead of schedule. That's similar to hotel quality, so to hotel Wi-Fi. We're also looking at the copper wiring. We'll change it next year. It's gonna be fiberglass. We also ask if people are more satisfied. We find that people see it getting better, but we also want to increase the bandwidth further. So we're gonna see if we can roll that out further. The Minister indicated that this is also part of the step-by-step approach. The first step has been taken. More will probably be needed, but this is a continuous process for the bandwidth required. Then there was a question from Mr Voordewind about investing in sustainable innovation at MARIN. You have seen that we are probably going to invest in emission-free sailing. We are therefore in favour of the Zero Emission Lab by MARIN. In accordance with the Operational Energy Strategy, which is partly adapted in the light of the discussion I had with the Chamber, we want to further reduce the pollution of the environment with emissions. Sustainability is already an important starting point in the replacement programmes. It is therefore very obvious that we will call on the knowledge of MARIN. Actually, we do that a lot. We're also working with the civilian sector. Together with other ministries because we are not doing it alone, of course, we are going to see if we can make a contribution to the Seven Oceans Simulator Centre. We have also dealt with this issue in the legislative consultation. There was another question from Mrs Karabulut about the Royal Marechaussee and the staff. It is right that you should draw attention to this, because in the staff report you have seen that many people there indicate that the workload is high. In 2018, 20 million extra has become available for expanding the capacity of the Royal Marechaussee for border control. This will increase to 43.4 million in 2019. We shall therefore be able to adopt 217 votes. They've already been hired, because they're in training. From 2019 onwards, they will enter. Thus, in its totality, 417 additional colleagues enter the Royal Marechaussee. That'll relieve the workload. We have already mentioned that we are also looking at other ways of filling in, of course with Schiphol and also when it comes to adaptive at the border. That's what we started a pilot on. We see that our Marechaussee staff are very positive about this, also because they can hire their own colleagues. They see that relieves the workload. So this is how we try to get 417 people in structuralally. The money for that is available. They're in training. We continue to work together in other ways, including at Schiphol Airport, to ensure that the workload is relieved. Mr President, I think I am through all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u300	Thank you very much for your answer, but Mr Bosman still has a question. Take your chance! Well, that's the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u301	You'd almost think: a conspiracy theory, because this is about the DMO question. That was a pm.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u302	Mr. Chairman. That's right. I'm just trying to find the question very quickly between all the papers I have. I believe that we have also discussed this in the substantive legislative consultation. The question was whether there is sufficient capacity at DMO. I have indicated that additional functions have been made available, that part of them is aimed at the purchasers and that some of the functions still have to be filled in. In addition to structural functions that we have opened up to buyers in a difficult labour market, we have recently finally reached agreement with the Dutch purchasing federation "This is not the right name for "reservists." I believe that twenty first reservists have signed up. We try to give substance to that role in that way. I haven't found my paper yet. I'll see if I've answered the question in full. Otherwise, I think Mr Bosman will tell me again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u303	Fine. Thank you, Secretary of State, for your answer. There is a need for a short suspension before the start of the second term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u304	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Defence budget for 2019. We need the second term from the Chamber. First, Mrs Popken has the floor on behalf of the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u305	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their answers. It is clear that the PVV wants Defence to protect what we love, starting with our own country, our own security, our waters, borders and territory. To that end, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands currently has open borders;]] [[noting that the Royal Marechaussee must protect these borders;]] [[calls on the Government to close the Dutch borders for asylum seekers and all immigrants from Islamic countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Popken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u306	Mr. Chairman. I have already indicated in my first term that in the Netherlands drug crime is basically free to go. The Minister of JenV also indicated earlier that only 10% of all drug production and problems can be detected in the Netherlands. That is far too little as far as my group is concerned. The army already has the task of assisting in this. My aim with the next motion would be to encourage the more frequent use of our army and military forces against these drug syndicates, so that we can say at least next year that there is not a 10% detection rate but a higher percentage. To that end, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that drug cartels are free to go in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that both the JenV Minister and the national police indicated that they could not handle the fight against drug crime on their own;]] [[considers that the drug cartels and their many violent incidents constitute a threat to public order;]] [[noting that Defence has a duty to protect public order in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to increase the use of the army where and whenever possible to inform the authorities against drug gangs in the Netherlands and the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Popken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u307	Mr. Chairman. During the first term of the Chamber and of the Minister and the Secretary of State, it was also said about the relocation of the barracks from Doorn to Vlissingen. Now I heard the Minister say: a deal is a deal. But as I indicated in my first term, the Marines learn an important lesson, namely: dare to turn around. That's why I'd like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are serious concerns among the marines about the proposed relocation of the marine barracks from Doorn to Vlissingen;]] [[noting that investigations, petitions and surveys show that these objections lead to the Marine Corps being faced with an irresponsiblely high outflow;]] [[Whereas this high irregular outflow from the Marine Corps poses a threat to the employability of the Marines and the safety of the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to keep the Van Braam Houckgeestkazerne open for housing the Marine Corps,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Popken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u308	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to stress that it would not be the first time that a decision has been taken when it later becomes apparent that it is not a sensible choice. Look at the barracks. We have just had the Amsterdam barracks, the complex Brasserskade in The Hague, the ammunition complex in Alphen, the Corporal Van Oudheusdenkazerne in Hilversum, the Joost Dourleinkazerne on Texel, Camp Nieuw Milligen in Uddel and the Queen Wilhelminazerne in Ossendrecht. As far as I'm concerned, Doorn's barracks can be added. Mr President, my last point in this second term. It has already been mentioned in the first term that cyber and space are becoming increasingly important. Mrs Bruins Slot will be tabling a motion on the substance of the matter in a moment. I also have a motion on this, which will, in particular, monitor the budget from next year on and will ensure that we, as a Chamber, are better able to carry out our role on cyber and space. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the importance of cyber and space will only increase in the coming years;]] [[noting that these two mentioned military domains are not sufficiently clearly reflected in the Defence budget;]] [[noting that the space area is not even mentioned at all in the Defence Note, either in the Cyber Strategy or in the Defence Budget;]] [[calls on the government to clearly specify and develop cyber and space in the Defence budget as of next year, so as to make it clear which activities or areas of activity. objectives and the financial resources made available for this purpose;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Popken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u309	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u310	Thank you very much. I call Mr Bosman of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy. Yeah, all those abbreviations...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u311	That's right. Mr President, thank you. We've been talking a lot about DOD for the past two weeks. That's good and important. It's an important department. In that department, staff is very important. That is a concern that the cabinet and certainly this Minister and Secretary of State have put on one side. It is a pity that the collective bargaining has been suspended, because in order to achieve a good collective agreement, you need two parties to sit down at the table. So I very much hope that, in the very short term, both the unions and the employer will sit down at the table to talk about pensions, about the wage building, about a flexible staffing system and certainly about a good reward for the men and women of the armed forces, who are certainly waiting for that. Mr Bruins Slot has tabled a motion including my name, and I believe that the whole Chamber, at least to express that concern and the importance we attach to it as a Chamber, once again. During the WHO Staff, I think we talked about the ISAF letter. I've received it in the meantime. I filled out the survey right away, because I think it is important. Veterans are thus involved in what happens to them, what went well and did not go well. That's something the organization can learn from. In this way, we stay in touch with the men and women who have been on the air and gain insight. Another point is the Invictus Games. I am, once again, very happy that we are bringing it to the Netherlands. I am also extremely pleased with the commitment of the Minister and the Secretary of State to involve as many people as possible. Coincidentally I just spoke to the director Sport of VWS, who was very enthusiastic and is also working on it. Anything we can connect would be positive. Thank you for the clear answers on the DMO, on the responsibilities that are invested there and on the commitment that is being made to fill that with reserveists and the umbrella organisation. Because there is a challenge for us. It is important that we acquire well, quickly and in a very careful way. I am extremely pleased with the Defence Industry Strategy, which also puts the focus on Dutch industry once again. Mr President, with regard to the Ministry of Security Defence. We had a brief discussion. In my opinion, the IVD has two parts: the inspection side and the incident investigation side. If the inspection is going to investigate, it's not the accident side, it's the inspection side. That's the difference. We must keep very clear that the accident side or the incident investigation is a branch other than the inspection side. They're separated from each other. In the whole discussion I have had, it is mainly about protecting and securing the incident investigation. On the inspection side, this is as good as possible, because it has been secured according to national regulations. The concern I had for the inspection is that the amount of people is limited; it is dimensioned and that makes sense. In 2020, we will have an evaluation in which I would like to say in advance that, because of the limited number of people who have been allocated, there can be no story that people could not do all the inspections or investigations and thereby create an image that they would not be able to function. There must be a balance between what was actually possible with the capacity of the inspection and the filling that we, as a government, gave to the inspection. Again, I think it is absolutely important that the inspection be a success. I'm going for that, and I think the Minister and the Secretary of State are going for that. I hope that everyone in the Defence Organisation wants to make that a success, and I think it is. Finally. I have two further questions to ask: the conflict prevention team and participation. I'm just reminding the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u312	Thank you. Mrs Diks has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u313	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I'm thinking candy a minute off my own BHOS budget, so you don't have to worry. I'm gonna go deal with a few more things, if I may put it that way. We have just discussed the review of the Defence Note in 2020. I see that there is a phase difference between all the things that are going on today and the choices that GroenLinks would like to make for that new Defence Note. A number of visions have been presented, the army is already working, the JSF is being bought and all kinds of things are already going on, like the submarines. My point is that we should look at defence with a more open eye, because we want to talk to Europe in particular. We cannot yet know what the outcome is. For me, that would really be one of the foundations for the new Defence Note. It is good that there is more money for the defence industry now, but I think it is important to keep a close eye on that phase difference so that we do not get in the way of ourselves. I tabled a motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government intends to review its Defence Note by 2020;]] [[Whereas it is important that fundamental choices be made in this review on the future organisation of the armed forces;]] [[calls on the government, in the run-up to the review of the Defence Vision in 2020, to deploy a process of participation to involve the Chamber, Defence personnel and society in fundamental choices on the future establishment of Defence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Diks and Mr Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u314	Then there is another point, Mr President. On several occasions, we have all said, including the rulers, that the people in the Defense Department must stand at one level. That's the base, the base of the entire military. We see that there is a lot of talk, that there are a lot of words, but for the time being we see little wool. I'd say I'm shooting a bit into the proverbs, because I'm asking for "no words, but deeds" and "butter with the fish." I mean that exactly as I say it here. The staff wants to be taken seriously, appreciated and no longer has enough to say just the words they say, because they are slowly believing. People want to feel that in the wallet too. That's why I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the discussion between Defence and Trade Unions on the resumption of negotiations on a new working conditions agreement has been suspended;]] [[considers that the working conditions of Defence personnel should be significantly improved in the short term;]] [[calls on the Government to take all reasonable steps to promote the resumption of negotiations on a new collective agreement for defence personnel in the short term and to ensure that they lead to an agreement acceptable to both parties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diks and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u315	Mr. Chairman. It has also been said about the real estate in the Defense Department and its relationship with the local authorities. I have a motion on that. I'm just reading out the request, otherwise I'm gonna get into my own text. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to involve local authorities as early as possible in decisions on Defence Real Estate or significant changes to it and to always seek a solution that best suits the interests of Defence and those of the local authorities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u316	And finally, a positive remark, because I also have it in the back pocket. I find it special to see how the Minister has taken up the implementation of my motion on the Caribbean. It does so with enthusiasm and with other countries, as well as with what they would really like in the Caribbean. Actually, that's the way I'd like to see it on a lot of other things in the Defense Department. So you have, Minister, shown that you can do it. Now we are all waiting to see how it is taken up on other subjects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u317	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Bruins Slot, on behalf of the Christian Democratic Apple.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u318	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now it's true. I'm talking about the time when I'm allowed to speak by the clock. I don't have another budget that I can take anything off! Mr. Chairman. Defense protects what's dear to us. In the changing international circumstances, we can and should simply rely on strong Defense. After decades of austerity, a great deal is being asked of our armed forces and the armed forces must also come a long way. Last year, our men and women in the Defense Department worked very hard to get that organization back on its feet and carry out all these tasks daily. With fewer people, more of them have been asked. And they've made a huge effort this year. It is also important to give them a token of appreciation for this. Mr Kerstens mentioned that too. However, it is also important that, as a Chamber, we do not get in the way of the trade unions and the employer. But it is also important that if there is no working conditions agreement at the end of the day, a token of appreciation goes to the staff. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that last year's defence personnel made a major effort to deploy, restore and maintain the armed forces;]] [[Whereas this commitment should be appreciated;]] [[calls on the Government, if it does not reach an agreement on terms of employment this year, to come forward with an additional proposal before the turn of the year, which shows in concrete terms the appreciation of defence personnel,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bruins Slot, Mr Bosman, Mr Belhaj, Mr Voordewind, Mr Kerstens, Mr Stoffer, Mr Diks, Mr Karabulut, Mr Popken and Mr Öztürk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u319	Mr. Chairman. This motion is widely signed and shows that the whole Chamber shares this wish. It is true that it is about maintaining staff, and that can sometimes be on the square meter. The Secretary of State was right to talk about that. Then it's about the availability of good internet. It is nice to see that the organisation, compared to the last time we spoke, has really succeeded. We have now gone from camping wifi to hotel wifi and that is a good first step! But Mrs Karabulut was right to say that you cannot ship the present generation with hotel Wi-Fi. It really takes home Wi-Fi. An average military man who has chosen for Defense should be able to play games. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the availability of wireless internet on the alloy within the Defence Department has been identified as one of the priorities for personnel in the Defence Note;]] [[noting that all barracks have their own broadband network of Defence;]] [[Whereas the availability of fast and good Wi-Fi in alloy chambers is of great importance for the attractiveness of Defence as an employer;]] [[Calls on the Government to provide high-quality wireless broadband internet, home Wi-Fi, for all alloy within Defence, to make a plan for that purpose and to inform the Chamber of Commerce by spring 2019 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins Slot, Mr Belhaj and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u320	Mr. Chairman. I talked to the minister about the increasing risk, the threat, of cyber attacks in space that can shut down satellites. The minister said that you can read that more or less in the current Defense Cyber Strategy, but that's not enough. That is also not enough for this cabinet to adopt the new space policy in the coming year. If you don't combine space policy with the threat you're seeing from the DOD, you'll soon see that we're missing some really important steps. That is why I want the Minister to do a real job on this. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that space, besides land, air, sea and cyber, is the fourth domain for military action;]] [[noting that the increasing use of GPS, satellite communications and earth observation increases the dependence of society on the use of space;]] [[Whereas cyber-attacks in space can disrupt society by disabling satellites and thereby shutting down payments and disabling GPS with all its consequences for car traffic, automated processes and aviation;]] [[Considering that vulnerability is also increasing, as some states invest in counterspace capabilities, including offensive cyber weapons specifically targeting satellites;]] [[noting that the domain lacks space in the new Cyber Strategy of Defence;]] [[calls on the government to broaden the Defense Cyber Strategy with the use of cyber soldiers to protect the Netherlands if cyber attacks in space threaten to disrupt society, and inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u321	People may wonder why this motion is so long. That has to do with the fact that we have never really talked about this issue so far, Mrs Popken said it even though it really is right at our front door. We have seen that it has already taken place in Finland. That is why I want to make it very clear what this is all about. Mr. Chairman. Defense submits proposals to another ministry to make sure that young people can do social service at Defense, the best organization, where you have a combination of learning and enriching yourself on the other hand. I think it is very unusual that some committee says: well, we do not find that appealing enough. I really can't reach that. I don't really think it's a good idea to table a motion on it, but it's now 11.20 p.m., Mr President, so I'm gonna do it anyway. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government invests in the social service in young people's talents and the commitment of young people who want to do something for others voluntarily, as well as in the active development of citizenship, solidarity, community spirit and meetings between population groups;]] [[Considering that the Defence Paper expresses the ambition to offer young people the possibility of a social service in the Defence Department;]] [[having noted that a number of initial applications for a social service period have been rejected by the Defence Department;]] [[calls on the Government to consult interdepartmentally in order to create room for social service in the Defense Department,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u322	Fortunately, Mr Stoffer agreed with me. Then there's one more point, the ammo. I really welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to work with other countries to speed up the purchase of ammunition and get in the front line of that line. That is really important to ensure that we can do that. My question to the Secretary of State is whether, if she informs the Chamber about this, she would also like to indicate the results that will be achieved. The second is the production of ammunition. ESSM 2 is indeed an excellent example of how to develop a very scarce resource itself. I understand that the Secretary of State has not dared to say this now or to do so completely. We're gonna do this on other terms. But at least make it clear what steps could be taken and go in consultation with the other countries to do so. I would also like a feedback on this. Mr. Chairman. DOD really is a wonderful organization. There's been a lot of good going on in the last few years. The CDA is extremely proud of the men and women of Defense who work for us every day. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u323	Thank you. Then Mr Kerstens has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u324	That is, of course, to support Mrs Bruins Slot's last words. Can Mrs Bruins Slot give some clarification on the first motion towards both directors when it comes to the valuation? I think it's okay if she does. The Minister and the Secretary of State understand that it's not about a chocolate letter in the battleboats. But if this motion is to be welcomed, because there is not a collective agreement in time, perhaps it would be good to clarify that it should not be the case that it should be said again in the real negotiations: we have already done so and now it is moving away from space. We just want to see a chivalrous gesture when it comes to that appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u325	I've tried to explain it clearly, but I'll make another good attempt. It is indeed up to the Secretary of State and the trade unions to reach an agreement as soon as possible. And we told each other not to want to sit on that chair. I really hope it works before January 1st. If that does not happen, it is important that there should be a token of appreciation for that organisation, for those men and women who have worked very hard over the past year. That shouldn't interfere with each other. That is why I have explicitly included in the operative part the passage which begins with "if..." I do not have the motion in front of me, nor do I want it to go wrong in the Acts, but well, that is how Mr Kerstens can see it. I'll take a look at him and see if he thinks this is a good explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u326	He put his thumb up. I call Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u327	Mr. Chairman. For the sake of time, I immediately proceed to read out the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands is in favour of military cooperation with European countries;]] [[Whereas, however, a European army is undesirable;]] [[noting that the debate on a European army has accelerated;]] [[Whereas the European Commission has developed plans for a European Peace Facility (war fund) which will be politically steered by the European Commission;]] [[Whereas the EU wishes to make greater use of qualified majority voting within the framework of the Common Foreign and Security Policy;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from participating in the European Peace Facility and to promote this position in the European Union,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the General Court finds that the Dutch armed forces suffer from heavy workload as a result of participation in missions abroad;]] [[noting that the Defence personnel report states that important military components are understaffed;]] [[Whereas this pressure should be further reduced in order to improve the employability of the Dutch armed forces;]] [[whereas the Dutch contribution to the NATO Enhanced Forward Presence in Lithuania has been extended to some 2020;]] [[Considers that withdrawal of the Dutch contribution in Lithuania is beneficial to the workload of the Dutch armed forces and to the debate on political relaxation in Europe;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the Dutch military from Lithuania as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-54]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u328	Mr. Chairman. Staff first has been said many times. Then you must also give priority to the staff. Of course, the negotiations are between employer and employees, but the Secretary of State manages the wallet. Additional resources are available, so let them be deployed. To this end, I tabled an amendment together with Mr Kerstens. I look forward to the approval of this amendment by the rulers. Finally, I would like an answer from the Minister as to whether she is prepared to share with the Chamber the plan for more militarism which she sends to NATO at the end of the year. My second question is when we will receive the letter from the Minister on the offensive cyber actions and under what conditions they will take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u329	I now give the floor to Mrs Belhaj on behalf of Democrats 66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u330	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the Minister for answering the questions, but also for responding positively to the future perspective. I think we hope that this will be very good and, above all, will make the staff happy. If you're not happy with a few things, you file motions. I'm just gonna start with that, first of all with the one about diversity, inclusiveness and resources. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government for Defence will strengthen inclusiveness and diversity in all areas of Defence;]] [[Considering that various Defence Networks such as the Multicultural Network, Woman and Defence, Homosexuality and Armed Forces and Young Defence are being deployed in a supportive way so that more attention is paid to the themes of diversity and inclusiveness within the organisation;]] [[having noted that in the previous 2018 budget under Article 6.4, the financial resources of networks were recovered and are no longer visible in the 2019 budget;]] [[noting that these funds are now included in the budget under Article 8 Defence Support Command, but that this is therefore invisible to the Chamber;]] [[calls on the government to make clear in the next budget and annual report the financial resources of multicultural network, woman and defense, Homosexuality and Armed Forces and Young Defense,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u331	Mr. Chairman. I believe that the discussion about a European military force or European army is far from over. We don't have to, because I know that by 2030 we'll see who got it right. In order to achieve this or to do justice to the sentence in the coalition agreement on which we agree, the next motion for a resolution. And, of course, very special, should not go unnoticed: also on behalf of Mr Bosman of the VVD. He co-signed the motion. You don't want to miss the chance to do that together. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government agreed to continue bilateral and European cooperation in the field of joint training and training;]] [[Whereas a joint European military training facility for training and training contributes to the employability and interoperability of the armed forces;]] [[Whereas special forces currently have to do, inter alia, Urban Warfare training mainly abroad because of the more extensive facilities there;]] [[calls on the Government to explore in the short term the possibilities for the initiative of a PESCO project to create a joint European Urban Warfare Training Facility for the joint training and training of military personnel,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Belhaj and Mr Bosman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u332	Then there is the brief debate we have had here on the Navy Etablissement Amsterdam. I would simply like to confine myself to my role as a Member of Parliament and to what needs I still have with regard to that review. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the House of Representatives has so far been informed of the intention to reconsider the decision-making process of the Navy Etablissement Amsterdam;]] [[instructs the Government to inform the House of Representatives first of all of all the financial implications and usefulness and need of the intention to review the Navy Etablissement Amsterdam before any steps are taken with regard to the review,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u333	Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, I believe that, as my fellow Members have pointed out, the most important thing is the staff. Although there are different perspectives on this, we all agree that the military and personnel must be recognised for the work they do. I wish the Secretary of State and the Minister every success in this difficult task of ensuring that confidence returns as soon as possible. I'll follow that throughout the year. Today we have said nothing else about the Gibels committee; consciously, because we will address it at a later date. The same applies to the debate on chromium-6, among others. So there's still plenty to do for the defense and for me as a spokesman. Once again, in the meantime, I wish the rulers good luck with this difficult task.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u334	Thank you. I call Mr Kerstens on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u335	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues have given me permission to use a little more time if necessary. But I'm still trying to do it within the two minutes that are here on the bell in front of me. I'll start with three brief motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that veterans and their families deserve respect and appreciation from the Defense Department;]] [[Whereas the home front of deployed military personnel before, during and after missions wants to be better (and more "to measure") informed;]] [[calls on the Government to present a detailed plan for this purpose and to involve representatives of the home front in this work by the following Veterans' Note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in view of developments in the world, a solid longer-term vision of Defence is of great importance, taking into account, inter alia, the long-term procurement and production procedures of materials and equipment;]] [[having regard to the communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee, and in particular the European Parliament, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, ……]] [[noting that the various armies are now developing their own vision for the future;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Chamber, to adopt a clear timetable and procedure in the light of the above note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the negotiations for a new collective agreement had failed with the Defense Department;]] [[Whereas, as of 1 January next, there is a risk of a general deterioration of the military pension scheme, as the pension fund takes the view that a "basic scheme" should be applied;]] [[Whereas this will further reduce the confidence of Defence staff in their organisation;]] [[noting that this would benefit no one;]] [[calls on the Government to prevent this deterioration by communicating with trade unions towards pension fund that the current regime should be continued for the time being,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-59]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-60]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u336	Finally, Mr President. I have tabled an amendment, co-signed by Mrs Karabulut. Let it inspire the rulers when it comes to giving substance to the motion adopted by Mrs Bruins Slot by the Chamber, I think, and all of us about appreciation for all those men and women of Defence, whether they are military or civilian personnel. We all want to put them on one, and they just deserve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u337	Thank you very much. I think that was just within the speaking time. I call Mr Voordewind, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u338	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Three more minutes? Oh, that's not so bad. I would like to thank the rulers for their answers, especially in relation to those cash slides that go forward, but whose money is not lost, even after 2021. It remains for Defence and equipment, investment programmes. I understand from the two leaders that the budget fund is going to help with this. We, too, have Mr Bruins Slot's motion to encourage staff and to take good care of it when it comes to signing it heartily next year. Finally, we have one motion, which concerns the maintenance of the JSF, in order to avoid unnecessary execution in Turkey. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Turkey, like the Netherlands and Norway, will carry out engine maintenance for the F-35 aircraft in Europe;]] [[Whereas, in view of the recent history of political tensions with Turkey and the Turkish purchase of the Russian S-400 air defense system, it is undesirable that the Netherlands depend on Turkey for engine maintenance of the F-35;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the Netherlands does not become dependent on engine maintenance in Turkey for the maintenance of the Dutch F-35s,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind, Mr Bosman, Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u339	Finally, I wish the two directors, the two directors, a great deal of wisdom in carrying out not an easy task with so many staff and with so many dangers in the world. Of course, I wish the military a great deal of wisdom and success, including civilian personnel in the Defense Department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u340	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u341	Mr. Chairman. Three dots and two motions; that should work in three minutes. First of all, I would like to return to the interruption that the CDA gave me in the first term about robotisation, international agreements and regulation. It is perhaps good to report that the VVD and the SGP have taken the initiative from the Foreign Affairs Committee to hold a hearing on this issue. I just wanted to say that anyway. The second point I have left out in the first period, I think. We've been most critical of the Defense Department the last few days. I would like to express my compliments to the Minister, the Secretary of State and the Defence staff that we really feel that it has been moving in the right direction since this year. I'd say keep up the good work. I think that, after all these years, that compliment may well be appointed from among us. Then there is the third point. I had a whole bunch of people from the Mavo visiting this afternoon, mixed learning path, I think. Ten boys, ten girls roughly. And I asked, "Who wants to work for the DOD?" One girl raised her hand and said, "I'm gonna be a nurse." So, you see, they're willing to work there. If one in twenty Dutch people would like that, then we really still have something to choose from the Defense Department. Mr. Chairman. Then there are two more motions, because my time is running out in the meantime. The first goes like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas France and Germany advocate a European army;]] [[noting that the Minister publicly distanced himself from this plea because Member States must and will continue to be responsible for the use of the sword;]] [[calls on the Government to formally inform the French and German Governments of the Dutch objections to a European army and to actively cooperate with the governments of other EU Member States in order to achieve effective joint counterweight,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer and Mr Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u342	One more motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas cooperation between Defence, companies and knowledge institutions in the field of innovation, research and development may be in the mutual interest;]] [[calls on the Government to further optimise this cooperation by making greater use of dual-use innovation and promoting, where possible, agreements on real access for Dutch companies to knowledge developed by Defence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u343	That's right, Mr. Chairman. That's because of the flat heels I'm wearing. I loved that Mr Stoffer said that a girl put her finger up and said: I would like to work for the DOD as a nurse. Of course, that's a wonderful profession, but didn't Mr Stoffer have something like: that's fantastic, but you can also become a general or Commander of the Armed Forces at Defence? If you hear a girl say that next time, will you also show her the possibilities of the summit, so that in future we may also have women sitting there in the official benches?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u344	I'd love to, but I promised to tell the Secretary of State she was dying to work here. Yeah, she wanted this, so I'm not gonna suggest it any different. But then she can see that she can become a general. I think the Secretary of State or the Minister will take care of that. But I totally agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u345	Okay. My question is about the European army. I heard you file that motion. Can I assume that the SGP Group will also vote in favour of our motion in which we call for a clear statement, a clear no to the European Peace Facility from the government, and ask that it should also promote it in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u346	I'm from a very small group. I always have to consult everything with my fellow members. If I said yes, it would only be one of the three who voted. We're gonna take a serious look at it. I really want to take a good look at her, but I'm at least sympathetic to it. But I want to read her carefully before I say yes or no, because once I make a promise, I have to keep her, so I'm afraid to do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u347	I know you no different than being honest and keeping promises you make. But the European Peace Facility, the war spot, is 10.5 billion outside the EU budget and a further step towards that European army. You can make a basic statement about that, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u348	As I said, my basic statement is that I am sympathetic to that. But first I wanted to read the recitals and the operative part carefully and see whether that fits or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u349	Thank you. We are therefore ready for the last speaker from the Chamber, Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u350	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I would like to thank the rulers for their answers. Given the pace at which they want to solve problems, I feel that we are not going to make it to the D66 dream plans of 2030 and that there should be a plan for 2050 or so. I would therefore ask both directors to speed up their plans and ideas. I have three motions. So I'll read it to you one by one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research work by Trouw and Nieuwsuur has shown that Dutch support has been provided to groups guilty of violent human rights violations;]] [[considers it undesirable that groups guilty of violent human rights violations should be provided with Dutch taxpayers' money;]] [[calls on the Government to cease all financial support for groups guilty of violent human rights violations immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that on its own website, the Defence Department indicated that it would contribute to peace, security and freedom in the world;]] [[considers that it is undesirable for countries to weigh mainly their own financial interests and potential benefits before entering into intervention;]] [[Whereas research has shown that oil and other raw materials seem to be an important reason for foreign powers to interfere in a conflict in a country;]] [[points out that the grounds for participation in a foreign mission should not depend solely on financial interests and that the Dutch commitment should primarily focus on contributing to peace, security and freedom in the world,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-65]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u351	Then the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister of Defence stated in the television programme WNL On Sunday that the Netherlands is engaged in a cyber war with the Russians;]] [[noting that the media was informed earlier than the MPs;]] [[noting that Article 100 requires the Government to provide prior information to the States General on the deployment or making available of the armed forces;]] [[noting that the Chamber did not receive an Article 100 letter concerning the cyber war with the Russians;]] [[considers that the Chamber should always be informed in good time and in good time;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber in good time and in good time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-X-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u352	We need the second term from the government. The Minister begins and is going to give her opinion on the motions tabled and the two amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u353	And two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u354	And two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u355	The first is Mrs Karabulut's question to share the NATO national plan with the Chamber. I said we should send it in by 31 December, and I will certainly share it with the Chamber. You will receive the plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u356	Can we get that before Christmas?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u357	That's what I'm trying to do. I'm not sure it's going to work, but it's what I'm trying to do. Let me turn to the specific example of the conflict prevention team. Turns out that's not as easy as thought. You might have thought that. So it's really a team. The quartermasters are still working, so it's all in the making. Nor is it intended to prevent a global conflict or something like that. Contacts with civil society organisations and businesses have shown that they lack a clear point of contact with the Defence Department when it comes to working together in the context of conflict prevention. That's what's gonna happen. With that team, we're trying to tighten those tires. That's how it's decorated. I imagine that Mr Bosman will have questions about this, so we can continue to talk about it in another debate, if we have some more ideas about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u358	That seems very sensible, because when I hear it so short, it even seems to me that you can bring people together for the support around Irma on St.Maarten. Those are things that shoot me in the head. But if the Minister knows something more that could be put in a letter and send it to the Chamber, then I am absolutely prepared to think further about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u359	Sure. I will. Then we can talk about that further. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 43 by Mrs Popken and others I really must advise against it, because it is contrary to international law. The motion in part No. Forty-four of Mrs. Popken's is about the drug cartels. In my reply, I have been positive about the role we play in this. I should like to ask you the following question. We're re-assessing the entire civilian-military cooperation. JenV is in charge of this. We are, of course, not the first drug to be used against drug cartels. If necessary, the Department of Defense will support it. I have just said something about this in my reply. We do so often, but always temporarily and locally, from the point of view of assistance. The choice of means, where Defense is then a means, is up to JenV. We'll see if we can deliver. As the motion now stands, I must therefore dissuade her, because we are now simply recalibrating her. As far as I'm concerned, you can arrest her, too. Then we can discuss this further in the debate on the review of civil-military cooperation. But I'll leave that to you. That's how I'm supposed to dissuade her. The Secretary of State will deal with the motion in section No. 45. The motion in part No. I could accept 46 from Mrs Popken if there was no objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u360	I'll check to see if anyone has any objections. If not, the motion becomes part No. 46 taken over. I see there are no objections.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u361	Then the motion to part No. 47 by Mrs Diks and Mrs Belhaj on the establishment. I could take that, too, if there's no objection. It is about the process of participation, a bit like we did in the debate on the Defence Memorandum. But I also have to ask you whether there is any objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u362	Does any of the members object to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u363	I have a bit of a problem with the term 'voice process', because 'voice' gives a certain idea, namely that the ideas must be used or not. That's a certain pattern of expectation that I have some doubts about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u364	Does that mean you want the motion to be put to the vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u365	It depends on how the Minister is going to assess this and whether she says that participation is a reasonably defined term and that she is going to use it. How is she gonna invite people to these conversations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u366	I imagine I'll talk to the Chamber about that. In the Defence Note we also discussed which sessions we would and would not organise. We'll have some time to do that, too. As far as I'm concerned, it doesn't mean that I have to take over everything that's said one-on-one, if that's your question. When we organized that around the Defence Note, we didn't. That's how I look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u367	Maybe an explanation. I thank the Minister, of course, for the idea of adopting the motion. When I wrote down the word "speech trajectory," I immediately thought: that seems a bit of a term from spatial planning. That's not what I meant. I mean specifically as the Minister points out. I would almost say that I am concerned about the involvement in the review paper of anyone who wants to do so. Since the motion has been taken over, I suppose we don't have to change that word either. We can do it with the explanation given by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u368	I see Mr Bosman nodding in agreement. All Members are therefore in agreement with the adoption of this motion by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u369	Then that's what we'll do, Mr. Chairman. I shall then refer to the motion in part No. 52. It's about cyber and the satellite side. Mrs Bruins Slot has explained once again why she is submitting it now and why she has made the motion for a resolution so long. That's how the motion is framed. I also understand that we need to work on it. I could take that, too, if there's no objection. This is a bit in line with Mrs Popken's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u370	I'll take a look around. Are there any Members who object to this? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u371	The judgment on the motion in part No. 53 I would like to leave to the Chamber. It strongly supports our ambition. I feel it as a support in the back, as Mrs Bruins Slot has also explained to us at VWS that what we are doing is important, also in the context of getting people acquainted with Defence, and that this can also be important for the future of Defence. I should therefore like to leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 54 by Mrs Karabulut. Mrs Karabulut understands that I support most of everything in the recitals. However, I must advise against the motion. I cannot now, on behalf of the government, refrain from participating in the European Peace Facility. We have made a positive contribution to this, albeit very moderate. I have made the very critical comments that the Chamber has made in this regard in the IAB. This is still in the design phase. It's also premature. Maybe we'll find it's not going well. Then we can talk about that again. Right now, I have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u372	Should I conclude that the Minister has not been completely open and honest? The Minister has serious objections, but she says: we are still slightly positive. Why shouldn't that be reversed, especially when everything is still in its early stages? That is to say, we are negative, provided that these objections are met. Then you follow the line that you don't want a European army, that you're very critical about this facility, et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u373	This is not how it was put in by the Chamber during the preliminary AO over the RBZ. At that time, I indicated the cabinet's position, namely that we have a moderate positive view of what Mrs Mogherini has said, but that we have many critical comments on the outcome. What's the deal? What's it gonna mean? What's it gonna cost? We thought it was way too much money at all. I have already made all these comments. That's how we put it in there. I didn't get another assignment from the Chamber for the RBZ either. The whole EPF is still in the design phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u374	The war jar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u375	It depends on what it's gonna be. It is also very far from the European army. I am sure you also know that this is primarily the area of the Secretary of State. You can refer to them next week or the following week, when preparing the RBZ on 4 and 5 December. It is, I am sure you know, also primarily the area of the Secretary of State. You can then refer to them here next week or the following week, in the preparation of the RBZ on 4 and 5 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u376	I have to conclude, then, that the Minister of Defence has for the time being allowed that European army to be messed up and that Mrs Belhaj is right about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u377	I totally disagree with that. This is really far from the European army. This is really something completely different. We shall be watching this at all times. I will now come to the assessment of Mr Stoffer's motion and others, who have said something about the European army. The motion in part No. I should also advise against 55 of Mrs Karabulut's 55. The advanced presence in the Baltic States and Poland is an ongoing all-encompassing activity, which remains necessary as long as Russia perseveres in its present position. There is no evidence at present that Russia would behave differently. We have also clearly indicated this to the Chamber. It has also been discussed with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u378	We have also discussed this at length, Mrs Karabulut. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u379	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The room is always in conversation. Now we're talking again, that's what I want to say to the Minister. But my question is this. The Minister writes that she wants to continue with this as a deterrent. But in her letter, she also writes about dialogue. Can the Minister explain in detail later in a letter how the dialogue with the Russians is sought, at what level and with whom? I would like that very much, even if it is just to open a mouse hole to find a little less cold war rhetoric and a little more relaxation with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u380	I will see if we can say anything about this in the preparation of the NATO ministerial. That's what I always have to do with the State Department. But I have spoken with you before about how we are in dialogue and conversation, because these two things, namely deterrent and dialogue, have to go together. I agree with you very much. There's no other way. You have to stay in a credible conversation. That is what we will take with us in the preparations for NATO ministerial. Nevertheless, I therefore advise against this motion. The judgment on the motion in part No. 57 by Mrs Belhaj and Mr Bosman on the training facility and PESCO I would like to leave to the Chamber. We can certainly explore that. I said something about that in my term. The next set of PESCO projects will have to be submitted by November next year, so we have plenty of time to look at them and do so in a coordinated manner. The motion in part No. I would advise against Mrs Belhaj's 58. That won't be a surprise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u381	Mrs Belhaj has another question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u382	Some things come as a surprise after all. Here's what I'm asking. You did indeed send a letter to the Chamber in June stating that you intend to do so. But you cannot say that you do not think that I, as a Member of Parliament, have the right to receive all information on the financial implications and on the usefulness and need of the intention to reconsider before continuing that review? You're not gonna keep that information from me, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u383	No, I'm definitely not gonna do that. I also said in my term that I would inform the Chamber about it. But this motion states that no further steps should be taken and so on. I object to that. Of course, I will inform the Chamber about what is happening. I have even explained to you that we are working together on the plan and what it will cost. We didn't send that letter for nothing on July 11th. The Chamber could have raised them at any time and involved them in debates. We just went down that path. I would advise against this motion, but I will, of course, send you that information, because it is also up to the Chamber to look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u384	I asked about it at the WHO Material. There's not really an answer to that. I'm not saying you can't take any steps. I would ask you to inform the Chamber before you take any steps with regard to that review. If you continue this review and inform the Chamber afterwards, we will have a problem, because I cannot really see what all the financial implications are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u385	I gave Mrs Belhaj, in her first term, the overall situation with regard to finance. I have also indicated to the Chamber that it is not in that sense a review that we have made an agreement with the municipality of Amsterdam. We have therefore made a review for ourselves. I've indicated the defense's arguments. We have discussed this with the College of B and W of Amsterdam, with Alderman Kock. We made a deal with that. That appointment went through the college, which has been communicated to the board and which has been communicated by me to the Chamber. I will inform the Chamber and keep it informed about the further work that is being carried out. Nevertheless, I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u386	Mrs. Karabulut, do you really have a new question? Because we have really talked about this at length. It is also a motion from a colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u387	Yes, certainly, Mr President, because I have not been able to ask this question before. It's a very short one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u388	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u389	The Minister said: we made agreements together and there is consensus. But together you make arrangements together, and from the side of the municipality there is a lot of noise and a kink in the cable. I would therefore like to call on the Minister to use a less harsh wording and to look for a solution. Because she can say that it is an appointment, but from the municipality that is experienced completely differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u390	I said mine, namely that I do not share that in any way and that, if so, I do not talk about it through the Chamber or the newspaper. I'd like to talk about that in a normal administrative consultation. Then the motion to part No. 59, by Mr Kerstens. I can take it from here. I have already explained that I started with an in-depth inventory of the home front, into the current offer of services. We will explain this further in the presentation of the Veterans' Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u391	Does any of the Members object to taking over this motion on veterans? No, that's not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u392	Then the motion to part No. 60 by Mr Kerstens. I really have to advise against it, because it says that I must make a timetable and procedure in consultation with the Chamber. Of course I'll involve the Chamber. I have also been positive about the motion tabled by Mrs Diks and Mrs Belhaj, but I am not going to make a timetable in consultation with the Chamber. This is really our job. I sincerely hope that what I have said to Mrs Diks and Mrs Belhaj will give you sufficient comfort, but it is ultimately up to me and the cabinet to organise the process, the procedure and the timetable, because it is our review. We shouldn't sit on each other's chairs. So I really shouldn't recommend this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u393	If I can offer the Minister a little more comfort, I would be happy to do so, saying that it is indeed not meant to be. The Minister and the Secretary of State will come up with a note. I was concerned that it is simply clear when we can expect something and how certain pieces fit together, among other things the visions of the armies. So it is not intended to sit in your seat. We will undoubtedly find all kinds of things, but you do not have to dim with us whether it should be 16 February or 16 March. You'll see for yourself, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u394	I'll read it like that, so I'll stick with the dissuade, but I'll take what you say. I'll let you know how I see the trial. I still have to respond to Mrs Diks and Mrs Belhaj's motion, so I can just take this with me so that the process is clear as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u395	I am, of course, more than willing to delete those two words 'in consultation'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u396	Okay. I will continue to be more comfortable with Mrs Diks' motion, so I will continue to dissuade this motion, but I can take the points you just mentioned, so that they are included. On the motion in part No. 63 on a European army, by Mr Stoffer and Mrs Bruins Slot, I leave the judgment to the Chamber. I'll do that, of course. As you know, I have already clearly inserted our position into the IAB. I fully share what's written here. If the motion is adopted, I would also be happy to convey it formally to the French and German governments. Then the motion to part No. 64. I can also leave the judgment to the Chamber. Let's see. The motion in part No. I think that 65 is completely unnecessary. I'd advise against it. By the way, there will be a debate on this tomorrow. The motion in part No. 66 I must also advise against. It is by no means the case that it is only about financial interests. The motion in part No. 67 I am also going to advise against, because I have discussed this extensively in the context of the STUDY annual report. What is stated in this motion is in no way consistent with what I said there. That brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u397	I understand that the Secretary of State is responding to the two amendments. Thank you very much to the Minister for her contribution. I now turn to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u398	Mr. Chairman. Before I come to the assessment of the motions and the amendments, I would first like to answer two more questions. The first one is from Mrs. Bruins Slot. She asked for confirmation of the question of whether I would like to inform the Chamber of what the discussions on international cooperation have brought about in a broad sense. It is not just about purchasing, but also about further development. Of course, I promised. I have also said that I try as much as possible to include this in regular reporting moments. If, for example, I inform you about storage stocks and ammunition, I think it would be a good way to involve this in the annual report, for example. That's what I'd like to suggest. If there is something spectacular or if we have new intentions, then of course the Chamber will be informed. Mr Bosman asked about the anchoring of participation in training. In the initial training courses there is now attention to participation. This is part of the curriculum, especially in training for joint commanders. Those are the future heads of the service units. So that's where it is explicitly in the curriculum; sorry, chairman, curriculum is always a difficult word. I think that is what you are trying to do, because they are the ones who simply need to apply it properly. That's what you said yourself. They must be well aware of what is expected of them in the formal and informal sense. That has made room for this too. The same applies to the co-determination committee. It also fills time in the training courses. Courses are also provided for employees who take part in the participation committee. There are therefore several ways in which this has been implemented. I see Mr Bosman nodding, so I think he is satisfied with the answer. I shall now turn to the assessment of the motions and the amendments. A number of things are in motions and others in amendments. In general, I think that we have explicitly exchanged with the Chamber what is important for our staff when it comes to a new pension scheme and new working conditions results. I shall return in a moment to the motions that have been tabled on this subject. The amendment in part No. Mr Kerstens and Mr Karabulut had tabled a motion for a resolution. I absolutely share the view that staff is urgently needed and that concrete appreciation is appropriate. However, as you know, the resources in the supplementary item are intended for the expansion of impact, for cyber and for employership. That is what I said in my speech. Of course, some of these resources can be used for working conditions. However, the talks have been suspended. At present, therefore, there is no concrete proposal for use. You also understand that I am not talking to you about this, but, of course, with the unions. Because it's a conversation between employer and employee. Unfortunately, we're not ready yet. As soon as there is agreement on a concrete proposal relating to this, the funds will of course be transferred and we will spend that money. That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u399	At the moment when the Secretary of State offers room by offering funds and so says that the money is in principle available, then it may come to an agreement. Unlike furious Defense personnel, who once again feel put in the last place in terms of working conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u400	As Mrs Karabulut probably knows very well, you make agreements with each other at the table when you enter a negotiation. I do the same in consultation with the unions. I think it's part of the employer-employee relationship. I think that is where the consultation should take place. You have room to fill that out. I just informed you about that. I told you that we see room for action on these points. So that conversation and its interpretation really take place at another table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u401	It strikes me that the Secretary of State does not give up at home when she is addressed to her responsibility, when we ask her to make something concrete and to take concrete action to put the staff first. I think that irony is also the reason why yesterday's discussion broke.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u402	Two parties at the table are always needed to reach an agreement. That is always the case, and that is also true here. The negotiations will take place at that table and they will have to take place again at that table. As we agreed on a result earlier in consultation, I still assume that we share the common interest, both the power stations and the employer, that we will find a solution quickly. I believe that our staff deserve a good pension scheme and a good working conditions agreement. We share that interest, so it is also in the interests of both parties to get together quickly and to find a solution. Because that's what our staff deserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u403	That gives the amendment to item No. 41 Judgment Room?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u404	I told you not to tell me. Then I shall go to the amendment to item No. Forty-two members, Mr Kerstens and Mr Karabulut. I just said something about it. Unfortunately, the calls were suspended last night. I continue to stress it: as soon as possible in consultation with the unions, in order to reach an agreement preferably before the end of the year. If that is not possible, I would, of course, like to explore with the Minister how we can give concrete substance to the appreciation. In doing so, I am always looking for a way that is not at the expense of all the other necessary investments, which we have also identified here, shared with you, and which you have also agreed to. Also, as regards the coverage of this proposal, there are all kinds of investment projects on which you have already given your agreement. I therefore advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u405	The amendment in part No. 42 has advised against judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u406	Yes. Then I'll move on to the assessment of the motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. 45 by Mrs Popken on the Van Braam Houckgeest barracks. We have had this debate a few times. In 2012 this Chamber made the decision to leave Doorn and move to Vlissingen. I have indicated that our predecessors and we have been working on the implementation of that decision. That decision is still pending. I have also indicated that I think it is very important for participation to be properly involved in the discussion on what the barracks look like. That's why we've asked an external, an old-igk, to accompany that process. Those conversations are still going on. That is why I temporarily suspended the tender, because I think it is important that there is room for that. I indicated in the first term that I am concerned about the outflow. That is why the Minister and I have said: we must continue to look at the strength of the corps's future. That's why we're monitoring it. I have already made a number of commitments towards Mrs Diks and Mrs Belhaj. We will continue to monitor them. I will continue to inform you of this, as I have promised. I will give substance to the decision that has already been taken and come back when the final outcome is there. I told you this will be next year. So I'm deceiving the motion, Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to the Diks/Christmas motion on part number one. 48. I'm facing a dilemma with this motion. I just indicated that if you want to get together, you always need two parties to sit down and make the most of each other. I have indicated that I want to make the most of this effort, but that it is not just a matter of defence to come to an agreement. It is, of course, also in the case of the works councils. To this end, you must sit at the table with each other and have every intention of achieving this with each other. Now it's just a call to the government, and that's why I'm betraying her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u407	At this hour, too, let's get up! There just needs to be a collective agreement. I had to think for a moment, because at the very beginning of this debate it was said that you had your door open. I actually think that's a very reactive attitude. I'd like you to pro-actively raise your hand. I understand that this is difficult when you have to negotiate with a party with which it is equally difficult, I understand. I remember that, too. Yet I call upon you to do so. You have heard, also in other motions that have been tabled, that the Chamber wants to do very much more for the defence personnel. That also means that, as far as I am concerned, you should take a more active attitude. I have therefore also described it very kindly with'reasonably'. I even added a mini nuance. I sincerely hope you will accept this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u408	The tricky thing is that another party at the table has suspended the negotiation. He said I'm not coming to the table right now. I understand what you're saying, and I've promised you how I'm in it. I said I think our interests are equal. I believe that we should take a step as soon as possible before 1 January 2019. But I must also note that, whenever it comes to suspension, one of the parties is suspended. In this case, I haven't been. If a party suspends, that means that that party must also decide what it will do. I also say it takes two to tango. We will have to come to an agreement. I have indicated to you that I share the notion you have expressed. That is also what I said in this debate. It really is a matter of two parties who have to sit down with each other in order to reach agreement. With that, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u409	I have heard this explanation several times today. If you ask me again, I'll probably hear the same thing again. Can we just leave it at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u410	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u411	Then the very last question tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u412	It's really very important. That story you're dancing together, we've heard 30 times today. We all get that now. I think so. The search is: are you going to put a hand out to the unions tomorrow morning to invite them? Are you going to say that although it has been suspended and technically it means that I should not have to do it, I heard the Chamber last night and I know that it is incredibly important that I sit at the table with you. That's why I invite you, the unions, to join me in the conversation? You could also choose that route.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u413	That invitation always stands. Another party has chosen not to come to the table for a moment, because they do not agree. That invitation is standing and always possible. But one has to want one's own. There are a number of things going on. I really think this is a matter between employer and employee centers. We have already talked quite extensively about something that really lies between employer and employee. I understand your call and I absolutely share your intention, but I also believe that you should not sit on the employer's seat. Nor are the employees' organizations, by the way. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 49. This motion reminds me of a motion tabled during the debate on the airport decisions. I have, of course, indicated that we always want to go round the table in good consultation with the local authorities, but it can also always be said that a decentralised government simply does not agree with Defence. We recently had a council that, after we had held all kinds of consultations, spokesmen and so on, said no to the installation of a radar station. Sometimes you don't have shared interests and you don't get close to each other either. We now come back to the discussion we just had: in all reasonable terms 'yes', but it is not the case that the defence sector can respond to everything. And that's how I read the motion. I don't think that's what you're talking about, but I'm supposed to read it this way, so I'm gonna have to discourage the motion. I also do that because, in the first recital, you, Mrs Diks, express a value judgment that I do not recognize in all respects. Then I'll move on to the motion to part number. 50. This motion, I believe, is supported by Chamberwide. I have also made it very clear in the first term that the Minister and I see the commitment our staff has made over the last few years and also over the past year. For example, the Minister addressed national efforts. The national commitment was enormous, especially given all the international commitment. We see that and we also think that we should do something about it. So I will take over this motion as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u414	Does one of the members object to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u415	It might sound weird. This is widely worn, but not everyone is in the Chamber. It would miss the momentum for those who are not in the Chamber to vote in favour of this motion. So I wanted to ask you to put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u416	Well, of course, if a motion has been taken over, that means that the entire Chamber, all 150 Members, has agreed to it. Members represented here represent 150 members. Otherwise, this will again be the argument to put every motion taken to the vote. It is precisely the beauty of taking over that we do not have to raise our hands. It's just on the list Tuesday and so it would be my call to... The motion may be taken over on the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u417	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u418	Okay, okay. If any of the members have any objections, I have to honor it. This motion will then be put to the vote. The motion gets judgment room, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u419	Yeah, that's part of it, I guess. I have no idea what the arrangements are for these kinds of cases. I've told you how we stand in it. Then the motion to part No. 51 over from camping-, to hotel-, to home wifi. I've indicated that we'd like to look into that, and so I'm giving this motion judgment Chamber. Then I shall move on to Mrs Belhaj's motion on item No. 56 on diversity and inclusiveness. I think that's a fair call to get a look at. I'm giving her judgment, Room. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll move on to the motion to part number. 61. In the first term, I said that I do not want any deterioration as of 1 January 2019, neither of the value of the pension arrangements nor of the pay slips in a material sense. For me, that is why I find a continuation of the scheme a bad thing. That's why you're going to have negative income effects on your paycheck. The same applies to the scheme proposed by the ABP. For that, you're gonna find that in your pension claims. That is precisely why I want and have proposed a different proposal. That is why I have come before this motion until the verdict. The call in this motion actually leads to negative income effects on your pay slip of 1 January as of 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u420	One question. The trade unions and the State Secretary disagree on what should happen to the pension scheme on 1 January 2019. If they continue to disagree, then on 1 January 2019 there is a deterioration in the pension scheme for all military personnel in the Netherlands. This motion calls for this to be avoided, but the attitude of the Secretary of State on one side of the table and the trade unions on the other side of the table thus leads to a deterioration of the pension scheme for all military personnel in the Netherlands from 1 January 2019. That's too bad!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u421	No, the motion calls for something else. The motion calls for the current regime to continue, leading to a deterioration. On 1 January, this regulation will lead to a very specific deterioration in the pay slip. I don't want to. What I do not want is the scheme proposed by the ABP, which leads to a deterioration in the value of your pension claims. I don't want to. What I want is to prevent both. That is exactly why I made a proposal myself. I still want that, and "door open," "invitation," whatever terms you want to link to it, so I say to Mrs Diks, is still my starting point. But most of all, I want, frankly, immediately, a new, balanced pension scheme, which ensures that you build up your pension in a normal way, a pension that is normally paid in terms of pension contributions, and that you do not leave the service with a huge pension gap. I also don't want you to think every year on January 1, how much has the pension contribution increased? That's my goal. If that's not possible, I'd like to avoid those other negative effects. But your motion says: make sure you probably have a scheme by 1 January where you will see a negative result on your pay slip, because you will have to pay more pension contributions. I don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u422	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u423	I almost get the impression that the group chairman of D66 had the media training of this Secretary of State. I asked the simple question: if the parties disagree, is there simply a deterioration in the pension scheme? The Secretary of State puts everything in the hands of the unions. My simple statement is: if you do not agree with the unions before 1 January 2019, there is therefore a deterioration in the pension scheme of all military personnel in the Dutch defence sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u424	I have expressed my intention for what I want to arrange before 1 January 2019. That intention still stands. She still stands like a house, and I keep repeating that intention, precisely in the interests of all our employees. But your motion will cause a deterioration on the paycheck. I responded to that, also by dissuading her, because that is what I absolutely do not want. Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 62 Mr Voordewind's motion, Mr Bosman, Mrs Bruins Slot and Mr Stoffer's motion on engine maintenance in Turkey. I have indicated that we are trying to get as much maintenance in the Netherlands as possible. To this end, we strongly cooperate with the business community. At least on the request in this motion, in order to ensure that as much engine maintenance actually takes place in the Netherlands as possible, I can give judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u425	That was the last motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u426	That's the final motion, Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to thank the Chamber for its input, partly on behalf of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u427	Thank you to both rulers, thank you to the members for their input and to all the support, both from the government and from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-11.u428	The votes on the motions will be taken next Tuesday. I believe that the legislative proposal and the amendments will be voted on in the first or second week of December.
