ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the oral questions. We shall begin with Mr Sneller's question to the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I would also like to welcome, about the report that a van crashed De Telegraaf's head office. I call Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I woke up this morning, like many people in this room, with horrible images: a burnt-out van that stabbed half out of the pit of De Telegraaf's head office. I am shocked by the attack on this newspaper and with it also on the free press, and I can only imagine what this must be like for the employees of De Telegraaf. I'd like to wish them a lot of good luck from this place. I also have a great deal of respect for the message from the main editor: we are not being intimidated. The police picked up this attack properly this morning. I would like to hear from the Minister what he can say at this stage about the perpetrators and their intentions. But I'm not just shocked, Mr. Chairman. I'm frustrated too, because this is not an incident, it's a trend. We have been working on this subject for a long time. Last week, it was an anti-tank weapon at Panorama's headquarters. Dutch journalists John van den Heuvel and Paul Vugts have been under permanent surveillance for months. These are scenes that do not belong in an open society like the Netherlands. The question is therefore what we are talking about. Of course, we can never rule out the possibility that evildoers attack, but I think it is our democratic duty to do more than we are doing now. Like the Dutch Association of Journalists, D66 has been advocating a special protected status for journalists for more than a year, such as police officers and aid workers who have, so that reports are always recorded, investigation is always initiated and penalties can be increased. At a hearing held earlier this year by the Chamber on my initiative, where many of the Members present here were present, we were told the need for these measures to be heard in a very compelling manner. My appeal to the Minister is: is he finally prepared to embrace this measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. I have heard of this violent action early this morning and I begin by stressing that this is unacceptable. I also notified the editor-in-chief of De Telegraaf this morning. I have indicated here that I am very impressed by the people of De Telegraaf that they will not be intimidated and go back to work to make the newspaper. This has a huge impact on ordinary people. Freedom of the press is part of freedom of expression and is enshrined in our Constitution. Journalists should simply be able to do their job unhindered and safe. That is what we stand for as a cabinet, and I stand for it as a minister. I have been in contact with Mr Slob, who is responsible for the media. We have said that we want to move forward quickly in the discussion with the Dutch Association of Journalists, also in response to Mr Sneller's question. I'll get back to you on that. I also spoke with the police and with the mayor of Amsterdam and the NCTV to see what is happening at the moment. The triangle of police, justice and municipality will discuss the situation this afternoon and will also assess whether additional measures are needed. The Department of Security and Security of the NCTV now also has active contact with the municipality to think about this. I cannot comment on this matter at the moment. I think we really need to keep our heads down and let the police do their job, like the police did last week in the same horrible attack with a rocket launcher on the magazine Panorama. On 12 June, I wrote a letter to you on behalf of my colleague, Mr Slob, on the protection of journalists. I said that we are taking a number of measures to protect journalists. I have spoken with the Secretary of the NVJ and agreed that we will take the consultations on these measures personally next time; that is next week. I will continue to do so strongly, because I believe that we as a society must show very clearly that this is not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-2.u5	I welcome the Minister's words. I fully share his view that it is unacceptable. I'm happy with the way it's been picked up and turned on now. It is only in my view crucial that we move towards a structural solution, and that is what the discussion is about. I am glad that the Minister will be here in person next week. My first question was whether he would be prepared to ensure that these unambiguous national agreements also apply to this vulnerable professional group which performs a public task and which therefore applies not only to police officers and ambulance staff, but also to journalists. This rather than the measures which the Minister indeed communicated to the Chamber on 12 June with regard to the development of a common standard. These are all important things, but I think that the signal should be broader and that we should not just go into the overdrive on the basis of this incident, which is quite right, but that we should solve it structurally. It is exactly a year tomorrow that my colleague Jan Paternotte stood here when the NVJ's report was published and asked questions and asked to embrace the approach. It is now a year further and this approach is still being discussed in its parts. I think it is important that this Minister does indeed send that message and say: I embrace it and I am going to introduce it. Again, my question is whether he is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-2.u6	The protection of journalists, and indeed the people around them, is a great asset to me, because of the free speech, but also because of their personal protection. Let's make that very clear. I believe that this should be not only in words, but also in deeds. That is one of the reasons why, at the beginning of this year, I re-launched the bill that was before us on source protection. That went through your Chamber with a unanimous vote. On this point, too, I would like to assure you that I will be speaking with representatives of the profession in the coming week to see how we can actually take a structural approach to this. I think it is too early to put that into practice, but you may ask me later what exactly are the actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-2.u7	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-2.u8	I do not think it is too early after a year, but I appreciate the efforts of this minister and I ask him to keep us informed of both the police investigation into this case and the structural approach. I look forward to the actual actions on that point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you. Then I'll go to Mrs. Kuiken on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-2.u10	The underworld is getting more brutal, bolder and bizarre and there is only one answer to that: enough force for the police. Until then, perhaps something still needs to be done, and that is why my question to the Minister is whether he is considering securing other media companies and, if so, how. 'Cause this isn't an incident. This is a trend. What's the answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-2.u11	First of all, I want to make sure that the local authority, the local triangle, are in good contact with each other, because the rocket launcher to Panorama and this exploded van at De Telegraaf have of course both taken place in Amsterdam. But I would also like to take this issue, as I say to you, into account in the discussion that I am going to discuss next week in the framework of that steering committee, including the board of the NVJ, to see what exactly we see as a threat and what some appropriate measures are, as they were in the letter of 12 June.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-2.u12	Then Mr Arno Rutte, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-2.u13	Mr President, that follows. As the Minister and the questioner have already outlined, there seems to be a pattern. First the attack on the Panorama and now on De Telegraaf, not coincidentally, I think, the media that are solid on crime journalism. In any case, the journalists who work there also indicate that they see this pattern clearly. So there seems to be a new way of working in the underworld, so that the journalists can literally be targeted. You don't want to know what would have happened if this van had been driven into De Telegraaf. Can the Minister, insofar as he can do so in public here, promise that this pattern, namely that the underworld is targeting media companies with criminal journalists, is part of the investigation so that these perpetrators can be caught in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-2.u14	I will come to your Chamber with a follow-up letter before the summer recess on the targeted approach I announced on the issue of undermining crime. In any case, it is now clear that last Friday, the rocket launcher at Panorama, is included. In any case, we must also involve these types of cases in the fight against undermining crime. How exactly we are going to deal with that is verse two, but I fully endorse what Mr Rutte says. That is that, as a society, but certainly as a Justice and Security and as a minister, we must draw a very clear line in this type of action by organised crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-2.u15	An attack on journalism is an attack on all of us. We're shocked. In the letter of 12 June, you state that you do not yet see any reason for setting up a 'team of threatened journalists'. I would like to do something more tangible for the journalists. Would the Minister be prepared to set up a hotline where journalists from anywhere in the Netherlands can go? A police hotline, one region, where journalists can call and submit their stories, so that at least we can do something?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-2.u16	I do think that's a thought to take. I also discussed this with the Secretary of the NVJ. We need to look at the ability to pick up not only this kind of really disgusting excesses in terms of threat and intimidation, but also subtle, smaller forms of intimidation. Journalists should be able to use it. I will immediately admit that I will take this thought up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-2.u17	The attacks on De Telegraaf and Panorama are shocking and unacceptable. My group also sympathizes very much with the staff. In an earlier debate, we talked about the security of centres that are crucial for freedom of expression. At that time, we were talking about debate centres. The minister said he was going to talk about its security. I understand he's also having a conversation with the NVJ, among other things. Does he also take into account not only the acute threat situation that exists today, but also what effect a sense of threat can have, precisely on the freedom that the press experiences to express itself and to really be a free press? Maybe he can look at a more permanent government responsibility for that security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-2.u18	You're right to make a point. What matters to me is a structural approach. It is extremely nasty and painful that we are talking about this now in the wake of two incidents that are so rapid. But you know on other occasions, and I also mentioned this in the letter of 12 June, that I think that we should move towards a structural approach that will ensure that the free speech, whether it is via the press or through a debate centre, can simply go ahead in the Netherlands. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-2.u19	In my opinion, there is no difference in opinion in the Chamber as to how disgusting an attack by the free press is, precisely because we know that this free press is affecting our democracy. The moment the press gets hit, our democracy gets hit. I am also under little illusions that the perpetrators of this kind of thing are well placed to the precise position of the Chamber. But in the meantime we see that, for example, the Personal Security Service, say the service that keeps people like Paul Vugts and John van den Heuvel safe at the moment, is struggling with a shortage of staff. So the question of the SP is actually very clear. How long is it gonna be before that staff shortage is resolved? We need these people very much to protect our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-2.u20	As I pointed out in the general consultation of the Police last week, we are putting extra emphasis on recruitment. It is a profession, a function which, of course, requires certain qualifications. We need to get enough and good people. Once again, we should not be able to offer protection where it is necessary at any time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-2.u21	Thank you.
