ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome everyone, including the people in the public gallery, and the Minister of Finance in trade union K. The next item is the debate on the reflection paper on the deepening of EMU. Mr Tony van Dijck is already ready for his contribution on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the future of the euro. We have all read in the newspapers the news of the Greetings Koalition in Germany today and yesterday. I hold my heart for the future of the euro with Mr Schultz as Minister for Foreign Affairs in Germany. If there is one europhile in Europe, it is Mr Schultz. The future of the euro. So the question is: does the euro still have a future? No one dares ask that question in this house. If the crisis has made one thing clear in recent years, it is that the euro has failed. A single currency of nineteen totally different countries does not work and will never work. The euro is a historic mistake: one size fits none. The euro had to bring economies together, but the opposite has happened. Greece, for example, would have been quite different now if they had just had the drachma. Their debt at the start of the euro was less than 100 billion. In the meantime, it has quadrupled in seven years. That would never have happened with the drachma. It would have been possible to stimulate the economy by devaluating their currency and reducing interest rates. They would not have had to accept 375 billion in emergency aid from other Member States; €35,000 per Greek, money they could never repay. It would also have been better for the Netherlands. Now we're at 20 billion and we can whistle at our dime. The euro has deprived countries of the currency and interest instrument. We can only compete by reducing labour costs, and we have seen that. "Everyone benefits from the euro" is the adage of this cabinet. But who? Unworking Netherlands! Since the introduction of the euro, real disposable income and consumption in the Netherlands have fallen, while the economy grew by more than 10%. So that whole euro didn't get us anything in the wallet. Pensioners are also the victims. Thanks to the ECB's kamikaze policy, our pension funds are flooded and our savings are evaporated. However, we want to go on the road: more power for Brussels and even bigger pots of money for bankrupt countries and sick banks. The euro is only really finished once the transfer union has been achieved. A constant transfer of wealth from north to south, that's the idea. We're all running like lemmings to the abyss, and instead of turning around, they're going to run faster. In order to save the euro, astronomical amounts have been thrown over the last ten years. The EU budget is now 160 billion, 50 billion more than ten years ago; money distributed through all kinds of funds among the Member States with the Netherlands as the largest net contributor. The ECB has now bought up bonds for 2,500 billion, 2.5 trillion euros, supposedly to stimulate inflation but actually to keep the Italian debt payable. We have now spent 500 billion through emergency funds to prevent countries and banks from falling over. Through investment funds, we have provided another 500 billion in low-cost loans. The minister plays Russian roulette with our prosperity. Meanwhile, we guarantee the debts of other countries and banks up to 400 billion euros, €50,000 per working Dutchman and that has been built up over seven years. We are building up 50 billion a year guarantees to finance the Italian banks and the Italian debt. The Minister says the risks are limited. He says you should go to sleep. In the meantime, DNB has made a billion-dollar provision to cover any losses. But the worst part is that all this money bounce hasn't helped at all. Inflation is still too low, the euro is still too strong, unemployment is still too high and finances are still not in order in many countries. The countries of southern Europe are barely growing, are suffering from large deficits and have a mega-state debt. Italy has a public debt of 2,500 billion and a deficit of 1.6%, while the economy is doing so well now! Spain has a government debt of 100% and a deficit of 4.5%. But also the banks in southern Europe have billions in their stomachs, corpses in the closet, irrecoverable loans. Italy alone has over 300 billion in irrecoverable loans. For these countries and for these banks, this minister wants to be a guarantor. That's asking for trouble. The European Commission is now presenting a Sinterklaas package. Those aren't my words. Those were the words of Mr De Roos the day before yesterday. It's an appropriate name. Proposals that only amount to one thing: more power for Brussels and more money for the Club Med countries. The European Emergency Fund must be transformed into a European Monetary Fund. 500 billion is set up to provide liquidity support to banks and countries. The ECB wants full control of this pot of money. The budget must be increased, the rules must be reduced and a European minister must be appointed with his own pot of money. The European deposit guarantee scheme needs to get there quickly, because the countries in the south are falling apart, so we need to guarantee deposits quickly. Mr. Chairman. All that needs to be done quickly. The Commission wants to put all this misery in southern Europe on the board of the Dutch taxpayer. I see I've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u3	Yes. You've got that right. Finish, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u4	I'll skip something and then close up. As far as PVV is concerned, we must get out of the euro quickly. Since 2010, when the "no bail-out" clause died, I already say: the euro is not money, the euro only costs us money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u6	Meanwhile, the counter is at 400 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u8	When the financial crisis broke out, it became clear how the financial world parasitizes on the ordinary economy. It became clear how important countries are to take the hit for their people. Banks were saved everywhere, nationalized. The solution to the global financial market that gambles with just about everything was the national one. But the global power of financial capital was not addressed. And the financial crisis turned into a euro crisis. Within a very short time, Greece was written off by credit rating agencies and a huge flight of capital took place from the country. Because the Greek government could not save its banks, the euro area did. During the euro crisis with Greece, it became clear how much the euro had to save the financial market again in order to survive itself. The initial rule of the euro that countries would not be saved was broken in Greece. This also led to the creation of more powers, for example in the Eurogroup, and the further distance from the participation and supervision of the national Member States, from our Parliament. But also, for example, the ability to invest in times of headwind. We have seen that during the economic crisis, the countries in the euro area were doing significantly worse than those outside. Every day, the hard austerity policy, not only in Greece but also in our own country, leaves strong tracks. Next week, our care committee will be talking about 300,000 elderly people who cannot go to the nursing home and are therefore unnecessarily in hospitals. That has to do with this policy. Unfortunately, Greece has not been saved. A third of the population is living in bitter poverty and unemployment is still high by 20%, but is falling because young people are leaving the country. Investment is stagnant at the moment and the public debt is 180% higher than ever. Italy is at the economic level of 1997, three years before the introduction of the euro. In Germany and the Netherlands, the average citizen has not improved. Compensation for the labour factor in the economy, ordinary wages, has decreased by 10% to 15% since the introduction of the euro and that of capital has increased. The labour income ratio is what we call it, and it has fallen by a quarter. We make less, there's more to profits. And then we'll have superstate Europe that's keeping the euro alive, but how exactly does it solve Italy's sovereign debt? The Council of State made an analysis of the euro for our Chamber and mentioned several shortcomings. A defect that they did not see in advance, but that there is, is the influence of the liberalised financial market on the stability of our currency. And if we look at all the flaws we know, such as budgetary discipline, transfer of money from north to south, difference in economic growth, democratic deficit, perhaps with a European Parliament watching Germany where they would solve all these proposals, we will not finish the euro at all. Because we have not solved the problem of the financial market that can parasitize our economy. Further transfer of sovereignty does not make the euro a more stable currency, but keeps it as the casino currency it is now. We are talking today about: how to proceed? I can only see that we are still swimming in the trap of the euro. I would also like to talk about the importance of an alternative. I believe that the latter could be part of our commitment to the negotiations. It would be good if the Netherlands also explores an option other than the euro, or perhaps alongside the euro, such as a parallel currency. Because the option of swimming from outside the trap, I think it's much better than just swimming in that trap. I know one thing: then we will be caught by the financial market at some point. And it has no regard for the general interest, which we politicians should have. And yes, we are struggling with this debate, because taking a position on the many proposals of the European Commission, which sees a European solution to all problems, is extremely difficult. We don't know what Germany and France are going to do. We do read on the front page what the new coalition agreement in Germany means for our country, but I did not vote in those German elections. This is the democratic deficit. We are convinced that the euro will ultimately have no future as long as economies in Europe are so different. We are convinced that moving along will ultimately mean crashing. That is why I would like to know three things from the Minister. What is he going to do to reduce the power of the financial markets in the real economy and to stimulate discussion about it in Europe? Is he prepared to explore an option outside or alongside the euro and use it as a negotiating strategy in Europe? Is the government prepared to give the people the right to force a referendum on the euro, in a further deepening of the euro, where we are sure that more power goes to the European level? Mr. Chairman. Many proposals have been made in recent times and much has been done to save the euro. A European Monetary Fund, called a European Parliament, a European Minister of Finance, an own budget, an ECB President who says: whatever it takes, we save that euro. But that's all to avoid falling into the eye of the financial market storm. All to prevent our coin from being speculated. If we do not solve that, any solution for the euro, perhaps outside it or next to it, will be a sham solution, because the real problem lies where markets are liberalised, but it parasites our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u9	I welcome the progressive understanding of the SP, that they are finally seeing that the euro has no future. That's what I started my input with. Mrs Leijten actually comes to the same conclusion. But then I wonder why that took so long. In the meantime, we have advanced 375 billion in Greek aid. The SP has always supported that. Throw that money to Greece, those people are pathetic it was adagium. As of May 2010, I was the only one who said not a penny to Greece. Why didn't you support me all these years? I thought Greece would have been better off without the euro.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u10	Yes, I think Mr Van Dijck was just there when we also voted against the first package for Greece, because we said that all of this goes directly to the Dutch and German banks via the Acropolis, this is not an operation to save Greece, but to save the financial markets and something must be done about it. Yes, we did say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u11	Maybe the SP voted against once, but they were very quiet about the 375 billion in all those tranches, in all those Ecofin debates. I haven't heard about the ESM either. We even...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. This is just bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u13	We even have against...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u14	I'm okay with doing this, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u15	We've even acted against the ESM...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u16	...this is just...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u17	Finish your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u18	... and the PVV stood alone when we said: we have to get out of the euro because the euro has no future. And the SP didn't support us in that. I'm happy with the support from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u19	We have always made the analysis that the financial market is screwing us in the suit and the Greeks are screwing with it and that the euro has no future in that sense. That is what is in all our electoral programmes, and we have always argued so. We voted against the first aid package. It's always been in our election programs. So you can make a number here that we did not support you, but then you just do history forgery.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u20	Yes, Mr. Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mr. Chairman. Since 2010, I have been making a motion here almost every month to say goodbye to the euro. And the SP doesn't support me. So the SP focuses a bit on the financial markets. They are indeed a problem, but they are there, and we need them very badly to finance all these sovereign debts. So you're not gonna do anything about it. It is a question of whether we should pay for Italy's debts. That is the crucial point. That is not what we want, and that is why we need to get out of the euro. You do not support me in my plea to leave the euro.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u22	Well, Mr President, I think one of the questions I asked the Minister is whether he also wants to put the option of the euro or a currency next to the euro on the negotiating table and explore it for himself. I do not know exactly what you are putting into these motions, I think that the moment we say to tomorrow that we are leaving, this is a rash action. But that we have to think about an alternative to the euro, because in the end it has turned out to be a rash action, that has always been our position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u23	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr. Chairman. The debate on the euro is dominated by a forced bipolarity: you are in favour of the euro or you are against it. That is why it is important to hear a euro-realistic sound. The euro is there, so you have to deal with it. The Netherlands has a very important place in determining the future of the euro, as a medium-sized economy and as an advocate of the Calvinist tradition: a deal is a deal. Free to James 5, verse 12. As a supplier of one of the longest-standing government leaders in Europe, the Netherlands also really has the opportunity to plan a future of the euro that is being shaped and supported by the Member States. There is therefore an important task for this cabinet to take steps at this crucial moment, with the Brexit in sight and while we are still in a booming state, towards a monetary union where Member States keep the agreements they make with each other. A euro-realistic course also means recognizing that the euro has led to a transfer union. As in the Netherlands at the time of the guilder there were net money flows between provinces, there are net money flows between countries with the euro. But a limited part of the Dutchman feels enough European to be happy with that idea. There has been no North-South solidarity. In fact, it seems farther away than before. The idea that one can build a cultural bridge on the continent through the creation of a single currency union has for the time being proved to be a fairy tale. In order to increase mutual trust, it is necessary that all countries comply with the budgetary rules as agreed in the Stability and Growth Pact, including the Netherlands. As far as the general financial considerations are concerned, I have talked about the Joseph economy. If we agree that in bad times you may have a budget deficit of up to 3%, then in good times you must ensure that you do not pursue an expansionary fiscal policy. Only in this way will there be grain in the grain barns during the lean years that will undoubtedly come again, given the current fickle trade fairs and the overheated housing market. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union believes that confidence in the euro will only prove sustainable if 1. agreements within EMU are respected and 2. sanctions can be imposed in the event of a structural failure to comply with agreements. The determination of compliance with agreements must be objective. The imposition of possible sanctions remains a political process. But this was precisely the case with the European Commission, because the Member States never imposed sanctions on each other. Now that the Commission does not, what is the next step? How's the Minister looking at this? I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the Slob motion adopted in 2012, which calls on the government to support the establishment of exit conditions within EMU, so that it is clear that countries will exit if they do not comply with the agreements for a long time. That motion was supported by all parties in this Chamber, except by the four seats of GroenLinks. Is this minister still consciously and actively carrying out this motion? Mr. Chairman. For the Netherlands, it is important that Northern European budgetary discipline should become commonplace, including in the South. Since the axis of Germany-France will be dominant in the coming process, the aim of the Dutch government must be to build a coalition of medium-sized northern countries that can support the German side of that dominant axis. Finland, the Baltic States, Slovakia and Austria can be considered. The Christian Union sees a leading role for the Dutch Prime Minister, given his long track record. How does the Minister estimate this route? The Christian Union believes that a backstop, a backstop in the joint resolution fund, should be budget-neutral, so that its costs can be recovered from the European banking sector. Does the Minister agree? And what does he think, in addition to budgetary neutrality, of geographically neutral? Or are we okay with the Dutch or Northern European banking sector guaranteeing the South European? Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union believes that a European deposit guarantee scheme cannot be discussed because it entails European risk sharing. This is the period when we need to talk about risk reduction, both in terms of maintaining fiscal rules, and in terms of increasing capital requirements for banks, and in terms of unbundling government and banking sectors in the southern countries. This has already been mentioned by Mr Van Dijck. Does the Minister agree with me? Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. The Christian Union is taking a step forward towards a strong and positive future for the euro, but sees a leading role for the Member States rather than for the European Commission. First of all, a number of fundamental problems in the system must be solved. However, the Commission proposes minor improvements at the same time as further integration. Given the high financial risks in the current system, the Christian Union believes that existing agreements should be respected first, so that the euro becomes stronger in the event of major shocks. As a basis for future steps in EMU, the Christian Union wants to give the Dutch government the principles as mentioned earlier. The future of the Union is determined by the Member States, because the Member States form the Union. In the future of the euro, the Christian Union does not choose the way backwards, but the way forward. But that road is a substantially different one from the one outlined by the European Commission. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u25	This is a good story from Mr Bruins of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u27	But it is also a bit naive and perhaps it fits him a bit gullible, because the southern European countries do not comply with the budgetary arrangements. France does not comply with the budgetary commitments. France is a great sovereign country. If France wants to take the retirement age to 60 years, they will. If the deficit goes up to 4.5%, they will. If they really get into trouble because the capital market says "up to here and no further; we don't lend you anything anymore," then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u28	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u29	...this minister is ready with a check. So why should they comply with the budget agreements? They have this minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u30	What's the question, Mr. Tony van Dijck?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u31	My question is: what are you basing your naivety on to think that Southern European countries will ever comply with the budgetary agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u32	I fully share Mr Tony van Dijck's concern and analysis. I have very serious concerns, which I have also expressed in my text on budgetary discipline in southern Europe. I still fully support the Slob motion which says that exit criteria must be established. This means that if countries do not comply with the agreements we have made on this continent for a long time, those exit criteria must actually be applied. It must then be possible to temporarily expel a country from the euro until it complies with the commitments we have made in the Maastricht Treaty and in the Stability and Growth Pact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u33	The Christian Union is a coalition companion. I wonder whether this is a tough condition for the Christian Union: without exit criteria, we do not agree with any of the proposals that are now on the table. That would be a breaking point. Once again, I can imagine that, because otherwise we'll be crawling and the 400 billion bill that I've presented will just run up, up, up, up, up until we're all just fucking bankrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u34	Over the last 20 years, we have indeed seen that every step towards improving European monetary union also led to further integration. I am extremely concerned about that. The time has really come not to go further with integration without monetary union becoming a sound monetary union. For 20, 25 years we have been waiting for agreements that are so clear and so obvious. Those agreements really need to be kept before we can support further steps leading to a more Brussels-based or inclusive approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u35	The analysis is, of course, entirely correct that what the euro promised to be and become was not successful. One of the major shortcomings, which the Council of State also describes, is the power of the financial markets, for example on currency and on countries. With this, they were able to speculate against Greece, after which we had to save Greece. The population there is now unemployed and poor at home. Those are not good results. I certainly agree with Mr Bruins that it should be through the Member States if you continue to discuss the euro. I have asked the Minister for three things; I will get a response on my own. One of these things is that if we take steps towards a deepening of the euro, which involves the transfer of more powers. There's no other way to do that and it happens to the left or to the right. Is the Christian Union prepared to make a referendum possible if the people so wish?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u36	We also see this great influence of the financial markets, and we have the same concerns as the SP and Mrs Leijten. In particular, the interconnection of government and banks in southern countries such as Italy is a very serious problem, which was mentioned by Mr Van Dijck. The enormous debt in those countries is a problem. So it is really necessary that we stick to our commitments. Our government must do its utmost to ensure that we have a sound monetary union in Brussels. The instrument of the referendum, as we will know for a short time in this country in the form we have now, is not in the Christian Union's sight. It's a referendum way that doesn't work. We are therefore in favour of abolishing this form of referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u37	That was not the question, of course, because we know that debate. There should not even be a referendum on whether we want to hold the referendum or not. That's another debate. And it is quite possible that the Chamber will take the initiative to make it possible if the people so wish. That is what we have seen in the European Constitution. Apart from what you think about the instrument that we are about to abolish, you can say: if such a large treaty is to come, people must be able to force a referendum. Because it will have to be a treaty on the left or right. The measures taken in 2010-2012 to strengthen the euro and the introduction of the euro group are not really very good under Treaty law. They are illegal, is said here by Mr Van Dijck. In any case, they do not fit into the treaty; let's say that. So you need a new treaty, no matter where you go. I would say that when it comes to our money, people should be given the opportunity to force a referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u38	Yeah, clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u39	Is the Christian Union willing to take that glove together with the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u40	We have a representative democracy in the Netherlands. I see it as my duty as a representative of the people to cast that wall for the people we represent here. The Christian Union will also do everything in its power to make this possible. We do not currently have a referendum in a form other than the corrective referendum in the Netherlands. So that's something I can't anticipate at all. I think that this government should and can take a lot of steps first to ensure that we do not come to something more like a superstate ruled from Brussels. On the contrary, we must do our best to be a Union of Member States in everything, in which the Member States, and hence the Dutch Government, can take the lead on the future of this continent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u41	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After the detailed debates of the past few months, it is good that we are debating today with some Bigger Words, with a capital G and a capital W. We do that in the week when the moment passed that the fall of the Berlin Wall was longer ago than it was in total. I therefore belong to a generation that has grown up with the idea that peace and stability in the EU are self-evident. It is therefore easy to forget how special it really is what the EU has brought us, especially when we juggle with acronyms in a committee room above: SPS, SDRM, SRSP, SRF, EDGS, EMF et cetera. It does not always become clear against what background we are doing about China's rise, Russia's aggression and America's selfishness, and that a divided Europe would be powerless to do so. It is therefore a question of what Europe we want: one in which an open society rather than a closed society is the norm, and one in which freedom applies in connection, rather than each for its own. These challenges and values call for a strong Netherlands in a strong Europe. The euro has an important place in it. It is therefore not an academic discussion but a bitter necessity to build up these robust economic and monetary institutions. This means tackling the shortcomings that emerged during the crisis and strengthening the foundation under the euro. We need to do that before the new crisis comes. In this approach, perhaps a little under-exposed is the fact that the Minister of Finance - and I quote him - is'real for Europe, real for the EU and real for the euro'. A large majority of Dutch people, 68%, think the euro is a good thing for the Netherlands. That is also not strange when, in addition to the ease of payment across the border, you look at the economic benefits that the euro has for the Netherlands as an open economy. The Council of State also writes that the euro as a currency has proved successful and credible. Meanwhile, under French-German leadership, a willingness to move forward with Europe flourishes. So it is certainly wise to conclude alliances, as the Minister does, to get support for the Dutch emphasis on "a deal is a deal," but as the Netherlands we must also relate to that political reality and not leave us out of the discussion. We also need to use the momentum of Macron and Merkel to realize our well-understood self-interest and to put that other Dutch value into practice: working together to get things done. I share all the frustrations about the French budget deficit and the Italian banking sector, but I also draw optimism from the rapid Spanish approach to irrecoverable loans, the major Greek reforms and the way Portugal and Ireland have quickly reduced their substantial deficits. Mr. Chairman. I have already called on the Minister to take a constructive stance to strengthen our economy. I am well aware that in Europe, but also in the Dutch debate on the euro, 'c'est le ton qui fait la musique', as our French friends say. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dus ja, zeker, belangrijke voorwaarden en belangrijke waarborgen zijn nodig — die staan in het regeerakkoord en die zijn tijdens de debatten al vaak de revue gepasseerd — maar wij zijn ook vóór de vorming van een kapitaalmarktunie om de diversiteit van financiering voor ondernemers te vergroten, vóór het voltooien van de bankenunie, inclusief een gezamenlijke publieke achtervang om de afhankelijkheid van banken te verminderen, vóór een Europees depositogarantiestelsel om de risico's in de financiële sector en de kwetsbaarheid van het systeem als geheel te verminderen, vóór een geloofwaardigere handhaving van begrotingsregels, zodat elk land buffers opbouwt als dat kan en daardoor de ruimte heeft voor extra bestedingen als het moet, vóór onafhankelijke ramingen en analyses, zoals het CPB die hier ook maakt, zodat de checks-and-balances beter geregeld zijn, vóór een Europese begroting met meer ruimte om structurele hervormingen te stimuleren, zodat de convergentie die we allemaal willen, een nieuwe impuls kan krijgen, en vóór een gezamenlijk vangnet als landen in problemen komen met een mechanisme voor de herstructurering van onhoudbare overheidsschulden, zodat de eurozone als geheel stabieler wordt.]] D66 therefore wants the Minister to work for a strong Netherlands in a strong Europe in the coming months to ensure that we are not only stronger out of the crisis, but that European economies are also much stronger together in a subsequent crisis. It is not a question of whether it will come; the question is when it will come. Then it is important that the euro remains the foundation of peace and stability for future generations as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u43	I think I heard a saying: 'a bigger European budget so that structural reforms can be implemented', but how does D66 come to the wisdom of getting structural reforms if we give more money to Brussels? And why should structural reforms cost us money?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u44	One: I did not say 'a bigger European budget', although I would certainly not oppose it. Two: I did not say 'give away to Brussels'. Three: I said that there should be more room within the European budget to pursue these structural reforms. I have already mentioned the acronym SRSP, the Structural Reform Support Programme, which is now also within the European budget, but is actually relatively small, and I think that we will all be better off ultimately if you use European funds more from the Multiannual Financial Framework to strengthen those structural reforms.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u45	I just don't understand why keeping agreements that were made a long time ago should cost money. Does Mr Snel agree with me that "a deal is a deal," so we just have to do what we agreed on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u46	I certainly agree with Mr Bruins that we should stick to these agreements and that the institutions as they are today are not enough for that. However, unlike Mr Bruins, I think we should help each other a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u47	My question to Mr Sneller is: did the German coalition agreement cheer you up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u48	I have to say, I was having trouble finding that this morning. I've read the articles about it and listened to some interviews about it. The schwung to say it to his German, who is in it for Europe, cheered me up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u49	I ask this because it is also a political question. Let me begin by saying that I am pleased with Mr Sneller's story. That's a pro-European story. At the same time, I have to say that D66 is in a coalition that wants to stand a little on the brakes. If you compare the Dutch coalition agreement with the German coalition agreement, there are great differences. Then may I put one proposal to you? Both Germany and France also want to take steps with regard to the tax union: minimum rates of profit tax, tax avoidance approach, Google tax, Amazon tax. Doing business?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u50	I think it will strengthen the foundations of the euro relatively little. But Mr Snels has had important discussions on minimum rates with my colleague, Mr Van Weyenberg, and has always supported them. This does not apply to the Google tax, as proposed by the French and Germans. However, I believe that we agree on taxation on the digital economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u51	It's a little egg-running in the coalition. We should even be in favour of independent budget estimates. Even the PVV is for that, and we have to count that as a blessing. But if anything is said about the budget, the Christian Union is already coming out of the Chambers. If that minimum Vpb rate is embraced by D66 now that Germany is in favour of it, I would like to take that up. So if we table a motion with "Minister, take the lead in Europe to achieve a European minimum profit tax rate," then D66 votes in favour?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u52	I'll check with my colleague. However, I believe that the harmonisation of VAT rates has always been our position in the European debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u53	Until you joined this cabinet. We have always voted in favour of this in recent years. The PvdA and D66 did. The VVD was against it. A majority in the Chamber was against it, so we couldn't start that much. But you can realize it now. Germany, a powerful country, wants it. You just said we need to work together. I hope D66 is ready. I think the SP would like to come, too. Then perhaps we can get a majority in favour of the request to the cabinet to take the lead on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u54	Then I await the proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u55	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA, who was already ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u56	Mr. Chairman. Europe is important to provide protection and prosperity for the Dutch. There's a lot going on in the world. Multinationals barely pay taxes. As the Netherlands, we cannot solve this alone. The refugee and migration problems are enormous. As the Netherlands, we cannot solve them alone. And the financial world has a lot of influence. You can't do that as the Netherlands alone. The euro should help to increase this prosperity and ensure that it is protected. In recent years, we have seen that there is still much room for improvement in both areas. The financial crisis has resulted in people's savings, including those of Dutch people, not being safe. Governments had to save banks. It's never gonna happen again. That is why the Banking Union needs to be completed. Governments, including in the euro area, must have sound public finances. That was not the case in recent years, and it is not yet in order. It takes adjustments to make that happen. We are now at a crossroads in European history. Yesterday it became known that we were just talking about Germany having a pro-European cabinet. Merkel stays there chancellor. Macron is also drawn out European. Those two sit together at the table to determine the future of Europe. The Netherlands is there and leaves a large farmer. And then when they return to the Netherlands they say: I'm Dutch, so I can be blunt. This is only for domestic use; it does not contribute to a safe, prosperous Europe. What should the Netherlands do with regard to the PvdA? Those tough lyrics aren't gonna do us any good for domestic use. We saw it with Greece. Prime Minister Rutte also said tough: we're not gonna do it. And be tough! And eventually he came back to it. That also feeds cynicism. That attitude undermines the confidence of the Netherlands in Europe. What should the Netherlands do? As far as the financial sector is concerned, I say the following. The banks are still not healthy. Europe allows a bank to lend 33 more euros each. A sigh of headwind, and it's gonna go wrong again. We have seen what this could lead to: huge unemployment in countries and public finances that were derailed. It shouldn't be like this anymore. The Netherlands has more stringent rules. I would like to see 10%, so every euro can be lent up to ten times. That's a lot, but that's quite a reform. In Europe it is only 3%. Is the Minister prepared to agree in Europe that this is going up? The entanglement between governments and banks is still far too great. The balance sheets in Italy, Spain and any other country are full of bonds from those countries. That's not good. That must also be reformed. We have been Chamberwide for many years now, so there has been no discussion in this Parliament of a motion from my hand, which has to remove the zero weighting on government bonds. It's a bit technical, but basically, it's very attractive for banks to have government bonds on the balance sheet. Is he going off the table, too? Thirdly, the banking union must be further completed. It's not ready. We're halfway there. That must be done, because otherwise the Dijsselbloem doctrine will not be finished. This means that investors will take the hits from now on and not the governments. The second issue is sound public finances. The cabinet actually opts for ever stricter rules and even more supervision. That's a bit of what the Christian Union said. It wants to pour the rules even further into concrete, when you would say that the rules are now so stacked together and become so unclear that they are not enforceable. They're not credible anymore either. Eventually, they do not lead to a sensible economic policy as a country. I would actually like to ask whether it is not much wiser to place more emphasis on the blame. You can never say it absolutely, but we already have a level of debt of 60% that has been accepted at European level. That is what is being held in all these discussions. If you're now well below that 60%, the Netherlands is below that 60%. Shouldn't you have a lot more room to take blows? Certainly an open economy like the Dutch is fluctuating enormously, we have seen this in recent years. The sensible economic policy of recent times has led to a return to sound public finances. But why would you have to stick to such standards very strictly? Is it really crazy that Latvia and Lithuania also have 30% and 40% debt that you can cope with shocks, rather than cutting back in bad times? There is great criticism from the IMF and the CPB that we cannot actually conduct Keynesian politics anymore. If you look at that guilt, wouldn't it be much wiser? That's part of it...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u57	Mr Nijboer makes interesting suggestions on...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u58	I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u59	Sorry, I'm gonna turn up the mic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer makes interesting suggestions...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u61	And I turned off the mic on you. Do you hear that, Mr. Azarkan? All right, Mr. Faster, proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u62	I'll start again from the top.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u63	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u64	For the third time. Mr Nijboer made interesting suggestions for simplifying the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact by focusing on debt. I understand how that would work for northern Member States that are relatively low in debt, but what would it mean in practice for the southern Member States that are over-indebted? He objects to strict enforcement. What would that look like in his vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u65	What you want is for all countries to have sound public finances. That is not the case now, and it will not be settled next year. There is no parliamentarians, only the PVV, sometimes shouts something seriously saying that you can get sound public finances from one day to the next. Of course, Italy has to put things in order. We do not disagree on that at all. But you can see if the rules we have now are optimal for all countries, especially if you have setbacks in the economy. I don't think so. In answer to the question: of course, in Italy we must also go to hell and move towards that 60%.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u66	That would mean an even stricter measure for the expenditure rule and the budget deficit, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u67	That could be possible, especially in a high-end economy. I'm not ruling that out at all. I want more sensible appointments. Of course, you need agreements, there is no other way in monetary union. But now they are all piled together with fines that are then not enforced. The Christian Union says we really need sanctions. I will now turn to my second part, which would also be a good proposal. I keep coming forward. If countries fail to comply, they might need to borrow their money on the market at interest rates. A kind of junior unions is called it in technology, so you can see that it costs something if you pursue irresponsible fiscal policies. That is the kind of proposal I would like to suggest to the Minister. How does he look at that? I think they are proposals that will be of interest in France and Germany. Then you can also take a central position both to get public finances healthy and to promote prosperity, not to restore unnecessary unemployment and the financial sector, because it is really not in order yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u68	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u69	Mr. Chairman. This is the long-awaited debate that has actually been going on since 2008: the debate on the euro. The Commission now considers it time to take steps. It wants to deepen EMU. The CDA sees a lot of bumps before we can even begin further risk-sharing within this monetary union. A few examples. The banking system in countries such as Italy, Greece and Cyprus, but also Germany with Deutsche Bank, is not stable. Bad loans run in the hundreds of billions. National central banks guarantee hundreds of billions through the TARGET2 system. Governments sometimes still have high deficits in budgets and economies have not been reformed. That needs to be done now. Because if we had kept all our commitments, we would hardly have had a deficit above 3%. Then countries would not have had excessive public debt, we would not have needed ESM and no aid packages would have been needed. And perhaps Draghi had never started his huge monetary experiment: the buy-out of EUR 2,200 billion of mainly state loans. Formally, he did so in order to drive inflation forward, but a very welcome side effect was that countries with large debts could easily and cheaply finance it. Here we are as a eurozone. But there's also good news now. It's going well economically. This is the ideal time to bring back risks. Deficiencies down, normal monetary policy and the reduction of all risks: that is precisely what we should use now. If we want to restore credibility to the no-bail-out clause, as we say in the coalition agreement, then of course we should not create a huge new emergency fund that you can easily access. Any form of Eurobonds must also be rejected. And a backstop and other forms of risk sharing are rejected as long as risks are not reduced. Because if they are not reduced, these risks will simply be passed on to the strong euro area countries. The intention is to share risks only if they are significantly reduced in total. Risk sharing becomes a different risk shift and then you go into the trap of the transfer union. Once we're in there, we won't get out. We were glad that last week the government said that every year we get an update on the risks we run. But the CDA would like a zero reading now. What are the risks to the banking system, to monetary policy, to large sovereign debt and elsewhere? How can they be reduced? It has to be proven and proven reduced, because promises to do it just don't count anymore. The coalition agreement speaks of stress tests to be carried out by each of the countries before the proposals for mutualisation are made. How are they operationalized? I would like to join my colleague from D66. The risk weighting of sovereign debt must be achieved. How big is the minimum risk weighting? Sorry, it was the PvdA's colleague. The Dutch Government rejects the establishment of a Community European Monetary Fund, like most other parts of the Commission. Of course, the CDA Group supports that. We're counting on the government to stay firm. The Netherlands has a right of veto over the EMF proposal. I do have a supplement. Together with Mrs Leijten and Mr Van Rooijen, I have written a paper on transparency. This has been supported by the entire House of Representatives and is also really about the Ecofin, the euro and the Council of Ministers. Hundreds of billions are being spent on the ESM, but we cannot see the audit report publicly. There's a real hit there. Is that what the government wants to do? We would also like to know what the role of the IMF and the ECB will be. Will they continue to be involved in any aid programmes? We are talking about a European Monetary Fund, but something is only monetary if it can create money. Does this mean that it can either borrow from the ECB or itself, like the IMF, that SDRs can make money? I haven't seen the proposal, but I wouldn't like it. At least the name causes quite a bit of confusion. The coalition agreement is clear: risks are controlled and reduced for the Netherlands. This concerns the risks of the Central Bank, the risks of the bad loans and the risks of the other governments. Then who's the president of the jury for that? That is the President of the European Central Bank. It has to tell us if there are too many systemic risks. Surely the Netherlands is going to vote against the proposal that the chairman of the systemic risk, the chairman of the Systemic Risk Board, should be? 'Cause he's really not gonna tell himself it's not him. Mr. Chairman. Of course, as a CDA, we are making progress. We have learned from the introduction of the euro, but also from the admission of Greece to the euro, for example. We voted against it at the time. Even then, it was clear that it was a bad idea. We didn't know how bad it was, but we knew it was bad. So no further steps until we are sure that we do not run that kind of risk. The biggest risk is that we set up emergency funds everywhere, fully encourage monetary policy, all give guarantees and then come into a financial crisis where all these risks arise and all these guarantees are invoked when the Netherlands is in recession. We can't wear that, and that's gonna hit our social security system hard. That is the essence why the CDA rejects this type of risk sharing without risk reduction. Mr. Chairman. This government, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, will be judged in 20 to 30 years' time on how it has dealt with this problem. We can now see that it will demand a lot of helmsmanship to do well, but we know that it is important. We also wish the government a great deal of strength in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u70	We all wish the Minister strength here, I think, no matter what future we see for the euro and the euro area, and no matter how we think about the power of the financial markets over currency countries. That problem is not actually being tackled, no matter what alternative we put down. The CDA talks about the red lines in the coalition agreement. That is actually a bit back to Maastricht. We don't save countries. We don't save banks. We're not saving each other's banks. Nor do we allow the Dutch banks to save the Greek banks or the Italian banks, and we are complying with budgetary rules. Where is the flexibility in these red lines for the CDA Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u71	I think that Mr Leijten gives an extremely good summary of the coalition agreement. There are no debt communities and no eurobonds. The risks incurred by the Netherlands must be controlled and reduced in their entirety. The budgetary rules must be respected and there is no room for a stability mechanism, that is, such a large fund that regulates one-sided solidarity. These seem to me to be very good starting points. I'd like to hold on to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u72	I'm looking for the rack in these red lines. Of course, I understand that the CDA is once again bringing the red lines of the coalition agreement to the attention of our Minister for Finance. I think he knows them, too. We also see that Macron wants to move in a different direction and that there is a new coalition in Germany, which leaves much more room. We know that the European Commission sees every solution at European level. Those red lines may be less hard bounds than how they were written down. What I was looking for in my first question was, how hard is that red line? What can be moved for the CDA Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u73	The coalition agreement is the starting point. What would be the best thing for the French and the Germans would be if the coalition of government were to say: the Dutch Finance Minister could move on to that. Then they would really be double in Paris and Berlin. By the way, there was a German parliamentarians sitting here in the public gallery. It was gonna be texted straight back. Is he still there? Hello, Mr. Fricke. Unfortunately, he's in opposition. But imagine if we were to say here: well, that 3%, we can make 4% of that. That's something we don't do anyway, I know, so I'm just gonna say this and he won't even have to negotiate anymore. That is a negotiating strategy that they would not apply in another country. And by the way, Mr President, on the second point, of the coalition agreement in Germany, everyone says that it is so flexible, but I can see that it says: 'The law of the national Parliaments bleiben davon unberührt'. In other words, the right of veto of the Netherlands on the ESM remains intact, even after the reform. And they're talking about "Das Prinzip der wechselseitigen Solidarität muss auch für den EU-Haushalt gelten." In other words, mutual solidarity. For me, the word'mutual' does not have to be used for the word'solidarity', because that is always mutual, but the Germans are very keen on it. So anyone who thinks that everything was given away there is also quite wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u74	Mr. Chairman. This was an answer, which Mr Omtzigt walked around a little bit the first time, which I do understand. Of course you're not going to say here: well, we can bargain a little here and a little bit there. But the point is that there will soon be an agreement in which it may well be that we have left a spring somewhere and won something somewhere. Is the CDA Group prepared, if it wishes to do so, to have the Dutch people hold a referendum on the new treaty on the euro if it wishes to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u75	As far as I can see, the European Commission is not proposing any treaty change at the moment. That is why you have also seen our Parliamentary question on the use of Article 352 of the Treaty. That is what the treaty says: if it is not in the treaty, we can do it by unanimity. But that also gives the Dutch government a lot of power in the ESM proposal. Because, because it must be done unanimously, there is an effective right of veto on every part of the proposals on the reform of the ESM. And that is where the Netherlands can do much more than on other matters. And by the way, no, if you ask the CDA if the CDA is going to organise referendums, that's like asking the SP if they're going to lower taxes, says Mr Van Dijck, but I think that's a lame thing, because they do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u76	Yes, now Mrs Leijten has the right to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u77	You know our position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u78	You must not listen to Mr Tony van Dijck, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u79	We are not going to organise a referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u80	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u81	Of course, it would have made more sense to draw the parallel: asking the SP to privatise home care, for example, because we would never do that. Look, we'd like to lower taxes. The lowest incomes, the middle incomes may have a little more room and the millionaires may contribute a little more. That's how you know the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u82	You've made your point. Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u83	However, it is just the political question again, because that is what we are talking about in the end. What, according to Mr Omtzigt, is the biggest difference between the Dutch coalition agreement and the German coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u84	There's some in there. For example, the Dutch coalition agreement indicated at the ESM that it opted for the intergovernmental variant and chose the German coalition agreement for the Community variant. We explicitly say that risks are reduced, as the German coalition agreement says a little less clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u85	You're not gonna tear up all the chapters in the coalition agreements, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u86	No, I read the German coalition agreement yesterday, 175 pages long.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u87	Where do you want to go, Mr. Snels?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u88	In my view, the biggest difference is that the German government agreement on responsibility starts with a European responsibility: we have that single currency together and we are jointly responsible for that thing going to work. The story of the Dutch coalition agreement and of Mr Omtzigt is: I do not want this, I do not want it, here I stand on the brakes, and there must be a veto. The Netherlands will be on its own. Doesn't Mr Omtzig fear that political playing field?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u89	In a number of cases, the Netherlands has a veto. On a number of other matters, I have seen a Prime Minister who travels all over Europe, is in Vienna on New Year's Day and is working with the Visegrad countries on another day, and then with the Benelux countries, to build alliances on this. And I think that's very sensible. I always reason from the content and from the content I think it really is extremely sensible to say that was also the end of my speech to try to reduce the risks. This is in the interests of the Dutch citizen, but also in the interests of the German and Greek citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u90	Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u91	That is precisely why we need to bet hard on that. I do not see why sharing risks and doing unbridled would solve a number of European problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u92	Mr Omtzig quotes page 9 of the German coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u93	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u94	He mentions a sentence I'm not reading. The sentence for it is important. I'm asking him to respond to that. "Den Europaïschen Stabilitätsmechanismus (ESM) woollen wir zu einem Parliamentarian kontrollierten Europaïschen Währungsfunds weiter entwicklen, der in Unionrecht veren anchort sein sollte."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u95	Mr Van Rooijen, would you translate that for the people who do not speak German and also want to know what this debate is about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u96	I used to have German lessons.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u97	Yeah, but not everyone does.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u98	It's a good thing you said that, Mr. Chairman. That coalition agreement states that the ESM is to be further developed, parliamentaryly controlled, into an EMF which must be enshrined in Community law, Union law. Mr Omtzigt's quote follows: the rights of national parliaments remain unaffected. In other words, that is a veto. However, I think Mr Omtzigt is right to read from the previous sentence that it says that the Community will become a Community, not an intergovernmental one. We therefore note together that the German government agreement says that we want a Community EMF, not an intergovernmental one. This almost puts the Netherlands in the position that it can only do so through a veto if it does not want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u99	You have asked a question and answered your question, I am afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u100	My question is whether Mr Omtzigt shares my concern that the German coalition agreement is going completely in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u101	In reply to Mr Snels' question, I have just said this. Sorry, it was Mr. Snel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u102	Quickly, with an s.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u103	Yes, it is also very difficult: Fast, Fast and Faster. In any case, it was exactly one of the two big differences I just mentioned. I am well aware of that. As the Minister in the AO Ecofin said, about one third of the countries have objections to the establishment of Union law, i.e. Community rules. I'll try to explain it in front of the gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u104	Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u105	At present, the ESM is a fund of Member States, in which not all Member States participate. The Czech Republic, Croatia and Great Britain are not participating. The problem of Britain is solving itself. The Commission would like that fund to become an institution of the Union with hundreds of billions of dollars, giving the European Commission a bigger say. The Dutch Government rejects that. The Germans say it must be in the Union, but at the same time all veto rights must remain intact. That almost sounds like a polder compromise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u106	My question was whether Mr Omtzigt shares with me the concern that the Netherlands will almost be in an isolated position, although we hope that perhaps one third of the countries will be included in a kind of Dutch anti-elf team against Germany and France at European football level.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u107	Comparisons with footballs between the Netherlands and Germany were better than they are now 20 years ago, so I'm gonna leave that out for a while. If a third of those Member States, some seven or eight, can reject this while one can veto it, the Netherlands is not even in such an uncomfortable position in these negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u108	A different subject, tax avoidance and competition. Is the CDA talking about a minimum VAT rate, so that Member States no longer compete with each other on tax rates and companies do not actually pay any more, while people pay the full pound? The CDA always talks about relief for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u109	The CDA attaches importance to a certain level of tax autonomy. Before you know it, you'll have some sort of full European taxes. It seems that harmonisation does not take that step, but, of course, you make it implicitly. If you do the same and the basis and you harmonise the rates, then the step towards European taxation is not so far away. We don't see much in that. If cooperation is needed and there is a need to intensify in the area of tax avoidance, the German government agreement even mentions a number of companies by name, then I can imagine that joint initiatives will be taken on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u110	I know the CDA from the past as a best pro-European party. If you see big companies playing countries against each other with tax rates, with Vpb rates, you can't close your eyes to that, can you? Certainly not if it turns out that people, Mrs Leijten, already referred to them in countries where they were paying for them. They do not notice economic growth as these large companies contribute less. You can say in principle that no one can touch our VPb tariff, but you can see that this is played out against each other by competition. Does it then fit in with the Christian Democrat idea not to let that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u111	Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u112	And to make companies pay their share fairly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u113	This debate is about the euro, but I will be happy to answer it. Some of these companies did not compete so much on tariffs as used the base erosion in full. They have done their best to sit in Luxembourg and pay effective tax rates of 3% and sometimes less. You can harmonise statutory rates, but I do not feel that we are going to take a first step towards a kind of European corporate tax. But making it impossible for you to have a body in one country that is transparent and taxing another so that you can avoid tax twice and not pay taxes, I am in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u115	This coalition agreement is also much more ambitious than the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u116	Thank you. We've had a debate on tax avoidance here before, haven't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u117	I have already found it difficult to limit the introduction of the euro to six minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u118	Thank you. Now you're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u119	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u120	I now give the floor to Mrs Hennis on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u121	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking about a future-proof EMU, a stable euro. Few people gather on the Malieveld for this, because great enthusiasm does not evoke this. It sounds far away and feels far away, but it is not; on the contrary, I would like to say. What is this debate about? This debate is about our money, about our jobs and our business, about our trade and our exports, about our pay slips and savings accounts and our pension. That is what this debate is about in the end. So it is important that the currency with which we pay, save and do business is good for it and remains good for it. The basis for this is the rules of the game that we meet in Brussels. A stronger EU is in the interest of the Netherlands. Removing the remaining shortcomings therefore matters, and more than that. Mind you, I've never made a secret of that, the establishment of such a stronger and future-proof EU is very closely listening. That is the immediate problem of today. The Member States are quite different about the precise implementation of this, and I would like to put it nicely. Mr. Chairman. The VVD insists that the consequences of bad policies in an individual country cannot simply be passed on to other countries. In order to achieve this, I think we can actually distinguish a number of basic rules. First of all, the Member States in particular have a move to make. They are and will continue to be responsible for their own budget and economy and therefore for putting their own house in order. And then, it has already been mentioned: agreements and rules are being respected and they are being enforced. Agreements and rules are also not relaxed because some countries are better placed to do so. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister how he assesses the fact that the medium-term objective is no longer included in the Commission's proposal on budgetary responsibility. There is a qualitative requirement, but no quantification. I like to hear it. Mr. Chairman. More generally, I say what others have said, but I attach great importance to the fact that compliance with and enforcement of agreements and rules is not only necessary but also crucial. Individual Member States make agreements in their own interests. Then follow them. This is indispensable for support and trust in and between Member States. The big question is how to strengthen the incentives for compliance and enforcement. I would like to ask the Minister to discuss this in detail, including the possible depoliticisation of compliance and enforcement. 'Cause I'm sure of one thing. If we are not able to work on this, the mistrust will continue and sooner or later this will lead to a bomb, if not a bomb, under EMU construction, with all the consequences. It makes or breaks the currency union. I really believe that solidarity, which we are all talking about, is a completely hollow concept if a number of Member States simply fail to do anything about it. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to rule number three. No further steps are being taken towards a debt community or towards permanent and/or large-scale transfers. And proposals that directly or indirectly restore the spirit of the no bailout clause are supported, whether they are countries or financial institutions. Rule number five. A possible common public back-up, the so-called back-stop, is budget-neutral. By the way, I assume that if such a common backstop does see the light of day sooner than expected and therefore enters into force before 2023, the national credit lines will be immediately discontinued at that time. Can the Minister confirm this? On the basis of previous basic rules, I note that the words 'bankruptcy' and 'exit' appear to have disappeared from the vocabulary of the European Commission and also the Council. My question is why? The failure of a financial institution or a country's euro exit is, of course, never an end in itself. In fact, it could even destabilise the euro area in a far-reaching way: the risk of the well-known domino effect. But to rule out bankruptcy or exit in advance doesn't seem healthy to me. This is, after all, a correction mechanism as part of a well-functioning economy. Can the Minister elaborate on this? Then rule number six. A permanent mechanism for debt restructuring of public authorities should be developed if they wish to rely on European aid, i.e. the SDRM. How's this going? We hear a lot from the European Commission, but nothing about it. So I like to hear it. Evidence of risk reduction in the Banking Union should take place before considering proposals that lead or may lead to increased risk sharing. Mr Omtzigt spoke about this explicitly. Orderliness and conditionality are also important key words here. Then my last basic rule for today. There is no change in the ESM voting ratio which would veto participating countries where they now have them. This also applies, of course, to a possible EMF. As far as I am concerned, the basic rules I have just set out apply to all stages of and in those Brussels negotiating processes. Together, as far as I am concerned, they represent a very good balance for this cabinet. I'd be happy to pass this along to this Minister of Finance. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u122	However, I would like to say a few words about the preoccupation with debt and fine, the preoccupation with the budgetary rules. Does Mrs Hennis know what Spain's budget balance and public debt was around 2007?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u123	Enlighten me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u124	2.2% in surplus and around 35% in public debt. What I find so strange is the pre-occupation of these budgetary rules. In the end, they were not the cause of the financial crisis. They were not the cause of the economic crisis. In fact, Jeroen Dijsselbloem said that the last time we had actually maintained the budgetary rules as they were written, the economic crisis would have been much deeper. What's your verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u125	The strengthening of the problems in the euro area during the financial crisis is indeed due to a number of shortcomings in the original design of the currency union. I am not saying that non-compliance with budgetary rules has led to a global financial crisis. You don't hear me say that. Last Monday, I also told you that as a liberal, I do not suffer very much from pre-emption when it comes to debt and penance. But I do believe that if you don't do what has been agreed in good times, such as building buffers and preparing for bad times that will always come, you will pay a huge bill when things go bad. You pay that bill yourself, and you don't blame it on the others, but that's what happened in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u126	What I find so strange in this debate... I notice that with Mrs Hennis, but also with the CDA and the Christian Union.... is that they are incredibly afraid to share risks with each other. I can see those risks and the legacy problems, but the crucial problem, the crucial cause of the euro crisis, was the close connection between banks and states. You can only solve that if you share risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u127	I repeat what I just said. In particular, compliance with certain agreements in good times also makes it clear how much room there is for complying with the same agreements in bad times. We're talking about risk sharing. Suppose I open an en-or account with you. I trust that we will contribute to this, that you will be careful with your income and that you will take into account the fact that we have to live together on that joint account. But you're clearing your account. In fact, you're building a debt on... Sharing risks can be done if you are sure and trust that everyone keeps to the agreements you have made with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u128	Last comment in response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u129	I am not necessarily concerned about the fact that these agreements are not important, but I am glad that we are now entering a period where we can start evaluating the budgetary rules and see how they have worked. But it didn't start with Spain for nothing. Spain is now exactly the example of a country which complied well with all the budgetary rules. But still it got into trouble and had to put it into a program. So that's not the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u130	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u131	Just for the imagery, we don't discuss the problem here. I would like to give you some basic rules that are important for the VVD. We want to work seriously on a future-proof EMU in the interests of the Netherlands. I expressly did not say that the reason behind the emergence of the global financial crisis would be the failure to comply with the budgetary rules. There is a very big story behind this, about which we have heard a number of colleagues, including the far-reaching integration of the financial markets, on which we have lost sight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u132	Last interruption. Actually, it was Mrs Leijten's turn, but you put it first. What a collaboration. Last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u133	I'm getting the last interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u134	Yeah. You used everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u135	Used it all again? I've saved this last interruption especially for the VVD...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u136	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u137	... because we know the VVD from "not a penny to Greece." In 2010, Mr. Weekers called that hardest and then Rutte again a few times in the campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u138	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u139	We are now on the verge of stopping the ECB from buying up government bonds. We see that the debt in Italy is 2,300 billion, we see that Italy is short, so if we stand here next year, we can wait for a few hundred billion to go to Italy. Does the VVD already say, "Not a penny to Italy, own fault, big bump, shouldn't you have let your debt go up like that"? Or...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u140	Your question is clear. Mrs. Hennis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u141	Well, Mr President, I do not need to repeat the traumatic experience of the third aid package for Greece following Mr Van Dijck's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u142	That debate has been held in detail here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u143	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I remember that. However, I would like to add that I am not entirely clear about budgetary rules for nothing. Because if you don't comply with it and you don't prepare for bad times, which are going to happen anyway. That's how it works all over the world. I don't want the Dutch taxpayer to take the fall for bad policies in another country. I just made that really clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u144	So not a penny to Italy. Because Italy has a debt of over 130%, where it may be 60%, Italy has a deficit of over 2%, so... Someone with a bit of insight therefore I ask what is going to happen, who also sees that if the buy-in program stops, the interest rate in Italy will explode. They're paying 2% now, but that might go to double digits. Italy cannot pay that, the debt is unsustainable, and Italy comes very quickly to the EMF you are now planning to sign for, the same EMF where 500 billion is ready to save Italy. Can I assume you won't sign the EMF?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u145	Let me say this: Mr Draghi has suggested something and some speculation is being made, but we do not know whether it will really stop in September. So I can't anticipate that. I do think that the President of DNB has rightly and with good reason stated that it is time we cut the programmes down. Are we going to agree to the EMF? I think that this Minister has given us a wonderful table last week which shows the differences between the Commission's proposal and the way in which the cabinet looks at it. I have already expressed my opinion in several Ecofin countries. So I'm not getting hot or cold from the transformation from ESM to EMF, but it does depend on how we're going to set that up, under what conditions and with what risks. So I can't say at all whether I can agree to that. First of all, it will have to be really clear what the EMF, or what it will be called later, will look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u146	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u147	No. Do you promise it will be a very short interruption? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u148	Well, I do not hear this minister say, for example, that from the EMF should be removed that they can buy bonds on the primary market. In other words, that's just what it says. The Minister may get his will, intergovernmental and veto, but the fact remains that there will be 500 billion ready to save Italy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u149	I heard Mr Van Dijck say: we need to get out of the euro and we need to get out of the European Union. I know this PVV-speak and I accept it. But Mr Van Dijck forgets to mention what that means for the prosperity and stability of the Netherlands and what price we are going to pay for it. What matters to me is what we agreed last week during an AA, namely that we are at the beginning of a process. We still have to see how the force field develops and what the developments are. We shouldn't start yelling now based on hearsay. I don't know what the proposal's gonna look like yet. So we have to say no. It's way too soon for that. I have already said to this Minister: close bonds, build coalitions and make sure that the best possible proposal is on the table, and we can say yes to it with confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u150	You, too, are the last of the interruptions. But you knew that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u151	It is very nice when the chairman is strict and we will listen to that. At least I am. Mrs Plasschaert is talking about taxpayers all the time, but is one of the problems not that saving the euro, both in Greece and, for example, in the buy-back programme, has made a lot of private debt public? Now, for example, Draghi buys all kinds of debts from banks, which gives these banks higher buffers and allows them to recover. We don't notice any of that in the real economy, but it's on the account of all of us. In Greece, that was the case. The private market was able to withdraw from Greece. The banks had to be saved, and we paid for it. But that's what the Greek people are paying for. Isn't that one of the big problems that we should include as a rule in the whole line that the VVD is giving us, namely that the power of the financial market is being restricted?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u152	In my view, there is a reason why, in the basic rules I have just set out, I have also referred to the importance of a credible restoration of "no bail-out" and the introduction of SDRM. Mrs Leijten is right to talk about the undesirableness of mixing public and private resources. At the time with Greece, there was a great deal of action, because there was also financial contagion, outflow of capital and rapid reactions to financial markets, which we all suffered from. It would have brought with it an unprecedented domino effect if we had looked away. It was also in the interest, unfortunately, of banks in other Member States that had granted generous credit and did not take sufficient account of the risks. So, sure, I think the bondholders and shareholders should be the first to bear that pain. I'm not arguing for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u153	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u154	One of the proposals also contains a backstop. In the financial world, terms are always used that you don't really know what they are. This is actually just a final vault with public money to keep a country from falling over and the euro from falling down. We are actually only doing this in order to save the euro in the future. It is strange that the VVD says here: we are sending the minister to get a good euro, but we are already taking into account a huge vault to save the euro in the future. Saved from what? Eventually save from financial markets gambling with the real economy. Shouldn't that backstop just come out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u155	As far as I know, that common backstop is related to the Banking Fund and is budget neutral. That is a tough demand for me, but as far as I can remember it is also reflected in the Commission's proposals, whether in the medium term or not. It is a resolution mechanism, with, by the way, limited capacity, in which the banks themselves are going to pay for it. I am afraid that I cannot quite place the huge vault that Mrs Leijten is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u156	Through you, I have another question to ask Mrs Hennis-Plasschaert, President, about the monitoring and strict enforcement of the rules. The reality is that, in the period 1999-2013, almost all European countries did not comply, except Finland and, I believe, Luxembourg. It sounds nice. I just heard Mrs. Hennis-Plasschaert's six rules. What's in her rules about countries that don't?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u157	It's a little more rules, but that's okay. Indeed, these are a number of basic rules which, in one fell swoop, clarify how we could weigh and assess a number of proposals. I would particularly ask the Minister to reflect on how we can improve incentives for better compliance and enforcement. I myself tend increasingly towards depoliticising enforcement and compliance because I believe that this can contribute to confidence between and in Member States. It is not just about trust between the Member States, but also, above all, about the confidence of the Dutch and Europeans in the currency. I am therefore very keen to explore various possibilities for this. That is why I ask the Minister to reflect on this. I am therefore in favour of far-reaching depoliticisation of compliance and enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u158	If I am right, this means that you say that we should set up an institution that is not led by the European Commission but operates independently and has to be accountable somewhere. This institution must then determine to what extent a country has complied with the rules. Should this institute also determine what the sanction is, until it is removed from EMU?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u159	Within the current rules, too, there is room for the use of the so-called discretionary powers. We forget that sometimes, but that space is there. The question is, of course, how transparent you deal with this and whether we can also see why, possibly for very powerful reasons, these discretionary powers should sometimes be used. The rules do indeed have a disciplinary and steering effect. I don't have the silver bullet here all of a sudden. I once sat there and needed an answer to everything, but now I have the space to say I want to depoliticize it. Perhaps the European Fiscal Board can play a role in this. The question is whether you can put the Commission completely out of play as guardian of the treaties; I realise that too. But I am really looking for an instrument that can be a mix between central and decentralised, such as the Council of State that has written down very nicely. This will enable us to do the best we can to comply with and maintain it. Trust is really fragile. If we do not continue to work on this, I predict, as I have just said, that sooner or later there will be a bomb under EMU construction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u160	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u161	Mr. Chairman. Money is based on trust. A piece of paper, a piece of nickel, steel and copper, one and zero in digital traffic. Ultimately, money is about trust in a currency, institutions, in the government and in each other. As far as I am concerned, this debate concerns the confidence and restoration of confidence in the euro and the future of the euro. If you look at the figures of Europeans' confidence in the euro as our currency, you can see that, at the height of the financial crisis, it had fallen slightly, to about 60% of the population, but that this has now returned to more than 70%. That is a striking observation. Apparently, there is a fairly stable support from people in the euro area countries for our common currency, no matter how big and deep the crisis was. But look at the confidence that people have in Europe, in Brussels, but also in our national politicians, there is indeed a significant decline. That's not crazy. Banks have been saved, but a quarter of young Europeans under 25 are unemployed. In some countries that is even half. A lost generation. The euro has been saved, but the average European's income has stagnated or even fallen significantly. Large companies make profits and pay little tax, while the burden on European citizens has increased. If there is one task, it is that we need to restore people's confidence that the euro was a good idea after all. If there is one task, it is to deliver on the promise that EMU will lead to fair progress, to joint progress and to more jobs, income and security. I'd like a response. Mr. President, a confession. Twenty years ago, I was one of the 70 economists who had a manifesto of strong criticism of monetary union. The project was incomplete. The union of the market and currency was not combined with a social and fiscal union. The strict and dubious economic fiscal rules would lead to a austerity policy that would be at the expense of employment and public services. Our criticism, the criticism of those 70 economists, was harsh, and sometimes the predictions were too pessimistic, but the basis was right. But never washed a good crisis. It is a somewhat cynical starting point, but the crisis has led to a considerable build-up on the shaky foundations of monetary union: the banking union and the supervision of the sector, the ESM to help countries in need, and the capital market union to spread risks. The building's in the docks, but it's not finished. We are having technical discussions about completing the Banking Union, a European Deposit Guarantee Scheme, a European Monetary Fund and safe assets. But the underlying debate is about what we share in Europe, about principles. They're clear to us. The euro must be based on solidarity and financial risk sharing. Does the Minister agree with me? The euro must protect us from the unreasonable, unpredictable and undemocratic power of financial markets. Does the Minister agree? The budgetary rules should help to cope with economic shocks and provide scope for new investment and new jobs. Does the Minister agree? And as an indispensable pillar of the building, the euro must also be based on an ambitious fiscal agenda, on fair taxation. If large companies pay less and less taxes in Europe, while the burden on people is increasing, then that is not only economically undesirable, but also politically unsustainable, because that affects people's confidence. There must therefore be minimum rates of income tax, taxes on large Internet companies such as Google, Amazon and Facebook, and an ambitious approach to tax avoidance. Mr. Chairman. On these proposals a 'yes' comes from Germany and France, but from the Netherlands comes: 'hoho, slow down; we do not want that'. I think that is the central question now. Will the Netherlands participate in the design of a new Europe that restores people's trust? Or will the Netherlands remain on the brakes, afraid to share risks? I said on Monday at the Council of State: sometimes I, as a GroenLinkser, stand at the edges of the Dutch political playing field with a solid green and social programme. But the euro debate is the other way round. The Dutch middle parties, the cabinet, are threatening to be European out of play. I am closer to the center of the playing field with my views than the cabinet. I see Mrs. Hennis wants to interrupt. Two more sentences, Mrs. Hennis. Does the Minister see that the German coalition agreement has changed the European playing field? How does he judge that? Will he contribute constructively to a social monetary union with the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u162	Earlier in this debate, there was talk of a preoccupation with guilt and fine, but I also sense a preoccupation here with the European force field, as if the Netherlands were unable to reach its own judgment on a number of proposals. I believe that the Netherlands in Europe is very much talking about the proposals that are on the table and are still expected. My question is: what is being said here? Lie on your back with your legs up and accept everything on the table? Or: join in and influence it, so that the Dutch interest is also served?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u163	It is not for nothing that I started with the principles which I believe are important to us. One of the causes of the euro crisis is that we did not share risks in a good way, because there was a large correlation between banks and sovereign debt. That is one of the important reasons for sharing those risks. Now you can look at that in an insurance way. This means that you can share risks a little faster if you are creative in the proposals with your own risk, premium differentiation, maximation and government bonds on banks, allowing you to take steps forward. What I miss so much with the Dutch cabinet and also with the CDA and with the VVD, is that I always hear what they don't want but never what they do want. I think that is why the Netherlands is not participating in the European debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u164	For the VVD it is really clear: we want a stable currency in the interest of the Netherlands and in the interest of the euro area, because with that currency we pay, we save and do our business. So I am very clear about that. The question is, of course, how we organise this and what agreements we make with each other. I have just set out a number of rules, in which I have made clear what I do want, exactly what I do want. Sometimes you do that by formulating what you don't want. Again, is it now recognised that this cabinet is fully involved in the European discussions on the closure of bonds and the building of coalitions and that we will indeed have a future-proof EMU and that we will not be operating in a union or euro area where solidarity has become a completely hollow concept and where the consequences of bad policies in country X will have to be dealt with by the Dutch taxpayer? That can't be the intention, not even for GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u165	Ultimately, many technical proposals, whether they are about completing the Banking Union, the European Deposit Guarantee Scheme or the backstop, are all insurance systems that are going to ensure that we are no longer governed by financial markets that destroy banks and countries, but that we go about it ourselves. The view of Mrs Hennis and the cabinet may well be that we must first eliminate all risks from Italian banks or from public debts and only then proceed to an insurance system. I don't think that makes any sense. In fact, I'm also worried about the next eight years. The Netherlands is the country that will suffer most if the Brexit ends badly. We too would like to see an insurance system under the euro. We need to think about that. We need to think creatively about that. We must not just say what we do not want, but also think about how we can get closer to the French and the Germans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u166	I heard Mr Snels say that he blames the cabinet and perhaps some groups for not wanting things: others want things and then we should not say that we do not want them. Why can't we say what we don't want? I don't understand. We do not have to say, especially after the German agreement, that Germany and France are in charge and ask why we are going to be bothering? We will have to get in the way, because we do not have to assume that Germany and France, M&M, are going to do the job in Europe. Then where are all the other countries that also want and should remain in that family, but in a correct way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u167	I'm afraid we're getting more and more alone. The VVD hoped, of course, that there would be another coalition in Germany. It didn't come. The Foreign Minister and the Finance Minister will soon be Social Democrats. They stand for a different course than the liberals. That means we have to think along. I see the coalition in Europe that the Netherlands is hoping for getting smaller and smaller. I believe that we should participate in the debate on what is a good and social European monetary union, which creates jobs and jobs and which is not just aimed at the Dutch interest. That is a bit my objection to the Dutch debate and why I am getting so cheerful of the French and Germans, although I do not always agree with them. They begin to think about what is in the interest of the functioning of that monetary union for all Europeans and not just for the Dutch interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u168	It is, of course, terrifying that, in that context of Germany and France, France is the country that is actually going to show us the way. The Germans speak in the German coalition agreement about "a new Élysée treaty." Worse you can't read it as a Dutchman. So that duet's already here. We must continue to defend our own national interests. They are, of course, primarily within a European framework, but we should not become a sidecar. I feel like you're saying, "Just come with me," because you're almost alone. Omzigt rightly pointed out that we probably have enough countries to support the EMF, but it can also go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u169	I'm in favour of Mark Rutte sitting at the table with Merkel and Macron...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u170	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u171	............................................................................................................................. That's what I'm afraid of. And those proposals make me happy, because there are a number of proposals that go in a direction I share. I also didn't bring up for nothing about the tax union, about minimum rates of profit tax, about taxing Google, Amazon and...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u172	You already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u173	That's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u174	Your last interruption, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u175	Thank you. Very briefly. The French Minister recently said that France and Germany are concluding an agreement. Spain and Italy may then look at the details and the rest have checked. That can't be true, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u176	So isn't it the challenge for us to sit at the table and not stand in the corner like a little boy? I think that's the challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u177	If I understand Mr Snels correctly, the issue is this: either if a little boy stays in the corner, or sit at the table like a little boy, leave a peasant, drink milk neatly and then go back to The Hague, because Germany and France decide what happens. That's a bit of a defeatist attitude. However, I should like to echo Mrs Hennis' questions and Mr Snels' glowing speech. He said that, as it were, insurance for the euro should be taken out and that it should be provided for in the reflection paper. But that can only be done if we accept, as a matter of principle, that a financial transfer from North to South can take place. Look at the state debt, and look at the distribution. Then it's only possible if we're willing to accept that, isn't it? Then the Dutch taxpayer, among other things, will be charged with keeping the public finances in order or getting them in order in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u178	You're gonna need a long run today, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u179	That's true, but this is just my first interruption. I saved it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u180	Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u181	It's about a few things. I think we need to move quickly, because the euro cannot work properly without risk sharing and without that insurance. I fear the next shock. We don't know when it can come. It could be very soon. We also do not know what it means when Draghi reduces his extreme monetary policy. But how does insurance work? It depends on how the risks are spread, not only geographically but also over time. The Netherlands too may be at risk, and has done so in the past. The spread in the Netherlands also increased in 2012, when a budget agreement had to be concluded suddenly. We too have an interest in ensuring that there is insurance. It is often referred to that France and Germany had not previously complied with the budgetary rules. They weren't the best boy in the class either. So I am a little opposed to a simple North-South discussion. He's here now. We need to look at these legacy issues. We also need to think about how we can build incentives into this insurance system, so that the banks in Italy become healthy faster and public debt is reduced more quickly. But that doesn't mean we have to pay for that. We too have an interest in a well-run EMU.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u182	Mr Snels is now acting as if such a system of equalization or solidarity is the only solution. Is Mr Snels also prepared to think about restructuring the euro, precisely in order to eliminate all kinds of structural errors that have been incorporated into that system? I can imagine an easier route to an exit from some countries being offered. I'm just calling it a split.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u183	No. I'm against that. The crucial thing for me in this debate is that we get to control the financial markets again. What did we see? If banks get into a bit of trouble, there is a billion-dollar flight of capital on the financial markets. If countries get into a little trouble, there's a billion-dollar flight of capital, tens of billions. If we are now to build in uncertainty with temporary exits or flexible euros, then this is a celebration for the financial markets. That's speculation. A lot of people get rich from that, except for the ordinary citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u184	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u185	Thank you, Mr President. The SGP has a habit of looking at proposals with an open mind and a positive expectation. If you read the letters from the cabinet, you could say that the cabinet actually did the same thing on this file. In the appreciation of the reflection paper on the future of EMU, the first eleven pages of the fourteen are mainly positive. However, the cabinet rightly mentions a number of fundamental problems by name and by name. I shall mention the following matters. Insufficient sustainable income growth and convergence of European performance between Member States; doubtful. Twelve of the 19 Member States have sovereign debt above 60% of gross domestic product. The banking sector in a number of euro area countries faces a high number of problem loans. Those are the problems that are being identified. Despite these problems and despite some splashes, every effort is being made at European level to take the road towards further integration and transfers. So if we take this dossier and the proposals come to us from Europe, there is really no reason to be positive. There's just a lot of reason to be very alert. This is going the wrong way. I would like to take a look at the enlargement first. Technically, that's outside this file, but it has everything to do with it. Plans presented the day before yesterday to extend the EU to include countries such as Albania, Kosovo, Bosnia, Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia were welcomed, as if this were a fantastic development. In short, there were once again the praises that we are used to being poured out on us by the European Commission. The Treaty agreed that all EU countries should adopt the euro as soon as they meet the five convergence criteria. It's mandatory. However, it should not be forgotten that the euro area will in due course be enlarged to include the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary, Croatia, Bulgaria and Romania. Even if they are at different stages of development, I will mention them. Let alone add another six countries to that. Perhaps this is the fastest way to put an end to the euro area as we know it today. A cynic has already pointed out that I am very much in favour of enlargement with these countries, so all of us will join the euro zone, because we will be sure that it will lead to a total collapse of the euro in the shortest possible time. By the way, it wasn't a PVV guy who said that. But that cynicism is strange to us and we will not go beyond it. We will have our hands full holding together the current euro countries. The diversity is already too great to guarantee lasting stability. That is why I have two questions for the Minister. Is the Minister prepared to oppose further enlargement of the EU at EU level? Once again, I realise that this is formally outside this dossier, but it is so much intertwined with talking about the future of the euro that it cannot really be seen separately. My second question is whether the Minister agrees with the SGP that it is more sensible to separate EU membership and EMU. Then there's the transfer union. The reflection paper on the deepening of EMU contains many proposals directly or indirectly related to transfers. Firstly, there is the European Deposit Guarantee Scheme. Surely I can assume that no one believes that there is no transfer construction here? There are great differences in how healthy banks are within the euro area. Risks are not evenly distributed among euro area countries. There is a clear difference between structurally strong and persistently weak countries. Will the Minister oppose the European deposit guarantee scheme instead of keeping the door open? The second proposal is the creation of a European Monetary Fund. This includes, among other things, preventive credit lines. Then I wonder: why not a transfer union? This also includes the need to be able to intervene without the need for individual decisions by all countries. You can't do that, can you? It is not for nothing that we have a no-bail-out clause, one of the key concepts of the Maastricht Treaty. Is the Minister prepared to avoid implicit or explicit transfer structures? The same is true, in fact, of the stabilisation mechanisms for asymmetric shocks and the issuance of common debt securities, which, fortunately, the cabinet also opposes. What efforts will the Minister make to prevent them from coming after all? Finally, I would like to say something about wishful thinking. The SGP is truly surprised that, with the crisis still fresh in its memory, such far-reaching proposals are being made. I don't like football, but I can imagine a picture of panic football. This kind of thing happens. Or a flight forward, I don't know exactly what to call it. Once a crisis is over, it turns out to be a well-known phenomenon. All sorts of things are done. Did you know that in Europe alone 30% of people believe that house prices will never fall again? It's a creator's idea of which you're deeply impressed, I'll say. The argument of the SGP is: "Let the EU take its own rules seriously again." All parties, the Member States, the Commission and the European Central Bank, should be committed to strict enforcement of the conditions of the ESM. And the no-bailout clause needs to be restored, rather than "tolerantly evaded." Budgetary, financial and economic stability remains the task of all Member States. This calls for critical counter-pressure against the multitude of EU proposals aimed at further integration towards an EU Superstate. Does the Minister share this approach? How can we prevent the Netherlands and other small Member States from being sucked into the trap of further EU integration under pressure from the Franco-German axis? Mr President, I should like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u186	Thank you. I didn't know you didn't like football. That's good to hear, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u187	I think it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u188	Okay, that's not in the Acts. I call Mr Azarkan, on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u189	Mr President, thank you. I think Mr Bishop might have meant long hauls, early home. Some sort of opportunistic football. I didn't know he didn't like football either. Mr. Chairman. Today is the long-awaited debate on the deepening of European Economic Monetary Union. After the reflection paper and the Commission's plans on 6 December, we now have the views of the cabinet in a large number of letters. Last night, an agreement was reached between the CDU and SPD. The ambitions for the future of Economic Monetary Union go far beyond the plans of our cabinet. Against this background, the powerful French-German axis, led by Macron and to a lesser extent Merkel, comes up with new plans in March. Based on Macron's statements and the plans in the coalition agreement, this continues towards a European superstate. A major concern for the DENK Group is the gap between the citizen and politics. Are these new proposals going to restore or reduce confidence in that great Europe? The suspicion is that political legitimacy will be further undermined. And let us be honest: since the introduction of the euro in 2002, this single currency has contributed to price stability, prosperity and jobs. But weaknesses, looming errors and shortcomings have also come to light. There have been promises made at the start of the euro that have not been fulfilled. Countries have hardly grown towards each other and the financial risks are high, especially if we want to show unlimited solidarity with other countries. Moreover, all euro countries have been sucked into the Greek debt crisis, which would not have happened if Greece had not been admitted to the euro. An expensive lesson that new countries should not be admitted to the euro area, which do not meet the requirements. The institutional framework of EMU was not calculated on the basis of the crisis. Emergency mechanisms were needed, such as the European Financial Stability Facility and its successor the European Stability Mechanism. The ECB's unconventional monetary policy, and also something like the troika, were, according to some people, instruments to make the Greek people suffer for the mistakes and deceptions of the country's former leaders. The sun's shining. New figures on economic growth in the euro area countries were published yesterday. Growth is excellent both in Europe and in the Netherlands. By the way, Britain is at the bottom of growth. For those who think that the Brexit is the promised salvation: this does not seem to be supported by the growth figures. However, it is unfortunate that citizens have barely benefited from growth over the last 30 years and, on the other hand, businesses have seen their profits triple. As far as DENK is concerned, political legitimacy must be at the heart of new steps in Europe, i.e. no new powers to Brussels without a democratically legitimized counter-power. What does that look like? I have learned that it is better to stumble occasionally on the right path than to run on the wrong one. Let's keep it simple and clear. The budgetary rules are currently too complex. They are not respected and should be simplified as far as DENK is concerned. Enforcement, as has already been said, must be separated from political considerations and thus to a certain extent separate from the European Commission. As Minister Kok said last Monday, let us not repeat the mistakes of 2003 and 2004. DENK wants the banking union to be completed, but then everyone has to have their own house in order. Guarantees can only be given at European level if they are. The main pillar of the Banking Union, the supervision of large banks, also known as SSM, was already introduced in November 2014. This seems to be working reasonably, although it is regrettable that the General Court and the European Court of Auditors do not have proper access to the ECB and SPS documents. The European resolution mechanism for banks that go bankrupt or have to be dismantled is not a big discussion point either. This is true of the third pillar of the Banking Union, the European Deposit Guarantee Scheme. The usefulness and necessity of a European deposit guarantee scheme are not clear. There are already systems at national level. Is EDIS a kind of ideologically driven symbol project, or is that really something that helps citizens? Mr. Chairman. The above can only be done by increasing political legitimacy. This means more powers for the European Court of Auditors, better accountability to national parliaments and access to these institutions in the documents of, inter alia, the Eurogroup and the ECB. As far as DENK is concerned, there is certainly no European Minister of Finance, no guarantee fund for WW payments, no guarantee fund to maintain national budgetary expenditure if this is removed by the crisis. As far as we are concerned, there is no need for a large European fund to absorb asymmetric shocks. Mr. Chairman. I wish the Minister every success in Europe in the forthcoming discussions on the future of EMU. I'm afraid he'll need that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u190	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u191	Mr. Chairman. The institutional structure of Europe is in full swing. There's a lot at stake. Will 2018 be the year of truth for Europe? Big questions pass the review. Is the ESM going to be an EMF? Do we want a new public backup for the banking sector? Do we want to use EU spending to enforce policies in Member States? Is there going to be a European Minister for Finance? Do we want to spend debts together? Will creditors contribute if euro area Member States get into trouble? Will there be a stabilising fiscal capacity for the euro area? If we have the answer, there are 26 other governments and parliaments who need to find something. I am not yet talking about the independent ECB that we have no control over. What is more, the developments in Germany and France have unfortunately been more decisive for the future of the European debate than our efforts here. If, in our view, it is going in the wrong direction, if a large majority wants to see a European Minister for Finance, with debt-sharing and own tax revenues, it is the question what this cabinet wants and dares to do about it. For the record, 50PLUS is against a European Minister for Finance and Economy. It is worrying that we should say in this debate, even to the cabinet, that we still have a right of veto in the back pocket. It is, of course, very worrying when you come into the position of having to say to the other partners, because that is what they are: remember, if you push your way through, we will always have a right of veto in the back pocket. Of course, that's no basis for having a good conversation. Mr. Chairman. I will respond on a point-by-point basis to the main issues raised today in the eyes of 50PLUS. Some of them are parallel to the view of the cabinet and some of them are not. I cannot say clearly enough: we are opposed to further steps towards a transfer union and even more risk sharing. First share the house in order and only when the risks are reduced. Others have already said that. We are happy with the development of an exception for exceptional events in budgetary policy. At the same time, this also involves a risk, because the assessment of an exceptional event is by definition subjective. In 2008 we had an economic calamity, but only four years later the Netherlands came into conflict with the budgetary rules. Large countries, by the way, have often emerged from the dance. The Commission has lost a great deal of confidence in this regard. My group does not see how the proposed new rules, even though we consider them largely positive, contribute to the European Commission's enforcement deficit towards large Member States. The European Commission has completely failed in the past and has never wanted to impose sanctions. That began, of course, with France and Germany, who said at the beginning of this century: we are going to break the rules. That's good to remember. Does the Minister agree with us on the role of the Commission? I also refer to the article by Hans Hoogervorst and Frits Bolkestein in de Volkskrant this morning. I quote: 'Our main fear was that the rules of monetary union would not be properly applied for political reasons'. In their opinion, that fear has also been fulfilled. What is the Minister going to do to reverse this tide? We share the government's view that the European Commission is unfortunately leaving a significant part of the potential of the macroeconomic imbalances procedure, the so-called MEOP, behind by not activating the corrective arm. If enforcement in large Member States is the problem, why is tightening the rules a priority? Once again, we would rather hear what the Commission is going to do to restore lost confidence in enforcement. Do these proposals contribute to this and, if so, how, I ask the Minister. We stand with the cabinet for private participation if there is a souvereign debt restructuring, a bail-in. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, this cannot be arranged quickly enough, because if there is anything to reduce the risks to public finances, this is it. For us, the bail-in of sovereign debt together with the capacity of the ESM should be sufficient to cope with all conceivable crisis scenarios of sovereign euro Member States. The intended transition from the ESM to the EMF is not our preference. The paid-up and guaranteed capital of the ESM has been raised by the Member States. The Commission does not propose to become a major provider of capital itself, so there is no reason to change anything about the intergovernmental embedding of the ESM. We fully support the Minister in his basic belief that the transition from the ESM to an EMF should be maintained, as was the response yesterday, to the existing decision-making procedures and to the intergovernmental nature. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to talk about the emergency exit. The AIV recommends that the responsible monetary authorities develop exit scenarios to clarify the advantages and disadvantages of exiting the euro area. The cabinet does not see anything like that, under the motto "departure of euro area Member States is not on the agenda'. But we find that very easy to drive. In a good marriage, you don't talk about divorce every day, but if it comes to this, you know that it's legally and institutionally well arranged. No man or woman needs to be afraid that a divorce would not be possible because the lawyers still have to study for a legal ID of the divorce. Yet that's pretty much what we're doing in the euro area. The Brexit shows what kind of chaos that brings. Afraid of the fickleness of Member States or of the electorate, we do not bother to embed retirement in the structures. Mr President, we think this is a mistake. Self-confidence is a much better starting point than fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u192	Thank you very much, Mr Van Rooijen. That was the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-3.u193	I shall suspend the sitting until 1.10 p.m. Then we start with the arrangement of work and then we continue with the Minister's answer in the first term.
