ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 34723, Amendment of the Heat Act, i.e. amendments to the review of the Heat Act. I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u2	I give the floor to Mr Peter van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the proposal for a change to the Heat Act. And, Mr. President, according to the Minister, this bill improves the protection of tied customers of heat. The Minister thinks that's important. Maybe for the support of heat grids. We wonder whether this protection is not of its own interest, so that those who are unsolicited connected to a heat grid will keep their mouth shut. And does that mean that this protection will be released when the whole energy transition is pushed into it against the will of the citizen, the whole country is full of heat grids and support for this is a station passed? The maximum rate that may be charged for the supply of heat shall be based on a gas reference. This means that the costs a consumer incurs for the same amount of heat should not exceed when using gas as a source of heat. Of course, that sounds plausible, but that gas reference includes the energy tax levied on gas consumption and that energy tax is going to go up hugely. The government wants to reduce the consumption of fossil energy such as gas. And with an increasing energy tax, that's gonna work. Because of the rising heating costs, people are forced to turn off the stove. How reasonable does the Minister then consider it to base the maximum rate of heat on an artificially increasing tax on a form of energy that he himself wants to get rid of? After all, the Minister can increase the tariffs for heat by increasing the taxation of fossil energy. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet wants the Netherlands off the gas. And for starters, the households have to believe in it. After all, they are easy victims. But what do these households actually think of that? What's the status of the support? Recently there was an investigation in a regional magazine, conducted among the readers, and the statement there was: I want to be able to make my own choice whether my house is connected to the gas network. That is a clear wording. Just like the outcome, because no less than three quarters agreed with this. Off the gas, it is not asked of the citizens, it is forced on the citizens. Finally, Mr President, the costs. The whole energy transition costs a lot of money. But how much exactly, no one knows. It recently became known that it costs about €18,000 to live gasless. €18,000 per house. And we're not even talking about the cost of removing all the gas lines, the whole gas infrastructure. Because that is what it is intended to do, so that it becomes physically impossible to connect houses to the gas grid any longer, because imagine that one day one would be tempted to use gas again. It's a crazy lot of money. Households don't have that kind of money. One million households already live in energy poverty. People can't pay the bill anymore. Do those who support the energy transition really not realize that they are throwing citizens into financial misery, even deeper than they often are? Or is it a matter of looking away, of contempt for the citizen? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I give the floor to Mr Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Those who review the revised Heat Act for legality, efficiency and feasibility will soon be ready. The law meets these criteria. However, we are debating it today, because the Heat Act is essential in order to achieve a successful energy transition. We anticipate future legislation with this debate. On paper, we are well on our way to achieving the climate objectives. The Climate Act is ready and seems to be widely worn. The climate agreement is nearing completion, although social contradictions are visible there. Large companies, which are large users of fossil fuels in particular, need to make considerable financial and technical efforts to become more sustainable. And that's stressful. We're a long way on paper. But that's paper, and paper is patient. In reality, we are at the beginning of a long process of energy transition. A change that will cost blood, sweat and tears but also offers many innovative opportunities. In some cases, two objectives seem to be mixed: reducing CO emissions and the government's decision to stop extraction of the Groningen gas at least by 2030. Sometimes these objectives seem to clash. Those who switch from coal plants to gas plants when used take a step in the right direction in terms of CO reduction, but do not contribute to the cessation of the extraction of Groningen gas unless that gas is imported. But that makes us more dependent on Russia in particular, which in turn creates another problem. There are more dilemmas: 30,000 people work in the fossil energy sector in Northern Netherlands alone. It cannot be that we are creating an economic and social problem here in a region which has hardly benefited from natural gas extraction, but is reaping the acidic fruits of it. How's the Minister looking at this? Mr. Chairman. There's something on the other side. Sustainable energy, especially wind at sea, offers opportunities and jobs. Especially when wind energy is converted into hydrogen by electrolysis, which also allows the gas pipelines that run throughout our country and which have been built for billions to be reused. But this requires an innovative programme that has been developed and deserves our support in the North of the Netherlands by many knowledge partners, companies and TU Delft. Can the Minister inform us how he views the development of the hydrogen economy as one of the possibilities in the energy transition and how the Empire intends to support this programme, which has previously been offered to the cabinet? Anyone who wants to speed up the energy transition needs a good Heat Act with opportunities to invest in heat networks in a cost-effective way. The Council of State is right to point that out. There should also be opportunities for competition on the networks so that the costs for consumers can be reduced. The release of the NMDA principle is necessary in order to achieve real pricing, especially if plans are to become reality that are now being forged at the climate table in order to increase gas taxation by 75% while at the same time reducing electricity taxation. We need to come up with new reference estimates. This law is only a small intermediate step, as the Minister also acknowledges in his reply to our questions in the reply. Heat Act 2.0 must solve a number of identified bottlenecks. The aim of this intermediate step is to protect tied consumers who are dealing with a monopolist as a heat supplier. However, the envisaged heat duty, as laid down in the coalition agreement, is much wider. This law would not be the appropriate instrument for this purpose, writes the Cabinet in the reply. In what way does the cabinet intend to legally guarantee heat law, the D66 Group asks the minister. Can the Minister also state, Mr President, what is the timetable of Heat Act 2.0 and what is the agenda of it? In the light of the energy transition, speed is required. Collective heat systems are necessary to reduce CO emissions. Now, a collective heat system connected to a coal power plant causes less emissions than the usual individual gas-fired central heating boiler. Please note that this is not a plea for the conversion to a collective coal-fired system, but it underlines the need for a massive effort to achieve sustainable, collective heat systems in the energy transition. In the renovation of housing by corporations, this will be, in addition to isolation, the most important transition tool, and this presupposes clear and clear regulation. By motion, the House of Representatives called on the government to investigate alternatives to the gas reference. Can the Minister inform us about the results of this investigation, necessary for the final Heat Act? Mr. Chairman. Denmark can be an example for the Netherlands in terms of heat grids. The country does not know the luxury of its own fossil resources. It has therefore been forced to look for energy systems that are more economical than natural gas, which in Denmark is significantly more expensive than in the Netherlands. The Danish system also accepts local price differences when a supplier price is created. In the Netherlands, this is only possible if prices are below the NMDA price. Why not use local creativity and circumstances to get to the lowest possible price, even if it differs from the average? Now you can't. But in the light of the transition, I'd like to see that possibility. In several areas we accept local price differences, for example the ozb. Why wouldn't this be possible for heat supply? How does the Cabinet view this? I'd like a response. Opponents of differentiation of systems often point out that the energy transition should not lead to higher prices for the user. That sounds like an illusion to me. The energy transition will cost many billions and whether it goes through the treasury or through consumer prices..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The violent reactions to the proposal by climate table chairman Samsom to substantially increase gas prices show that many people do not accept this. For us, it is important that there should be a balanced distribution of costs so that the people with the lowest incomes do not decline. There must be a balanced income policy. In Room No 24723 no. 20 January, which is the Jetten/Dik-Faber motion, states that, when connecting to heat grids, the source with the least CO emissions must take precedence over other sources. This is not regulated in the draft law before us. The Cabinet undertakes to regulate this in Heat Act 2.0. But how do we prevent long-term contracts from being concluded that are not sustainable? I'd like a response from the Minister. Furthermore, geothermal energy is mentioned as an opportunity for a sustainable solution. In Groningen, however, a major geothermal project has been shut down on behalf of the State surveillance of the Mines, because there is a fear of earthquakes. Is this related to gas extraction, or is geothermal energy with our Dutch subsurface not widely usable? Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group is in favour of open networks so that suppliers can negotiate access to the network on the basis of clear conditions and conditions. This is very important for consumers, but it is also important to speed up the transition to collective, sustainable heat networks. How does the cabinet intend to promote such a transparent system? Will this also be part of the Heat Act 2.0? Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask the following question. When will the Decision on service charges be amended? This is very important for the housing corporations. It has also been promised in the House of Representatives, but has not yet been dealt with. That's trouble with the Rent Commission. Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group looks forward with interest to the Minister's answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u6	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. I give the floor to Mrs Klip.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u7	Madam President, thank you very much. "Welcome to the new climate." I quote a statement by our national weatherman Gerrit Hiemstra from over a year ago. The flooding of the last May month confirms the tone of that welcome greeting, as well as, for example, the leaked report of the UN climate panel IPCC a few weeks ago. The cabinet takes the climate agreements made in Paris at the end of 2015 very seriously and follows two parallel tracks towards the targeted CO-poor society in 2050. The first track has now resulted in the five climate tables that we see daily in the press and that will deliver their first proficiency test on July 10th, in a few days' time. At the same time, a national climate law has been worked on. The second is a review of existing legislation and regulation, which will take place in four instalments. This gradually eliminates the legal bumps on the road of the energy transition as far as possible and lays the foundations for that transition. This outlined process is reinforced by a third track of more recent date, namely the phasing-out of gas extraction from the Groningen field, to 0 bcm by 2030 at the latest. You don't have to be visionary to realize that the heat supply will soon have to become more durable and diverse. The VVD Group supports the Minister in his efforts to gradually facilitate the energy transition also in terms of legislation and regulation. The present, mainly technical revision of the Heat Act addresses a number of points, sometimes partly. The members of my group therefore see the proposed legislative amendment as an interim step, an interim trampoline for the purposes of the Heat Act 2.0, intended for next year. My group therefore supports the legislative proposal, but would like to take advantage of this debate to put a single question to the Minister in the run-up to the Heat Act 2.0. Because one of the biggest bottlenecks, the cost calculation, is only partially resolved. Due to the current dominance of gas, part of the tariff components remain the gas reference, limited by additional costs calculated by the Authority Consumer & Market in connection with the necessary dual piping system. This is still unclear for the customer and, because of the low returns, for suppliers, because it is not based on actual costs and therefore a brake on the intended growth of heat networks. We understand the Minister's reasoning and appreciate his commitment in the present proposal to encourage the accession of new, sustainable heat producers through a number of measures. The members of the VVD Group are also positive about the possibility for customers and suppliers to create a little more room in the tariff setting by mutual agreement. However, there is still a chicken egg situation. Due to the limited market activities of heat producers, competition is not yet possible and the construction of heat networks is stagnating. On the other hand, the long-term contract obligations and the 100% supply obligation are a bump for companies with residual heat and thus a threshold for the accession of renewable heat sources. This is therefore a lack of choice for the consumer, so that broad acceptance is not yet achieved. Does the Minister see any further possibilities in the short term to overcome this situation? Socialisation - which, Madam President, is always a bit of a separate word for a liberal word about the costs of transporting and distributing heat, as already happens in the case of gas, would be part of the solution. However, it is still too early to do so, because of the limited size of the market already mentioned. How does the Minister view this with a view to the future? Does he think this is desirable at all? The electricity and gas supply is divided between the supplier and the network operator. Several suppliers can offer their energy on the public network and consumers have a choice. Again, we understand that the heat field is still too small for a next step. The VVD Group is looking forward to the Minister's view on the future status of heat grids. Are those crowds gonna be private or both? Does the Minister see a distinction between a main transport network and a local network? A few comments on the strategy for the most sustainable heat supply, again, in anticipation of the Heat Act 2.0. The members of my group are well aware that this debate is also taking place at the climate tables. In our view, the most sustainable heat supply is also subject to strategic trias energy. Point 1: of course reducing the heat demand as much as possible. Point 2: the maximum possible use of the local and regionally available, preferably in the long term, ever more sustainable residual heat. In our view, the knife cuts both ways. After all, industry, cold stores, data centres, shops and other buildings still discharge a lot of heat to surface water and air. This only strengthens the heat stress caused by climate change, especially in the city. Storage in summer and the construction of heat grids are of course necessary. Thirdly, the remaining demand must, of course, be generated as much as possible from sustainable sources. For neighbourhoods with sufficient housing density and heat around the corner, it would therefore be wise to focus initially on the construction of heat grids. In any case, the residual heat present is used sustainably. Does the Minister share this thought? In his view, how far should the freedom of choice of residents go? Madam President. I also finish with a quote by Gerrit Hiemstra: "the climate is not waiting for us." Members of the VVD Group obviously await the Minister's reaction with interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Klip. I give the floor to Mrs Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are discussing today the amendment of the Heat Act, a law designed to protect consumers who do not use gas, for example at too high prices. It is good when people can trust that their interests are judged fairly. The Minister therefore believes that this law can help to ensure that more people can make a sustainable choice and that this will help us to get rid of our fossil energy supply more quickly. Before I go into the law, I have to get something off my chest. At the end of the 1960s we celebrated that the whole of the Netherlands, with the exception of Gorcum and the Wadden Islands, was connected to gas from Groningen. We could have done that in four and a half years. The Dutch government took a lot of costs and handed out presents to show that what we did was really good. It really was a great achievement. But now we know that gas didn't come out of the ground unpunished. The Groningers have paid ample for it, in the form of mental and physical damage. We are looking for ways of getting rid of the gas and connecting it to sustainable alternatives. If we really take that seriously, then the government is taking the lead now, as in the 1960s. To include the whole of the Netherlands in this process, we need to reverse the current state of affairs, in which we see that the highest incomes in particular benefit from the subsidies intended for a better environment. In stark contrast to this, housing corporations do invest in solar panels, but it also prevents homes from being poorly maintained and people from staying in houses that are even unhealthy, because there is mold on the walls. I am convinced that people want to do quite well for the environment, because we also leave it for our children and grandchildren, but unfortunately that desire gets in the background when you live in a house that is even unhealthy for you. Then, of course, you want that problem solved first. Does the Minister agree with me that we should also give them the opportunity to participate in this process? An important objective of this law is to increase citizens' confidence in government policy in matters such as collective heat, alternative energy, energy transition. However, that confidence is embarrassed by, for example, high petrol prices compared to duty-free kerosene, or poor housing insulation, or earthquakes caused by human action. How is the Minister going to restore that broken trust now? Has he taken due account of this in this bill? If so, in what way? We have that principle that the polluter must pay has been a priority for years. So let us really make that happen and stop pampering the biggest polluters. I'm sure the Minister knows what I'm talking about. Can he tell us how he's going to apply "polluter pays" to this file? How is he going to earn the support of those who want to become gas-free, but who cannot pay €18,000 on average for a house adjustment? In short, how is he really going to distribute that bill fairly? I go now to the content of the law and I start with the protection that the law must offer. If you are connected to gas, you can choose between providers, such as the cheapest or the best customer service provider, but that does not apply when you are connected to a heat grid, such as district heating or block heating. These people do not use gas, but heat their house with the residual heat from, for example, a factory. Only that residual heat is supplied by only one supplier and so you are dealing with a monopoly. We all know that monopolists do not always charge a fair price and apply fair conditions. We must, of course, protect these consumers. Another point is the feasibility. We often talk in this Chamber about assigning responsibilities to municipalities and provinces. Now I see that the alderman of the municipality of Utrecht calls on the government to allow building-related loans to be issued, for which they want to set up district banks. Simply put, there's money in a neighborhood bank. Residents there take out a loan for the sustainability of their homes and pay them off with the amount they had previously lost to the energy bill. In the event of a move, the loan will then be transferred to another resident, who will continue to redeem. To make that possible, the law needs to be amended. I would therefore like to know whether the Minister can and will continue with this type of municipal initiative? How does he intend to comply with the agreement that two million Dutch homes will no longer be connected to natural gas by 2030 and that all homes will be gasless by 2050? Wouldn't he rather deal with the help of the municipalities with both hands? Mr President, I come to a conclusion. This law is not a final product but an intermediate step. And that's lucky, because there are still some loose ends. For the moment, I would like to know when there is clarity about the allocation of costs and when the link with the gas price is released. I would like to encourage the Minister to pay more attention to initiatives taken by municipalities, for example. Finally, I am very curious to see how the Minister will achieve the goal of getting rid of gas by 2050 and in what way he thinks he is the supporter of the people. Who do you really choose and how do you show it? As always, I look forward to the Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u10	Thank you, Mrs Meijer. I'm pressing the mood bell because there's gonna be a maiden speech. I hope that even more Members will join us to listen to Mrs Fiers' maiden speech. No, if I press again, everyone's gonna think I'm suspending and they're not coming at all. I give the floor to Mrs Fiers. It's a maiden speech. That means we can't be interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u11	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna show you this briefly and then I'm gonna put it away. This is a zip code from the Brabant municipality of Bladel, my birthplace. Pride sandy soil. I come from a working family and I was lovingly raised with my brothers Joris and Jeroen by my parents Cor and Nelly Fiers. There was nothing short of heat, today's subject, but there wasn't much money. Every dime had to be turned around. At the kitchen table there was plenty of talk about the situation throughout the world; close and far away. By the way, not only was there talk, but a lot was also done. Reflecting, yet a core quality of a Member of Parliament, was in Bladel the breeding ground for my worldview and the belief in social democracy. Van Bladel I went to postcode 5622 Cornelis Jacob in my city of Eindhoven. First, I was an operating assistant, working in Haiti, among other things. Later I was manager in addiction care and then I was daily alderman to give solidarity hands and feet. And now to The Hague, to postal code 2513 AA: the First Chamber. That feels like a big step. I've read some of my colleagues' maiden speeches. By the way, they are all on the website and are fun to read. I understand I'm not the only one standing here with some awe and a little stage fright before the maiden speech. "What do you want to achieve in the First Chamber?" I was regularly asked as a question after my swearing in. That is quite a good question, because it has been up for three years. There's only one year left. But actually, there's plenty of time. After all, it only takes one night to make a difference in this Chamber. What can you expect from me? Let me begin with a reflection on the role of the member of the First Chamber. The State Committee on Parliamentary System came up with an interim report last Thursday. Many people were eagerly looking forward to it. Some believe that the proposals do not go far enough. Others consider the proposals to be too far-reaching. Everyone seems to agree that democratic renewal is necessary. The state committee focuses on renewing the instruments, such as the referendum. We're going to talk about that here. But perhaps the starting point "better the world, start with yourself" is also appropriate and at least as effective in the much-needed democratic renewal. This principle is not about the instrument, but about the behaviour of people, of you and of me. Which brings me back to the question of what to expect from me. That is not a repetition along the lines of the coalition opposition, as conducted in the House of Representatives. In my view, the First Chamber does not add enough. Then what is it? A fair assessment of the laws before us, tested against feasibility, enforcement and proportionality. That sounds very simple. Whether it is, I'm going to experience it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u12	You'll be on the subject of the Heat Act, won't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u13	Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's what's gonna happen. Mr. Chairman. What's gonna be my priority in this room? This includes two things, to stay in good PvdA tradition. Fighting within the constitutional role of the First Chamber for a just society. And two: laws test for doability for ordinary people. I'll start with the first, a just society. It's an ideal life. In a just society, your zip code, your last name, your looks, whether you have poor or rich parents or your sexual preference doesn't determine your future. A just society offers equal opportunities for all. There is no discrimination on the basis of religion, belief in life, political orientation, race, gender or on any basis whatsoever. That is the first article of our constitution for a reason. A just society has no division between the haves and harnots. However, that just society has not yet been achieved. There's a world to win. Too often there are examples showing this, as recently the example of the actual retirement age. Higher-educated people stop on average ten months earlier than lower-educated people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u14	I would like to ask you again whether you are going to come to the subject of the Heat Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u15	Oh, yeah. I'm almost there. For financial reasons, people with lower education are often unable to stop. That lower-educated less-long life comes with that. The RIVM comes to a difference of six years. Lower educated people thus subsidise the AOW of higher educated people. How unjust is this? Mr. Chairman. But also today's topic, heat and energy, are examples of this. The Nibud calculated that lower educated people pay 5.5% of their income to energy and higher educated people 3.5%. So here too, the question is how we share the pleasures and the burden fairly. And how do we prevent a accumulation of negative effects in certain groups in our society? Mr. Chairman. That also calls for an active role of the First Chamber. In the context of the assessment of the quality of legislation, the question of the impact of laws on justice in society is addressed. Do they make the division bigger or smaller? Are citizens, workers, energy users, tenants and consumers adequately protected? These questions also apply to the current amendment of the Heat Act, but to an even greater extent to the upcoming climate-related laws and regulations. A number of speakers have already mentioned this. This amendment to the Heat Act is an intermediate step. The forthcoming energy transition calls for more fundamental revisions in the short term. The impact of the energy transition is immense and will have great consequences for everyone. That is why it is very good news that in the House of Representatives there is a climate law that receives broad support and that it is a law that looks beyond one period of government, because that is necessary. The central question here is: how do we avoid a new climate divide between climate winners and climate losers and who pays the bill? In order to be able to answer these questions, it is appropriate to first consider the principles underlying these laws and regulations. The members of the PvdA Group are curious about the principles that the government is going to apply. They would like to hear an answer from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Of course, the members of the PvdA Group themselves also have an opinion on these principles. I'd like to explain it to you. Again, it's two things. First of all, the polluter pays principle applies to us. At the same time, we want a fair distribution of desires and burdens. In a just society, the polluter pays. It's kind of like home. There too you clean up your own mess, especially if others can suffer from it or even get sick. What makes perfect sense at home is usually on a larger scale. The polluter takes room from all of us, takes away our clean air, clean water and clean soil. There's nothing solid about that. Sustainable action requires that the bill of these polluting activities is not passed on to the future, to our grandchildren or elsewhere, to people abroad. Moreover, 'polluter pays' provides the incentive to change in the right place: at the source of pollution. The same applies to the members of my group, including companies. The government states in the proposed legislative amendment that the 'polluter pays' adage is indeed a priority, but the government states that we must also take account of the negative economic impact on the export-oriented industry. The PvdA shares the view that a level playing field is needed for companies, starting in Europe. What efforts is the government making to achieve a level playing field in Europe? And what if that level playing field is long overdue? Will the government stay still, or will we, as the Netherlands, also be the frontrunner? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In a just society, lusts and burdens are distributed fairly. It is not unimaginable that large polluting companies are threatening to leave the Netherlands or Europe if they have to pay for their fair share of the climate, the polluter pays for the transition. "Climate refugees-min 2.0" you could call them. Does the government then stick to the polluter pays principle? Or is a larger part of the account deposited with households? I would also like an answer from the Minister. Changing hurts, too. Changing will be at the expense of fossil employment. You will understand that that is a major point for us. So switching to new forms of energy also requires huge investment in people. The SER recently issued a profit warning. Jobs will disappear, but many new jobs will also be created. There is a serious shortage of workers to carry out the entire energy transition. So there is work to be done to train, train and train employees. How do we ensure that people are equipped with the new jobs that are to be created? Is it not high time for a national energy, job and training plan to train young people with job guarantees, and for retraining people who see their jobs disappear in the fossil industry? Fortunately, a lot is already happening in this area. But according to the ESC, that's not enough. What efforts can we expect from the Minister in this area? A just society is also about a fair distribution of power and counterpower. The present amendment to the Heat Act guarantees the protection of consumers affected by a monopolist as a heat supplier at price level. This issue has already been referred to by a number of colleagues, which will also apply to the upcoming climate regulation. How do we prevent unhealthy monopolies? How does the government react to that? What do we do collectively and what do we not? I would like to hear from the Minister whether he can reflect on this subject. It is clear that the practical implementation will be a major task. It seems to the members of the PvdA Group that it would be wise to also regulate implementing powers. What does the Minister think of the idea of a sort of 'climate commissioner', as happened with that other major theme, water? A woman or man, who works behind the scenes, together with the many involved, and with a lot of energy, a lot of work. Someone with a relatively independent position, who, like a watchdog, can keep everyone to himself. And what can we learn from the experience of the Delta Commissioner Water in this respect? Then we have our second priority. I'm gonna talk about that a little bit less. The "suitability" of laws for ordinary people. Last week a very interesting meeting was held here in this Chamber on this subject. By the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau this has been described as a shift from the "haves and portots" to the "cans and cannots." The Scientific Council for Government Policy also wrote a very commendable report on citizens' capacity to act. A report which, as far as my group is concerned, does not disappear in a drawer, but is also actively taken up by this Chamber. It is about skills of people who go beyond "knowing something" or "can do something." According to the WRR, the ability to do so is important for the degree of self-reliance of people. I quote an interesting passage from this report: "A realistic government takes into account that "normal" people, due to choice pressure, stress, sadness, poverty, or old age, are not always equally alert and well organized. A realistic government ensures that small mistakes do not have major consequences." A realistic government, which therefore takes into account the "workability" of laws and regulations. An important starting point in the test on the feasibility of legislation here in the Upper House. This also applies to the avalanche of climate laws and regulations that are about to come to us. How can we make this work for people, not only from the financial glasses, but also from the behavioral sciences? For example, the WRR advised last week at the expert meeting to set up climate panels to test the law when making the law. Is the Minister prepared to apply an explicit test on compliance with climate legislation? I'll come to a conclusion. In a maiden speech, following this relatively clear change to the Heat Act, it is wonderful to reflect on my ideals and to bring them into line with the role and responsibility of the First Chamber. Finally. For my group, climate legislation must not become a postcode lottery with climate winners and climate losers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u16	Thank you, Mrs Fiers, for standing still. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. You have been trained as an operating assistant at the Fontys Hogeschool in Eindhoven. Then you went to work as an operating assistant in the hospital now called Máxima Medical Center Eindhoven. In the evenings you followed the programme Management for operating departments and became a supervisor in the operating department in Eindhoven. However, you had not finished your studies, because in the meantime you also took up the study of Policy and Organisational Sciences at the Catholic University of Brabant in Tilburg. During that time you also worked in a hospital in Haiti for a few months. In 1999, you made the switch to the North Brabant Addiction Care Novadic-Kentron where you became manager. At the beginning of this century, your political career began. From 2002 to 2006 you were a member of the city council in Eindhoven for the PvdA. In 2006 you became a list leader for your party. After the municipal elections, you became an alderman and a member of the college of mayor and aldermen in the city of light. Mr Don was also a member of that college. In his words: "A great time." In 2010 you again became a list leader and after a short formation period you were again installed as an alderman. This time you had the portfolio living, neighborhoods, space and civic participation. You remained alderman until March 2013. Since 2014 you have been the director of Groen Development Fund Brabant. The aim of the fund is to realize the nature network Brabant, formerly the main ecological structure and ecological connecting zones. On 3 April 2018 you were sworn in as a member of the Upper House. In addition to your work and politics, you are even more active in society. For example, you are a member of the boards of supervision of a rock and a health care organisation, and chairman of the Youth Sports Fund Eindhoven. You have been particularly active online for years. Since your membership of this Chamber, you give your followers a glimpse into the lives of the Senate and the Senator on Twitter and Instagram. In your own words: "To portray the wonderful world behind the First Chamber door." I will tell you: the wondrous world of the First Chamber means keeping to the subject on the table during the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u17	I thought you might be a little cocky once in a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u18	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u19	I always understood it was allowed at a maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u20	No. I've made it very clear. I warned you twice, but I let it go because it was your maiden speech. Even so, it is the intention to stick to the subject and not to give some detailed political statement about your personal motives. Anyway, it's in the Acts. Once again, welcome to this wonderful world, mine then, and we look forward to your further observations and entry into the Upper Chamber. I shall suspend the sitting to allow colleagues to congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u21	I give the floor to Mrs Teunissen, Mr Koffeman. Because Mrs Teunissen is sick. Go ahead, Mr. Coffeeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u22	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about a bill that comes from the 2015 Heat Vision. In this vision, the cabinet has expressed the ambition to achieve a trend break: heat must be given a position equivalent to natural gas and electricity in our energy system. As far as the Party for Animals is concerned, this is where friction begins, which, although we know it causes heat, can also lead to frictions. As far as my group is concerned, the equivalence of heat to gas and electricity is already failing. A similar starting point should rather be sought in the ambition to at least transcend the fossil age. Sustainable, locally generated heat should be given priority, and should not be on an equal footing with natural gas or residual heat from the fossil industry. We are faced with a number of bottlenecks when it comes to how we can stay warm in the future. We're spoiled. Natural gas was a great smoker that made us believe in the self-evidentness of prosperity. For a number of bottlenecks, the proposal does indeed provide a solution. This will improve price regulation for consumers. But given the urgency, which was reaffirmed yesterday in NRC, it offers too little solace or could even be counterproductive. Timothy Wirth, a colleague in the American Senate, had asked the meteorological service in 1988 what was usually the hottest day in June. And it became a new record that 23rd June 1988: the hottest June day up to then measured, with a temperature above 36°C. In order to strengthen his plea in the Senate, Wirth made sure that the windows had been open all night, so that the air conditioning had been lifted and it became hot in the plenary room. This gave the American Senate a taste of what might have been in store for them. James Hansen, a renowned climate scientist, was the first to publicly declare in 1988 that global warming was becoming apparent as a result of human intervention. His predictions turned out to be very accurate 30 years later. It is too far for this debate, but I can recommend everyone to take note of it 30 years after that, as a blood-smelling wake-up call. In the light of this, it is questionable whether, in view of the urgency of the matter, this legislative proposal is still satisfactory. Do we do the right thing, do we do enough and do it fast enough? With that look, my group has looked at the proposal. The aim of this bill is to provide better protection to consumers who are bound for a long time and who are dealing with a monopolist as a heat supplier. This should increase confidence in collective heat as a product and thus the potential of heat supply as an alternative to natural gas. However, this law does not provide better protection for consumers, quite the contrary. If natural gas is phased out by priced out of the market, we have actually already started to do so, at least by talking about it, it is obsolete to use the gas price as a reference for a maximum price for heat. However, in this proposal, the Minister uses the gas price as a reference for the price of heat, the "no more than different principle." Last week, it became clear from the climate table negotiations that the gas price could rise by €0.20 per cubic metre in the coming years and that the electricity levy would fall by 7.3%. The question is what protection this bill offers to citizens when the gas price is rising as it is now being proposed in preparation for the climate agreement. What guarantee does the proposal provide that the energy of a heat connection will not become much more expensive? Will it be a warm clean-up of the gas stove, or a chilly clean-up for which the citizen has to go deeper into the pouch? I'd like a response from the Minister to that. The cabinet wants everyone to get off the gas and more people to switch to a heat grid. This bill is intended to increase confidence in heat grids. In that case, it should be clear that the maximum price for heat will not rise with the gas price. What, then, is the guarantee given to the citizen that he will be able to get rid of the gas in an affordable manner? I'd like a response from the Minister. Now that the load on gas seems to be rising, the reference with a fossil world has become acutely superfluous. An anachronism that does not belong as a benchmark in legislation. The cabinet indicated that it would consider alternatives to the gas reference and pass on the real costs of heat to the consumer in the future. But sustainable heat grids are not cheap. The real cost of sustainable heat could therefore be higher than the current gas price. What alternatives does the Minister have in mind? Will they be better for consumers, or better for producers and monopolists? I'd like a response. Another point in the bill where consumer protection goes wrong is the new Article 3c. It provides that consumers may terminate a heat supply agreement, but in two cases there is an exception, namely the situation in which termination of the supply contract is not technically possible or where termination of the heat supply agreement leads to a permanent disadvantage for another consumer. It thus introduces a lex specialis, a law which takes precedence over general legislation. An exception which goes beyond consumer protection, which is actively eliminated. How can this be reconciled with the purpose of this bill, better consumer protection, I ask the Minister. A final point on the decline in consumer protection. The current Heat Act provides for consumers to receive financial compensation in the event of a failure in the supply of heat that lasts longer than 4 hours. The bill provides that a heat supplier is not obliged to pay compensation if the malfunction lasts less than 24 hours and no malfunctions occurred during a period of 12 months prior to the malfunction. The Cabinet did not comply with the Council of State's advice to remove this measure from the proposal, as heat grid operators would not otherwise be guaranteed income in the event of a malfunction. However, the starting point in the event of a malfunction should not be the financial incentive, but the consumer's compensation for the inconvenience caused by a malfunction. How does the government prevent consumers from literally standing in the cold here? I would like a response and also a clear response to the question as to why the Council of State has deviated from its opinion. The second objective of this proposal is to better align the regulation of collective heat supply with future developments in the energy transition. This is done by obliging the government to report on sustainability and enabling the growth of low CO sources. The growth of CO-poor sources regulates the bill through so-called negotiated access. In order to improve the position of new producers, this bill ensures that the manager of the heat grid presents the main network characteristics at the request of a producer. This sounds nice, but in fact does not regulate what is needed for the heat transition. The proposal does not regulate the much-needed priority for sustainable local resources on the networks. In replying to the written questions, the Minister says that it should focus on a more open nature of the large networks so that suppliers of new sustainable sources can negotiate access to the network on the basis of clear conditions and conditions. The Minister acknowledges that there is a need for a public balance between affordability, security of supply and sustainability. The Minister wants to play a leading role in the municipality, but at the same time completely eliminates this role by introducing in this bill only negotiations between a commercial monopolist and potential producers. How does he guarantee that there will be no distortion in the situation in which the government has checked? According to the Minister, what is the role of local authorities still in this situation? Is the new Heat Act giving priority to local sustainable sources? How is it prevented in the meantime from concluding new fossil contracts, or extending existing contracts, with regard to the feeding of heat grids? Contracts that will make it more difficult for sustainable sources to join? In my group's view fossil waste heat from industry should not be allowed access to the grid at a time when a more sustainable source is available. At the moment when a geothermal source and a residual heat source can supply both, the geothermal source should always be given priority, as long as we are convinced that geothermal is a sustainable source. The bill does not provide for this in any way at this time. Can the Minister promise that this will be dealt with in the new Heat Act? This commitment is already very important for the development of sustainable sources and the position of sustainable sources in the negotiated access proposed by the Cabinet. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I'm concluding. In many respects, this bill leads to a deterioration in consumer protection. In addition, the proposal does not provide sufficient guarantees for consumers to be able to switch to a sustainable energy source without being rushed at higher costs. Nor does the proposal provide an incentive for fossil heat suppliers to switch to sustainable sources. Criteria for sustainable sources remain out, let alone giving priority to sustainable sources. The way in which the government now organises heat grids does not lead to a sustainable heat infrastructure but to a fossil lock-in. That's a big problem. I would like the Minister to clarify how such a lock-in could be prevented. Finally, the Dutch public is asked to go off the gas and make houses gasless. That is a good aim, but I would like to hear from the cabinet what it does to ensure that government buildings meet those conditions at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u23	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. I give the floor to Mrs Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I congratulate Mrs Fiers on her maiden speech. Today we are discussing the proposal to amend the Heat Act. It's a limited change, actually more of a repair of imperfections than a change that really makes the Heat Act really ready for the future. The urgency of the climate problem is unabated and is becoming increasingly acute. So we don't have time to waste. We also need to stop using gas from Groningen as soon as possible. In the meantime, virtually an emergency has arisen. The Netherlands must therefore get rid of the gas as soon as possible. That is what this Minister says, and we fully support him in this. So heat instead of gas. The current situation to which this Heat Act applies concerns in particular the supply of residual heat from industry and heat released from waste incineration. That's not sustainable heat, which we need to get there as soon as possible. Will the Minister explain how he sees the risk that we will end up in a lock-in situation where we will remain dependent on heat released from the combustion of fossil raw materials in industry or from the incineration of waste, thereby hindering a process aimed at virtually complete reuse or recycling? The main objective of the Heat Act is to protect bound consumers who have to deal with a monopolist as a heat supplier. For this purpose, the tariff shall be subject to a ceiling in accordance with the no-more-than-other principle. The consumer should not be more expensive than when he or she heats the house and tap water with gas. The amendment adds elements to tariff regulation, such as the regulation of tariffs for delivery sets, connection and closure. This is an improvement, but the financial consequences for consumers are unclear. The Council of State also made a comment on this. The Minister then says: yes, there are too many elements in the game, but the expectation is that this will protect the consumer better. We would like to hear this further in this debate. My group regrets that the gas reference is still leading in setting the tariff. The Minister has indicated that this gas reference should remain in place in order to maintain support and in the absence of a good alternative. Can the Minister indicate how he will work out the Dik-Faber motion, which calls for the development of alternatives? It is, of course, ultimately a question of a fair consumer price, with real costs being paid. Does the Minister agree with us? How's he gonna implement that? This amendment also regulates a reporting obligation on the sustainability of heat supply and allows the growth of low CO sources by giving future heat producers the right to obtain relevant information on the situation on the relevant grid. It is a good thing that these first steps are being taken, but it is, of course, not enough in the end. The Minister is against rules now that give priority to the use of sustainable heat, because he sees tension with security of supply and investment security. We are surprised at this. Isn't sustainable heat supposed to be the target? It only depends on the design how the principle of sustainable heat will work out. I'd like an explanation from the Minister. The Minister states that the sustainability of the entire heat supply is wider than the scope of the law. That is indeed the case, because it is much more, like other sources such as renewable electricity and a far-reaching reduction in heat demand through insulation. It is about the optimal mix of energy saving, sustainable heat and renewable energy generation. That mix can be different by region. The Minister sees a role of direction for the municipalities, which have to decide at local or regional level what the best heat options are. In order to develop that optimal mix of best heat options, space for experiments is of great importance, both legally and financially. This law amendment contains an experimental article. We would like to hear from the Minister how he will ensure that this experimental space will actually be used and can be used. For example, can municipalities use this with local and regional parties? How will he facilitate this? In the Netherlands there are now a lot of small heat grids, but there will soon be much larger grids with a much wider range. Experimentation space is also needed for this, as well as financial support, for example through a guarantee. Does the Minister see this as well and what are the plans in this area? We also consider the development of open networks to be extremely important. Is that room gonna be there, too? Fortunately, from 1 July it is no longer mandatory to supply new homes with a gas connection. This applies to all new construction projects for which authorisation is still to be granted. That's good; it was also high time. Unfortunately, there are many ongoing new construction projects that are built with a gas connection. We ask the Minister whether he wants to support future residents or buyers of these homes who themselves do not appreciate a gas connection in their efforts to be safe from gas. I'd like an answer from the Minister. If we want to get rid of the gas towards electricity, also for heating your house and your water, then increasing the energy load on gas combined with a reduction of that on electricity is inevitable. The capacity of citizens is an important criterion. It must never be the case that people with low incomes in poorly isolated homes are mainly charged for this. How does the cabinet and this minister view this important issue? For the time being, housing corporations are not eager to take on a leading role in the conversion of rental houses from the gas. They face a number of financial problems, such as the landlord levy. How does the Minister view this? Will space be found? Mr. Chairman. We are waiting with interest for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. I'll take a look around. None of the Members wishes to speak in the first term. I shall suspend the debate and the sitting until 4.15 p.m. There is no other way, because many Members of Parliament have a committee meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u26	I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u27	Mr. Chairman. The Heat Act was originally the CDA's initiative in 2003. We all forgot, because it's been so long. We talked about it for so long that the law did not enter into force until 2014. Soon after, we found out there were all kinds of things to fix. That took quite a while back then. Now I'm standing here repairing something we've been talking about for quite some time. The purpose of the repair is, of course, the protection of small consumers. They feel overwhelmed. Those are their words, their interest groups say so. And that's true, because they're monopolists, whether it's a government or a private party, both can. Small consumers are at the mercy of a monopolist. Sometimes that monopolist not only takes care of the transport, but also the generation or supply of the heat itself. It is immediately striking that several spokesmen have said this: the purpose of the repair is not to make it more sustainable. We provide the traffic rules and they do not in themselves ensure that cars will be electric. We're just making sure we have proper traffic rules. If you want electric cars, you don't have to change the traffic regulations, but you have to change them in a different way. I'll come back to that later. The repair removes the bottlenecks in the current law, but anticipates a more fundamental revision of the Heat Act. That's what several senators have emphasized. Have we solved all the problems? No, there have been plenty of examples of this in the debate. Of course, it always remains the case that suppliers of heat complain about the efficiency and customers about the costs. These are mirrored concerns, but they often occur at the same time. That is a fact, and we may never be able to remove it altogether. I'll walk through some of the topics. Firstly, several questions have been asked about how to proceed with the no-more-than-other principle. We have the gas reference: how, why, when do we get rid of it? That is the first subject I wanted to deal with. Several spokesmen have asked questions about this. Then there is the sustainability of priority issues. Two different priority issues have been raised. I'm gonna walk past it a little bit. Then several questions have been asked about the sustainability of the built environment: how are we going to deal with them? We have consumer protection and regulation. In addition, it should be noted that the legislative proposal covers at most one of these five subjects, but that is okay, because you are asking the questions and I am trying to answer them. But if it's too far away from the bill, I'm gonna try to speed it up a little bit. Let's start with the gas reference. There is, no more than usual. Questions have been asked about this by Mr Van Dijk, Mr Pijlman, Mr Koffeman and Mrs Vos. I also understand from Mrs Meijer that she has questions about this. The gas reference is coming to its end. She can't stand the time. There's a heat modality we want to get rid of. It could be getting more expensive. There is also a heat modality that we want to go to, so we want to make it cheaper and cheaper. It is illogical to link what you hope is cheaper to what may be more expensive later. As far as the reverse is concerned, it's also clumsy. If it is even more expensive, one of the speakers has said that it may be more expensive for some time to come, then it is also clumsy to make it artificially cheap, because then it cannot be out. The gas reference therefore needs to be renewed in all respects. She's come to the end of her life. It is obvious that the Heat Act 2.0 will have to do so in order to introduce some form of cost reflectivity: something that has to do with costs, without giving the parties the free hand to increase costs indefinitely. That's quite an assignment. A motion has also been tabled in the House of Representatives. The assignment to professionals to make proposals for this is about now. I expect a solid piece of work in November, then we can inform the Chamber about that in early 2019. That must be the input for the Heat Act 2.0. As the various speakers have said, there must be a different system. It may be, as Mr Pijlman says, that this creates price differences, also locally. If you create a cost-based system, there may be differences in costs and therefore in rates. That makes sense. It is certainly not right to socialise this whole thing. I'll come back to that later. If you socialize not within nets, but over nets, no one has an incentive to pay attention and then things can go wrong. Sometimes you have to accept that in a district where it's complicated, it's more expensive than in a neighborhood where it's easier. That's the way it is. That's what you got with the foundation. If you live on the sand in The Hague, or somewhere on the peat, you have quite different costs for foundations. We don't socialize that either. Houses are different, conditions are different, so costs may also be different. I recently visited the management of the heat grid in Copenhagen. There you can see that there are all kinds of different heat sources and different rates. I believe that I have reassured a number of speakers by saying that we all think that we should go to another form of reference, but also by telling them what the path to it is. Then we get the question of sustainability. How do we force us to make it more sustainable? A heat grid is nothing but that we supply heat centrally for different homes. That doesn't mean it's sustainably generated heat. In fact, most heat networks in the Netherlands are not sustainable at all, that's just some kind of block heating or district heating that doesn't have to be sustainable at all. The strategy is you have to start somewhere. If you set up a heat grid, it is not always possible to start immediately with the most sustainable option. This is not the case in Copenhagen either, which is a phasering that runs beyond 2030. You'll see that here, too. Not only with existing heat networks, but also with new ones you will see that you start somewhere, but always from a vision of how to proceed. We have to make sure we stay on the path to 2050. If we're not on the path to 2050, it's already wrong by 2030. Then we are on the wrong path and we have created all kinds of lock-in situations, as has been mentioned three times. How do you deal with residual heat? Let's be practical about this. If residual heat in the future is a kind of heat that one deliberately maintains in order to deliver residual heat from a fossil source, then it gradually becomes a fossil source itself. That will also be noticed, because the ETS system is going to press on that fossil source, making it more expensive, et cetera. In the short term, however, there are a lot of forms of residual heat that you otherwise just throw away. In waste, we don't think it's useful to throw something away, but we want to reuse it. That's what we want with heat. There is residual heat at the moment in all kinds of situations. In that case, on a marginal basis, that is indeed CO-free. It is a shame not to use it, even more so, it is preferable to use the residual heat at that time and not use the geothermal energy for a while. Of course, you do extract heat through geothermals. If you had thrown away the residual heat, you could call it CO-free. If you've deliberately upgraded or maintained it for this purpose, you can't see it that way anymore. So this is an example of something in which you can gradually make the process more sustainable. You can start with a source of residual heat, which also happens here and there, also in Copenhagen, but with the plan to replace it towards 2050 with a purely sustainable source. That could be geothermal, for example. That's a possibility, but that's still not what this Heat Act is about. Again, this is about the Road Traffic Regulations and not about whether the cars become electric, just to use the analogy. This is how this is being considered, but all with the aim of not creating a lock-in situation, which suddenly shows that in 2050 we didn't come out where we wanted to come out. This also needs to be further developed in the climate agreement, because there is a lot to do about the sustainability of the built environment. We are all blessed with a rather fanatical chairwoman who will proclaim these interests at least as loudly as I am doing here. Then we have the question of the short-term priority. In the case of electricity supply too, you have something that regulates the priority issue not in the long term, but in the short term. There is congestion on the net and who gets priority, the windmill or the coal power plant? Then it is very obvious to say: turn down the coal plant and do it with the windmill. Anyone can see that. With a heat grid, that is a bit more complicated, because with heat there are two things different compared to electricity. With electricity, a kWh is a commodity. It's always delivered in the same way and you don't see where it comes from. It can be delivered anywhere, because the power grid can almost be seen as the well-known copper plate. That is not the case with heat. First of all, when it comes to heat, the place where you supply it is quite important, because it comes in as class A but after five kilometers it comes out as class B again. It's been demoted by now. Heat disappears. Electricity has that to a lesser extent. Secondly, it is extremely important at which temperature you deliver something. We always talk about heat with ease. The thermodynamics will never speak of heat with ease. When I was in the refinery, we made quite a difference between heat. The high temperature steam grid ran at 525°C, but we were still with a bahco underneath the pipes to make heat of 40°C something useful. That's very different. It doesn't look alike at all. If you put that together in a heat grid, everyone's gonna be unhappy. So that's more complicated. Such a simple rule of priority is not useful. However, in a heat grid you often see that the supplier is the same as the distributor, who can thus be responsible for the organisation on the grid and who itself benefits from giving priority to the most sustainable, but at marginal costs also the most cheap option. There is therefore a need for a more nuanced reflection on this than on the concept of "precedence" in electricity. Mrs. Klip gives me a case and says: let's practice somewhere. Suppose you have a densely built residential area and you have residual heat. Isn't it obvious to use that residual heat for that grid? Yeah, that's pretty obvious, but it's still not sure. I have more questions about that. For example, if it is a new high density building area, then a high temperature heat source may not be necessary at all. Maybe there's another heat questioner in the same neighborhood that needs high temperature heat. Still the question is whether we also prevent a lock-in. This is customization. I will come up with how we are going to do that, because the whole exercise of making the neighbourhoods more sustainable is going to be a wonderful circus. I'm pretty excited about the possibilities, but I'll get to that in a minute. About this case I say: yes, it is obvious, but it is not a run race, because it remains customized.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u28	I would like to return to the debate for a moment. I am looking for what you are going to do to stimulate this sustainable heat. In fact, you are now making all the arguments to say: giving priority does not make sense, for the time being we should use the residual heat, because it would be a pity if it went into the air. I understand all that, but of course we want to make that switch to sustainable heat as soon as possible. How are you going to stimulate that? How are you going to ensure that this is not delayed and that this fossil heat does not stay on our grid too long?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u29	I think that Mrs Vos is almost failing to deal with this major problem of energy transition by referring to this interim amendment to the Heat Act. We have the national climate agreement in mind for this. We hope, preferably this calendar year, to conclude an agreement in which we see this sustainability in all these areas at the same time. I've already confessed: I'm on a ton hunt, they all need to get there. All these tables are being delivered quite a bit at the moment. During the summer all this has to be calculated, but that is a much larger exercise. This is really a cog in that machine. We are going to have a much longer debate on this greater exercise than we are now. We're working on that cog right now. Let me say something about how this could be done in the built environment. There are some concerns about that and some questions have been asked about it, so let me talk about it. Mr Van Dijk, Mrs Fiers, Mrs Vos, Mrs Meijer and Mr Koffeman, among others, have asked questions about this. They've all been wondering, how are you gonna do that? The first answer to that question is faint and I am not going to stop there either, but that is, of course, what we are going to see in the climate agreement. But you think that's too faint, and so do I, so we don't. In the built environment, the transition will have to prove itself in its difficulty, but also ingenuity and beauty. It's about individuals, people who live in a rental house or a merchant house and suddenly have to do something. I've been asked a lot of questions about how you're getting support. Then I always say we... look, acceptance in this case isn't about enthusiasm, I guess. Perhaps the supporters of Mrs Vos still have some enthusiasm. I also think that Mr Koffeman's supporters are capable and indeed the supporters of some others. We get 10% of the Netherlands excited about that. The transition is almost part of a utility movement. Not everyone's excited about that. When you ask people how they think about the fact that 98% of the Netherlands is connected to the sewers, there is no great enthusiasm about this at first. When we ask how people feel about legal certainty, you don't get great enthusiasm. It's something that a government, the collective should settle with private parties. There's only two things in there. The first is just clarity about what people are expected to do when something is expected of them. My mom called me and said, "Yeah, well, I've heard enough, so what am I supposed to do? I said, "Mom, I'm not gonna do anything right now, but I will, but you're gonna be told that." The first thing that needs to be done is to say something about it later. We have a plan for that. The second is affordability. All idealism on a stick, I give it all to you. But if this isn't gonna be an operation that's affordable for everyone, then it's not gonna work. Not, zero, nothing. Those are my two big stick horses. I'll fill this whole room with that. The driving force behind the transition is the heat plans. That goes at city level. The municipalities are going to do that. That's what they promised. They're gonna make the heat plan per neighborhood. There's an order in neighborhoods, there's an approach in those neighborhoods. In one district a heat grid fits, but in others it fits completely different solutions, sometimes individual solutions via electrification. In many ways we have the right to warmth, in an affordable way. Those municipalities will have to make it clear to a certain district that between that year and that year, that this means for people that they need to be connected to this pipe somewhere in that period, that that generally means in the installations of the house this and this and this, that someone else is coming by to explain it to them and that someone is coming by to arrange that connection. People need to experience this in a manner of speaking as well as the connection to the gas network: then and then there comes a gentleman, which comes out in a tap in your meter cabinet. That's all different now, but we have to bring people into it too. It is extremely important that not only the costs are the lowest we can think of, but also that they are financially viable. We Dutch are masters of cost-cutting, if we see this as part of infrastructure. None of you have ever been billed for the sewer. You've never been charged for the power grid or the gas grid. We're all gonna flatten it with simple constructions. This can be done with financing structures or with a form of set-off through fixed straight constructions. All kinds of forms are conceivable for that. Under the climate agreement, a funding task force is working on this. It has the task of making this accessible to everyone. I think that people in a social housing unit will be the first to get involved and have the least of this. I always think the opposite, namely that the private owner will have to hiccup three times and that the tenant will hiccup once. I think so. That's where we're, I think, achieving a higher speed. We have professionals there who can do this for a larger property. That is the way to do it: financially, affordable and with a clear perspective. I can then explain to my mother: then and then, somewhere in those years, your resume can leave the door; then you're going to connect it and so on and this is the way you can finance it. In that, the Heat Act is a cog. It's one of the rules. For some people it is useful and not for others, because not everyone gets a heat grid. That's how it is. This includes all kinds of possible support structures. Mrs Vos mentions the shift in energy taxation from electricity to gas. Moreover, she says immediately that it should not lead to people not being able to pay more off the gas immediately. It's complicated. Let me say that she finds the cabinet on her side in the sense that measuring is very important. If we are going to do this by neighbourhood, I do not know whether you should drive the whole of the Netherlands away by the same levy and seduce it to the other until there is a chance of action. I haven't seen any proposals from the different tables. We haven't thought about that either. I don't have an opinion on it either, but we have to ask ourselves exactly these things. Exactly this kind of thing. It's important to measure. There are also some passages about this in the coalition agreement. We're gonna have to shape the how. It'll have to be through the municipalities. Mrs. Vos also has concerns about the new building. There are new construction projects that could still be saved and there are those that could no longer be saved. When they can't be saved, there comes a neighborhood like all others, but often with a small gap because they are often better isolated. New build homes that are last connected to the gas are considerably better insulated than previous homes and thus offer better opportunities. The chair of the table has designed a reverberation scheme for this. Let's see how we can get as far as we can. In the direction of Mr Koffeman, I say that there is no way we can imagine that the state real estate will be treated differently. Of course, that has to be part of it. In the direction of Mrs Vos van GroenLinks, I would like to say that I do not want to think at all about whether we should do anything about the landlord levy if I have seen what the tables have produced. Mr. Chairman. Several questions have also been asked about the organisation. The question of socialisation comes from Mrs Klip. But thank you, because that is an important question. I think she sees the next issue. You start somewhere with a heat grid. Not everyone can be connected to that yet. So you have all the costs at first, but not all the revenue. In fact, if you pass on all the costs to the customers at that time, you'll scare everyone away and never get there. How are we gonna do this? That's an important question. Socialisation is not generally the solution. Socialisation can only be achieved within a network. If Mrs. Klip has a net and so do I, and I'm a little lazy, I'm gonna find a very expensive solution if we're gonna socialize. Mrs. Klip will pay for that in her net. She can't help it. I socialize all that and push it over the hedge. Perhaps that is what Mrs Klip's party sometimes has against socializing. So socializing can only be done within a net. That's not the answer, because the problem is inside that net. I have another suggestion for that. We have to see that we are not shifting it over the edges of the net, so to others, but over time. Running-in costs are not a new phenomenon. The entire Dutch industry has once had to deal with start-up costs. Every company, every company and every investment has start-up costs. We need to spread it out. This requires a financing structure and a smooth connection. This can be exactly the basis for the heat plans of the municipalities. We don't take ten years to fill a heat grid, but the whole neighborhood goes around in one go and you immediately have mass. In my view, these are more the solutions that are at issue. The moment you show the light to the Heat Act 2.0, you must have thought better about that. You need to be able to outline how this is going. That is what we will have to do with the sustainability of the built environment, because we all have to start at some point. Her question is also what we do: audience, private or both. Should we distinguish between the main transport and a local network? You can also ask if a cut should be made between delivery and distribution. Purely technical, I am not talking about politics, and all the sentiments that exist about it are not the ownership of economic order, I think, of any importance. It is precisely here that we choose to regulate a monopolist, whether it be the government or a private party. Precisely because we opt for regulation, it can be a government party, but it can also be a private party. I don't think that's the jumping point. The important point is that we must regulate it in such a way that parties are forced to behave as a fair party to the consumer, because that consumer has no choice. In the electricity grids we have also opted for a split between supply and distribution. That's less obvious here. It's really more complicated than that. Heat isn't electricity. As I just said, it makes a big difference to which place heat is fed and at what temperature. The interaction between the network and the delivery is thus much greater. That's why it might be very awkward to split this up. In fact, a supplier of low temperature heat could cause serious problems for others with the supply he is entitled to. It may then be that the houses of these senators are no longer kept warm, because we have been so light about an open model. That is something that needs to be considered. This is less obvious than electricity. That is what I am saying in the direction of Mr Pijlman. The questions about open and closed nets are really important in the context of the Heat Act 2.0. We will have to deal with this kind of problem. That is also a bit the portee of Mrs Klip's question. It may well be that we are reaching different types of network: networks with open access and networks where this is not possible. That could be the outcome, but it is not yet there and it may not be. I am here to philosophize freely, because I know that you are not taking advantage of it in any way. Then I come to consumer protection. I was a little concerned by Mr Koffeman's statement that the consumer is only making a difference. I don't believe that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u30	Back to the tip of the open and closed nets. You said you're philosophizing a little bit and that this might be an outcome. At the same time, the Heat Act 2.0 should be there in 2019. This is essential legislation in the context of the energy transition. What does that choice depend on? How do you come to further opinion-forming if you say at this moment, a year earlier, that I am philosophizing a little? Because I don't think you're philosophizing. I think you have a vision on this, and I hope you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u31	Yeah, but the vision isn't quite ready to ship yet. It is being considered very carefully at the moment. I think it would be better if we agreed that Mr Pijlman and I should have this discussion when it is before us. The consultation moment is not a very logical moment. Let us have the discussion at the moment when it is before us, and let us then unravel the course of thought behind it. Of course, an entire team is working on it. Ordering is a hobby of mine, so I'd like to get involved in that, but they're really unfinished ideas here. It is being worked hard, but I would also like to share ideas here, because that does make the debate nicer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u32	Thank you. But I assume you also have a vision. What would you like to see? I can imagine, given your background and whatever the cabinet intends, that you want to move towards a differentiated system where open networks are also the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u33	Let me rephrase. Of course, a differentiated system is never anyone's ideal. Such a system could come out. What I want is for there to be as much room as possible for innovation, private initiative and mutual competition, so that consumers can choose and also project developers can choose between different suppliers of heat, and so that we can organise choices and market tension in a variety of ways that will bring innovation. I know one thing: the cost of this has yet to be dramatically reduced. I prefer to have a completely open system, but I have just been standing here arguing that there may also be major disadvantages, so maybe we will get to a mixed system. But if you ask me about my childhood dreams, I'll never say a mixed system. It might come out, but then we agree because a higher ideal than it seems is not possible. And perhaps Mr Pijlman and I share that ideal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u34	I would like to ask a question along these lines. Your dreams, I think, are interesting. In any case, I can understand the fact that it has not all been crystallized and that you, for example, do not want to get in the way of Mr Samsom's table and want to make sure that he can come up with his ideas. However, apart from questions about open networks, competition and choice, I would like to ask: what scope of choice do you seek for consumers? Competition, of course, only works if it also offers freedom of choice to consumers. However, if you look at it very simply, you can imagine that it's very clumsy in a neighborhood when half of it isn't there and says: nice that you're going to build a heat grid, but we'd rather have something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u35	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u36	So how do you view that, in relation to the discussion we are having now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u37	Well, it's actually about building the infrastructure. The choice is, of course, inherently limited to the moment of a collective choice. After that, you're stuck with it and we're dealing with a monopolist. So, of course, the options are limited. However, it is important that at the time of selection, at least a choice can be made between different options, even if only by a municipality, in order to be able to choose the option with the lowest cost. In some cases it will have to be the municipality that chooses on behalf of people, but then we still benefit from different techniques, different providers. And it could be that in some cases we will eventually be able to choose between different heat providers on a given grid. Those would all be great opportunities. But again, it's working out. But the more choices, the more opportunities to get it cheaper, the more innovation and the more consumers have it in their own hands. But, of course, there are limitations to it, because it is about infrastructure. Then there is Mr Koffeman's concern. Yes, there has been an extensive inventory of what needed to be improved with the 2014 law. There has been an important battle in this. We have the maximum price for the delivery set, we have maximum prices for connecting and closing, and more logic has been put in the cost fixing and cost calculation by ACM; I will come back to that in a little bit. Those are improvements, but it's not the improvements that make me dare call this a Heat Act 2.0. Mr Koffeman is right about that. Mr Koffeman also has a question about the lex specialise. He says it sounds crazy because you get protection, except in some cases. For example, you can't cancel the agreement. He asks: what good is that for, because you might want to cancel the agreement? Well, it's also possible to cancel the agreement, but there are cases where it's complicated. Let me give you an example with flats and climbing lines. Let me put it a bit technically: there are cases where the heat supply is switched in series. So if someone on the third floor doesn't want heat in the middle of it, all the people up there and underneath it don't have heat, because they're all on the same lead. That is, of course, difficult and then it is not possible. There have also been cases where ten households together decided on a heat grid, after which a significant number ran away. Then there was the rest of them with the costs. Yeah, well, at some point you can also say that it's a matter of getting out together at home. There are cases where you say: ho, ho, ho, ho, ho, freedom of choice is great, but here it is for technical reasons or for operational reasons almost or at all not reasonable anymore. Mr Koffeman also has a question about the financial malfunction compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u38	It's perfectly understandable that there are situations as outlined in that apartment. You can't leave the whole apartment in the cold because you have different views. But it is also important to see whether citizens can keep freedom to do, for example, decentralised generation. They should not then be saddled with, for example, residual heat from fossil industry which they themselves do not appreciate. So I understand that this does not apply to the situation outlined by the Minister, but in other situations it may well be that this Heat Act is going to cause this decentralised generation to get in the way because it can never compete with those suppliers of residual heat, perhaps not in the technical sense and not in the financial sense. So it's hard to give consumers that freedom when this law can technically make that impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u39	I do not know whether it should be done on a detour, but I am now trying to create the situation that Mr Koffeman and I are pursuing the same ideal, namely freedom of choice for consumers. That would be such a moving moment, so I'm gonna try that now. Look, if it is technically impossible, I think Mr Koffemans will agree with me that it is technically impossible. Where it is technically possible and it is not covered by the two examples, there should be freedom of choice. It's always great when people choose their own path or come up with something smarter. It is not generally said that you should not cancel it, but it is an exception for special cases. So I want to celebrate the freedom of choice here again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u40	Can we then conclude that the cabinet is also striving to make the freedoms that the minister claims to represent also manifest in, for example, facilitating delivery?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u41	Facilitating delivery?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u42	Yeah, like, for example, self-generated electricity, where you might generate more than you need. In the past, this has been stimulated by being able to pass it on easily. It would therefore be interesting to know whether this is being stimulated in the case of heat and not frustrated as it is now likely to happen in the case of electricity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u43	In this interim repair of the heat grids, we were actually talking about Heat Act 2.0, and we are now in danger of talking about electricity. Let me put it this way: I did not see the problem of handing over in Mr Koffeman's question. Perhaps that could be even more specific in the second term. Mr Koffeman also asked a question about the financial malfunction compensation. He says: I do not see consumer compensation in the bill for a non-frequency malfunction that lasts less than 24 hours. There's a reason for that. Compensation has not been created to offset the consumer's primary disadvantage. It is primarily an incentive to make sure that this does not happen often. It is therefore an incentive to promote reliability. This is necessary in the case of electricity grids, because, strictly speaking, such a net has few income losses because it is not self-generating. In most cases, that's different here. There is already a negative incentive to avoid delivery. The incentive effect is therefore different and this is why this was chosen in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u44	Mr. Koffeman, let's run.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u45	The Council of State strongly disagreed with that view. My question was: why did the cabinet get the advice of the Council of State? The Council of State says that, apart from that incentive for suppliers, you should compensate the consumer for the inconvenience that it has. If you're in the cold for a while because your heat supplier doesn't deliver, there's definitely a reason to compensate that consumer, even in terms of consumer protection. You have deleted that, and you do not accept that in your reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u46	Yes, my answer was that it wasn't primarily meant for that purpose. Given the legislator's intention, it is appropriate to rely on an incentive that is already there, rather than putting a new incentive on top of it. If the aim had been to compensate consumers, it would have been otherwise and would have been a double payment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u47	It is not a question of adding a new incentive or compensation, but of maintaining an existing compensation. The Council of State is clear about that. My question to the Minister is once again why he took the advice of the Council of State on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u48	Because there is a different objective than consumer compensation. The objective is to have an incentive to maintain high security of supply. There is that incentive, even without this obligation. Mr Pijman has asked when the Decision on service charges will be amended. The Secretary of State is working on that. The decision is intended to enter into force at the same time as the article of the Heat Act related to it. The target date is 1 January 2019. Then there are questions raised by several speakers who are not covered by any of the previous issues. Mr Van Dijk put his question rather pointy, but he is talking about a concern that I am also concerned about. I would like to say a few words about that. It's about the cost of the energy transition. I have said from day one, but also just now, that the costs may be the most important factor in the acceptance of this exercise. When we come to the front door with high bills, everyone screams. Most people can agree with the goals, but not necessarily with measures that cost a lot of money. That's a fact, let me put it this way. However, there is a very large difference between macro and micro. Micro can really piss people off... I'm from those people... when it comes to the energy bill that gets higher as a result of the transition. That's what makes people angry. The aim is to let these people experience it as little as possible. Period. At the same time, we must bear this in mind. The Plan Bureau for the Environment estimates the cost of this additional ambition in the government agreement, rising to 2030, macro at about 2.5 to 4 billion. This rise alone is on average more in health care over a certain period of time. In a manner of speaking, people spend more on smoke products alone. A sixth of the economic growth of the previous calendar year is sufficient to pay the entire transition until 2030. So in the end, we can do this. It is now a matter of not confronting all those Dutch people who understand that we need to do something about the Paris agreement, but who are not eager to do so, with all kinds of high costs. Therefore, fanaticism must be fought for the most socially beneficial solutions. Otherwise everyone, except Mr Koffeman's and Mrs Vos' target groups, will drop out, and we do not want to see that happening. We have a responsibility to do this as cheap, as affordable and as clear as possible. Period. Mr Van Dijk and I agree on this. I think Mr Pijlman has responded to media reports in recent days. He's right to say that the gas story is two very different stories. That's right: those stories have almost nothing to do with each other. No, the Netherlands doesn't stop winning. The Netherlands will win gas for as long as necessary, but only where it can be safe. In Groningen, that can't be safe anymore. That's why we do that. That has nothing to do with the energy transition; it is a safety issue. We're gonna get gas where it's safe. In all kinds of places that can't be safe anymore and that's why we stop mining in Groningen. That extraction's going down real fast. From a point in 2022 there is not so much left of the gas extraction. So that's going really fast. But that's about the gas we produce. That is quite different from the fact that, in the period up to 2050, we are slowly going to stop consuming gas. That is a very different point. That's because we want to reduce CO. I would therefore like to thank Mr Pijlman for this distinction. With regard to Groningen, he further says that there was little benefit from the gas, but sour fruit. Those sour fruits, that's right. But of course we have to think about the thousands of jobs in Groningen. Our ideal must now be to remove the acidic fruits by removing the cause of tremors. The ambition must be to make this province the energy province of the Netherlands again, but based on hydrogen, wind energy and all kinds of other interactions with intensive industries that can use that hydrogen again. That must be the ideal. That's how we want it. I agree with him that hydrogen can have a prominent role in it, including in the north. We are going to see how this can be done in the climate agreement. A separate club has been set up to think even more specifically about it. But in all honesty, I am already flooded with very concrete proposals, also from the north, in the field of hydrogen. Then Mr Pijlman also made a comment on geothermal energy. We need to scale it up, because it's too slow. It is a hugely important source, for the built environment, but also for greenhouse horticulture. There is a whole plan for this, but we need to do more, and this also requires stronger government participation. It's actually a new form of mining, but for heat. Then there is Mrs Meijer's question on cost accounting. I don't think it's wet fingering. That's why we're failing the ACM. Of course, the ACM works on the basis of averages. In individual cases and for smart consumers it will certainly be possible to find things cheaper; therefore, they are averages. So there are just as many consumers against whom it is more expensive. But quite comprehensive calculations have been made of the cost of all these elements of the gas reference. That's the average of that. My impression is that this is being done very well and that Mrs Meijer's wet fingering label does not entirely deserve to be taken over by me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u49	Maybe I can explain it to you after all. Because the case is that I had skipped a piece of text, but that piece of text has been read by the Minister. That's why he says I used the word "wet fingering." Indeed, that was in the text, but the explanatory statement is as follows. It was about delivery sets, which seem to cost between €1,200 and €3,000. The person I spoke about said that there would be a charge of €2,800. I don't think that's an average. But then this man has been paying €15 in the month for six years, without any maintenance, control or occurrence in the event of a malfunction. Then I say: actually, these people have already paid for that thing, they continue to pay for it, but it hasn't really made it clear what these costs are all in. My appeal is therefore: now make clear what the costs are, then people are more willing to pay for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u50	I can now make things very complicated, because the average cost of a delivery set and the actual rent of the delivery set have nothing to do with each other. I don't want to make it any more complicated than it already is. But maybe Mrs. Meijer and I should talk about these delivery sets with a big glass of beer at the cafe sometime. It's gonna be a very complicated and very boring story. I don't think you want to know. I'll go into her other questions. Because she has also asked me if I agree with her that people in unhealthy homes should also have their turn for the transition. Yes, of course I do. In fact, I do not think we in the Netherlands want to have unhealthy houses. Let me translate it more freely: I think that people with lower rents on average live more often in corporate homes and that perhaps a higher speed can be achieved there in the first instance. So I actually think some of these people might get their turn sooner. I just talked about her $18,000. I do not think we are going to make this a great success if we are going to put people at the cost of €18,000. We're gonna have to do that in a proper way. Moreover, I doubt whether the funding task force will come up with district banks in the near future. I appreciate her desire for small scale, but I do not know whether this will lead to the greatest success in the financial sector. But we're gonna see it, let's see it together. I've heard Mrs. Fiers' story. I think that everyone in this Chamber has recognized the genuine social democracy in that. Despite the words of our President, we have all heard this clearly. But she is asking me a very liberal question, for which I am grateful. How do we get a level playing field? Well, let me get that straight. Yeah, we're gonna have to have that. Look, the calculations made by the real climate scientists also show that if we are to introduce, on our own for example on electricity or at our product prices, a cost that others do not have, it is not only end story for production in many sectors, but also a risk to employment, often with a negative climate effect. For example, if we had just been researched here by a certain levy, we would discourage gas plants from operating at a time when we are not yet fully sustainable, for which lignite plants are engaged abroad, then we would have a negative climate effect, the abandonment of production and a problem of employment. A level playing field is particularly important, but the writing I would recommend to Mrs Fiers is the coalition agreement. Because that is exactly what we want to do together with Europe or at least with a strong leading group, because we really want to do something for the climate, not just on paper, and because we want jobs and jobs for all those people. That's what we want. Thank you for the question on the level playing field: this is one of the cores of the coalition agreement, but Mrs Fiers and I have a common interest in this, in the form of that level playing field. Households' share of costs. Maybe she means the ODE, where the costs are now fifty-fifty divided. I've been studying what that cost-sharing should be. For that, we have research into the level playing field, because if you also send costs to companies, you have another playing field issue. That's her own point. But it also depends on what you finance with the SDE+. Not that it matters much technically, but it matters for the sense of justice. Then we'll have to see what it's like. That will not be with the ODE this year, because we do not yet have the climate agreement. So that's what we're gonna do when we know more about how we're gonna handle the energy transaction. Then we can say more about that. It is also nice that she brings up the point of employment. Look, the SER has said a few things about that. I found the Economic and Social Council to be rather melancholy, but let me give my own version. Look, the middle of the labour market has felt globalisation for years. The bottom of the labour market was often more localized and globalisation felt less, the top of the labour market saved itself, belonged to the most educated, and the middle of the labour market felt this in wage pressures, in the effort that had to be made to get to work. Now it is possible for the first time in decades that we see a huge perspective here for the middle of the labour market: at MBO levels there is a huge amount to do with the conversion of our entire energy system, the installation of solar panels and everything in and around the house, but also in the industries. This is a unique moment, now we have a view, right on work for that part of the labour market that has been under pressure. Yes, we have to take care of the transition and the training, but let us also say that what we have here is a luxury problem for the first time in years. I admit to Mrs Fiers that a luxury problem is also a problem. But let's work on it with curled-up corners of the mouth and make sure we take this opportunity. Because I refuse to speak of this as a threat. I refuse, because it's an opportunity we're going to take advantage of. Yeah, we're all gonna have to do things for that. A major national job plan from the government may not have to be, but this is what we should be getting at. I may have expressed some doubts about the climate Commissioner before. I don't know if that's the right thing to do. We have set up a whole climate agreement for it. That must also be secured. That's right. For example, in the energy agreement we had a whole committee on safeguards. Well, he's got a lot of shit going on, isn't he? I regularly get complaints about how strong the deposit was. On the one hand you think: the deposit is very strong, but on the other hand you like the fact that there is so secure. Those who have dealt with this have done a really good job. I have great respect for that. We need to see how we're gonna do that again here. When it comes to assessing the feasibility of climate legislation, I would like to appeal to two panels, gremia, institutions, in relation to the assessment of this feasibility. The first is the Council of State, but the second, honourable Members, is you. For the feasibility and legislative quality, I am always the first to look at the First Chamber. I have had the questions of Mr Koffeman and Mrs Vos, with the exception of the experimental space. Since that experimental space isn't here yet, I don't know what experiments it's going to be. The experimental space is there to deviate from the law as it is now, not to deviate from things that are not in the law. For example, a guarantee is not regulated in this law at all, so you cannot deviate from that by the experimental assessment. There is nothing against guarantees; anyone who wants to guarantee, he or she is invited. But we don't need the experimental assessment for that. Experimentation could be about other things, but we don't have so many examples of that, simply because we don't have the law yet. But we're in full expectation and we're gonna see what it gets. Mr President, that was my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u51	Thank you. Then we have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Peter van Dijk. Oh, he didn't register for the second term. I shall now give the floor to Mr Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. Like the MPs, you often spoke a little more widely than just the law before you. That is understandable, because at the moment there is an enormous amount of movement. Have I understood correctly from you that the Heat Act will be in more definitive form in 2019? There is a great need to be able to answer some of the issues you mentioned, such as cost-reflectiveness. You said that this is happening now, that you are investigating it and that you will have the data on it in November. I would ask you to inform us about this. I welcome your commitment that you also want to rely on differentiated rates in the Heat Act 2.0, so that we can also use local situations and local creativity, more than before. You replied to my question that on 1 January 2019 the Decision will cover service costs, which is important for the application, in particular to the Rent Committee. What you said about the possibilities regarding the distribution of the whole cost of the energy transition, I find extremely inspiring. This is indeed the social task we are facing, and we should not exaggerate it. You also said that the extraction of gas in Groningen has nothing to do with this subject. Agreed; it has to do with security issues. After 2022, the gas extraction will go down very quickly. The side effect of this is the loss of jobs. That's already happening. The region is committed, with you, to remaining the energy province. That's what the hydrogen project was designed for. In relation to this, I would point out that the roll-out of wind farms, also north of the Wadden Islands, is essential for this. This also applies to the landing of energy which can be converted into what we all want, namely a hydrogen economy. Mr. Chairman. There is one question that I do not think has yet been properly answered. It's about the geothermals. I pointed out that in Groningen a large project of geothermal energy was started to heat the northern urban areas and the Zernike Campus. Due to State surveillance of the Mines, this project has been shut down and stopped because of the earthquake risk. Well, that may have to do with it, I'm not sure, so I'm asking you about the location close to the extraction area of natural gas. It may also have to do with the subsurface and then it will occur in many more places. I believe that a major project has also been stopped in Switzerland. How viable is geothermal energy in our region? You just said warm words about it and it seems like a very nice technique, but it also turns out to have disadvantages. I'd like another comment on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u53	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. I give the floor to Mrs Klip.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. I thank the Minister for his answers. And no, the Minister said it was right: my group is not in favour of socialisation. But the concept turns up a lot. I would therefore like to make this clear to the Minister. He did. Then I come to the case of 'the residual heat around the corner', as the Minister called it. I understand that it's about customization, that a new building district is something other than an existing neighborhood and that there might also be other heat seekers around the corner. And producing residual heat is obviously not an end in itself. But the continued discharge of residual heat into the air or on surface water is CO-technically literally oledom. We all agree that the residual heat is still fossil and hopefully develops towards sustainable residual heat. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that we also need to handle this residual heat smartly. I agree with Mr Pijlman: it is good to hear that as a minister you see that Groningen could once again become the energy region of the Netherlands. Maybe you should say "stay," with all the Energy Coalition activities and the innovations that have an eye for that. I heard a story yesterday about a newly developed hydrogen tube. There's a lot going on in there. It is a good thing that the Minister has an eye for this and is possibly going to give it a little support from time to time. You have said a number of times that the law before us is actually a cog in the much larger picture. But I repeat what Mr Pijlman has to say: you too, in your enthusiasm for this policy area, could not stop talking and philosophizing about it. That means, on behalf of my group, I am very much looking forward to the debates we are going to have with you on the new Heat Act, the Electricity Act, the Gas Act, the Climate Act and so on. Finally, in line with what Mr Pijlman said, I have a call for an integral thinking. The spokesmen sitting here have all gained a more than green heart, even though we are of different political coloring. You say that doing nothing is not an option; the energy transition is a fact and we must make it the best possible. We now see that geothermal energy, including the ultra-deep, is not the ultimate solution everywhere. You and I now also know about Deltares' investigations, which show that the large numbers of wind farms at sea also have negative effects. Full speed is going on so with the energy transition, but let's say it's a horrible administrative word, integral and wide looking at the edge effects we don't aim for, but sometimes there are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Klip. I give the floor to Mrs Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The good news that we heard from the Minister is that we apparently made so much money last year that only a small part of it is needed to allow the whole transition to take place. That's fantastic news. Maybe he can make another link to the climate tables. Those people are begging for funding. How are we gonna do that and how are we gonna practically take people into this whole story? I am also very pleased that the Minister says that people will probably come first in social housing. That's wonderful, because they deserve a good, liveable and healthy home. Perhaps you can keep us regularly informed of the progress of the entire file. Finally, Mr President, I would like to come back to the district banks. That is not my desire for small scale, but the wish of the municipality of Utrecht to enable its residents to make the transition to sustainable, without suddenly having to put a large amount of money on the table. They borrow, and they pay it off with the money they save on energy. We are now facing a huge challenge, it is a huge challenge, and we will need all the helping hands, including those of the municipalities, such as Utrecht. I hope that the Minister will deal with these outstretched hands with both hands, otherwise we will not get there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u57	Thank you, Mrs Meijer. I give the floor to Mrs Fiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll go straight to the subject. Thank you to the Minister for replying. It is good that you are taking the liberal point out of the whole social-democratic story to respond immediately. What I liked was that you said there was a chance for jobs. I fully agree with you: let us see that as an opportunity. But this also requires, in the context of support, that we speed it up quickly. Maybe the Minister can say something about that. Then the mega job in the execution. I heard the Minister say: I am also of a practical nature, so let's take this up practically. There is an important role for municipalities. Local authorities have, of course, been decentralized in recent times. Can the Minister reflect a little more on that performance? If there is no climate commissioner then, I think it is important to look at it. Now my speech was long in the first term and it was about everything, but there was also a point about which I have not yet heard the Minister, and that is: the polluter pays, as a starting point. The question is whether he can reflect on that for a while. Finally, the climate panels. It is good to hear that the Minister always looks at the Council of State and the First Chamber in the first instance, but I thought that the WRR's report itself also advocates the way in which you are going to implement that legislation. Perhaps I could tempt the Minister to read that report again, to see if, within the framework of all that legislation that is going to come to people, you can do something with that doom. In the end, this also contributes to the support for legislation, and I heard the Minister argue in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u59	Thank you, Mrs Fiers. Great, Mrs. Fiers! I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u60	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions and for the enthusiasm he has put in trying to convince him of his good intentions. I am also convinced of this for an important part. I also believe that the Minister is of the opinion that we should jointly bring this operation to a good end. At the moment when there is no support in society, we are not going to bring it to a good end. It is very important that we create that support with each other. The minister also started with a rebuke of this Chamber: boys, you come up with all kinds of questions, but you have to see it this way, if you want more electric cars, that's a very separate chapter, we're talking about amending the Road Traffic Act. I drive one of those electric cars. I feel much more welcome in Utrecht than in other places, because you can park for free. You can indeed include provisions in the law or take measures, whether local or national, to encourage the choice of sustainable solutions by citizens. In Norway you can drive your electric car on the bus lane. That required an amendment to the Road Traffic Act, but that worked very well. In that sense, I would say that a minister who seeks such an integrated approach should also be open to rules of priority for renewable energy generation, sustainable heat and not too far apart. That would be too bureaucratic an approach, and I do not think that would be appropriate for this minister. For this reason and to support the Minister in his intentions, I would like to table this motion. The President shall: Mr Koffeman, Mr Teunissen, Mr Vos, Mr Meijer, Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Nagel, Mr Baay-Timmerman and Mr Ten Hoeve proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in almost all cases heat networks use energy sources which are not emission-free;]] [[Whereas heat networks should contribute to an energy-neutral society;]] [[calls on the government to make the expansion of heat grids conditional on priority being given to heat sources free from greenhouse gas emissions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34723-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u61	Let's talk about the role of the municipality. The Minister said that he wanted to place an important role in the municipality in the construction of heat networks, but the law does not really make it clear where that municipality can get influence. In fact, there is only talk of the negotiation between commercial monopolies and potential producers. Those are the two things that have been arranged and the role of the municipality is not explicitly regulated in my opinion. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to explain this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u62	I'll come back to the motion. Is it correct that you submit the same operative part as was submitted by Jetten and Dik-Faber in the Lower House?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u63	I must tell you quite frankly that I must remain guilty of the answer to that. I didn't see that motion. It could be very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u64	It's exactly the same operative part, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u65	It is often the case that there are good ideas in different places.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u66	And it was accepted there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u67	Let's hope that happens here. That would be a great support for the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u68	Through the chairman, Mr. Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u69	Mr President, I would like to say that it would be a great support if it were accepted here and there. I would love that, with you, I have the impression, but I can't say that. Then I come to another support in the Minister's back. The Minister said in a subtlety, but I see this as an important observation, that he also thinks that the National Buildings Service has an important task to do in removing gas from the Netherlands. That makes sense, too. The people sitting at home listening to this debate think: they are sitting in a large room with a high ceiling, what are you doing yourself? That's very important. I really think it has an exemplary effect on citizens who have to make a substantial investment, the size of which has not yet been fully crystallised. They also look at their drivers and want to know: what do you do? In this context, I shall table the next motion. The President shall: Mr Koffeman, Mr Teunissen, Mr Vos, Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Nagel, Mr Meijer and Mr Baay-Timmerman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that gas extraction in Groningen is being accelerated;]] [[noting that according to the government plans, the whole of the Netherlands will be free of natural gas;]] [[having regard to the exemplary role of the States General;]] [[noting that the previous renovation of the Binnenhof took place in 1992;]] [[Whereas decisive steps should be taken in the area of sustainability in the forthcoming renovation;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, after renovation, the Binnenhof will, if reasonably possible, be free from natural gas connections and the sources of the heat grids to which the Binnenhof is connected are sustainable and free from greenhouse gas emissions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34723-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u71	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. I give the floor to Mrs Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u72	Mr President, thank you very much to the Minister for his very pleasant reply. It's always nice to listen to you. You said it's a limited bill. That is also the whole effort, and at the same time we have talked about the fact that it is a time when we are more than otherwise aware of the enormous task. The point was that the Groningen issue is quite different from the energy transition. Of course we do, but we are now living in an era where we will have to use much less gas, because we will no longer be winning gas in Groningen and because we will have to stop using all fossil resources in the context of the energy transition. That is why my group is keen to see how this legislative proposal can seize all the opportunities for sustainability. The legislative proposal provides for a number of first steps: the reporting obligation and the growth of low CO2 sources. If the Minister says that this bill is not about sustainability, I cannot quite follow him. Then I would challenge him: seize your chance; do what is possible. Once again, I would like to mention that point of priority for sustainable heat, but I also ask him how we can ensure that we can switch from fossil-based residual heat or residual heat from ordinary waste incineration to truly sustainable heat as soon as possible. I would like to hear the Minister on that. Surely we cannot continue to use such sources for many years to come. Mr. Chairman. I would like to hear him say something about how he would like to strengthen the direction of the municipality. It may be outside the scope of this bill, but it is of course extremely important that they are able to examine the best heat options at local and regional level. He says first we need to see what the experimental space is going to be used for, and then he can only say something about it. Precisely municipalities, I think, need to experiment. Is that already possible with this bill in hand or should we wait for the Heat Act 2.0? Of course, it will come quite soon, in 2019. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Zal in ieder geval de mogelijkheid tot experimenteren ofwel nu ofwel straks voluit de ruimte krijgen?]] The Minister said about the financial consequences that affordability is, of course, crucial in everything we are about to do in the energy transition. I am extremely pleased with that. He's absolutely right about that. That is a very realistic view. He is positive and thinks that social housing and their tenants would like to be the first to take their turn. I would like to say to him once again, even though that goes beyond the scope of this law, that the corporations must be prepared to take the lead. I hope that they will do so and be able to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. I ask the Minister whether he has the opportunity to answer directly or whether he wishes to be suspended for a short time. I notice he wants to be suspended for five minutes. I'm suspending the meeting until 6:45.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u74	I will resume the debate on the heat bill, bill 34723. I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u75	Mr. Chairman. Never go into the building without a pass. Mr Pijlman asks about the dates of the Heat Act 2.0. No. The policy preparation is now. The legislative process, including the consultation and the Council of State, is in 2019. This means that the room treatment for 2020 is foreseen. There are questions about geothermals. Yes. This is about a specific project. In that project the SodM has intervened, but let's not let the head hang and say that in Groningen or in the Netherlands geothermal is not promising. We're mapping the subsurface now. EBN, the State participant, builds knowledge. We think that after that there is a significant potential for geothermal energy and I have no reason to believe that it would not be so in Groningen, but now the knowledge building of both the subsurface and the techniques is in full swing. I agree with Mrs Klip that we really need to handle the residual heat, as far as it is really residual heat and it is available. There's no reason not to use it. I also agree with her call to think integrally. That happens along all kinds of axes. We see that we have to do all kinds of optimizations over those tables. Mrs Meijer was very satisfied with her call for more funding. Well, I doubt it. I don't think we should try everything with subsidies. Sometimes it's necessary, but the economist thinks a grant is a last resort. First of all, I want the market to be able to solve it itself, and we have to make a lot of effort to make it work. I have no idea yet how the progress of the climate agreement is being reported. First of all, let's get the climate agreement going. I think that her Utrecht example is a fantastic example of cost-cutting in such a way that it is all feasible for consumers. Ms Fiers wanted to know how to proceed with the ESC opinion. Officially, I haven't even received it yet. That is also because I now have so much on my bike that I never have time. The president of the Economic and Social Committee never has time either. We never meet at the same time to receive that thing. That's sad, but I've got too much and apparently so have she. We're doing the best we can. In the meantime, I have secretly learned about the content. It will be involved in the climate agreement. In that context, it is taken into account. There will be no separate cabinet response, but it will be taken into account as a whole. I agree that we must do everything we can to reflect on the power of implementation, but how exactly do I have that in order in this debate? She asks whether I also think that the polluter should pay. Yes, I do, but of course there are times when that can be difficult. I can name two of them. The Netherlands is a signatory of international conventions, which means that we cannot pass on certain costs. It also happens that, at some point, we face a level-playingfield issue if we actually pass on all the costs, because foreign countries do not. Mrs Fiers will be particularly interested in this. That's the common hobby of Mrs. Fiers and me. We both wouldn't want that. Those are moments when it cannot be done, but strictly speaking, it is always a sensible starting point to confront everyone with the mess he has made himself and to make him pay the costs he has himself caused. That speaks for itself. Mr Koffeman thinks that the Heat Act is a bit thin. He thinks it's okay to change the Road Traffic Act to stimulate electric cars, but he's just mentioning an example where that hasn't been necessary. I would just say that it is a good example of Mr Koffeman that without the amendment of the Road Traffic Act you can do things in all kinds of other ways. Apparently he has been awarded free parking in Utrecht. We'd all like that anyway. He also states that the role of the municipalities is not in the Heat Act. That is also true, because municipalities have all kinds of roles in this, but they do not need any further explanation in the Heat Act because the Heat Act has a role to play in the monopoly position between buyer and supplier. Mrs Vos says that we cannot have fossil residual heat for years. That will not happen in many ways either, because we have an ETS and a climate agreement in the future. You have to suppress fossil CO emissions in all kinds of ways, but it remains that we do not necessarily have to do so with this law. It remains that, as long as there is residual heat that we would otherwise throw away, it can really be sensible to use it. I have been a little too vague about the experimental clause in the first period. That is what the Chamber has pointed out to me. This experimental assessment can be completed further, at AMvB. Then you can say more precisely which part of the law does not apply to a particular experiment. So that means that you can deliver customization for that experiment with precision. All kinds of things are possible, but it's about having experiments first and then creating space for them with the help of the AMvB, at least if they're good ideas. For bad ideas, we don't have to give room, but that's what everyone thinks. Then two motions have been tabled. The first motion calls on the government to make the extension of heat grids conditional on priority being given to heat sources, but this is quite different from the Jetten/Dik-Faber motion, which calls on the government to agree with the industry on the greening of heat grids, including in the context of the climate agreement. That's very different. The Jetten/Dik-Faber motion I have left enthusiastically judged Chamber, but I do not do that now, because making that dependent is really a completely different story. I have to discourage that motion in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u76	I admit immediately that it has become a bit of a grievance, but it would be nice for the Minister to read the motion carefully. It says: '... to make it dependent on the condition that heat sources free from greenhouse gas emissions are given priority'. So not to make dependent on heat sources, but to make dependent on the condition that they are given priority; no more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u77	How does something become dependent on a condition?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u78	If there are expansion plans for a heat grid, you can say: this can be provided that the sustainable variant is given priority. That dependency is meant to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u79	I'm not sure that's wise in all cases. We are in general in favour of sustainability, but whether this should always be linked to this condition, regardless of whether I understand the language completely, is not in this form the government's aim. I'll stick with the Jetten motion. I'm excited about that. I have to discourage this motion. In the six minutes suspension I have had contact with the Secretary of State at BZK about the renovation of the Binnenhof in which, I know, almost everyone in this room is better educated than I am. I do not have any other text, but I understand from the BZK colleague that the motion in this form should be discouraged. I have not come here to hear sufficiently comprehensively what that is about. In this respect, I must trust my colleague, also in the confidence that Members of Parliament know much more about this matter than I do. I haven't interfered with that so far. These were the motions and the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u80	It is strange that the Minister should advise against a motion which only asks: if it is reasonably possible. That means, in view of the information given to the Minister by his colleague, he says that it is not reasonably possible for the motion to ask for nothing more than that. So reasonably possible. Surely there is no reasonable-minded person who can resist this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u81	Oh, yes, I do. For example, I can imagine that the State Secretary of BZK might suspect that this is not reasonably desirable for a very limited part of the Binnenhof, for some reason that I do not know. I'll leave that to him. I am giving this advice on behalf of the cabinet. Unfortunately, I have little more to offer in this debate, but I can imagine all kinds of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u82	I regret that the suspension lasted only six minutes, because you would actually like a little more explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u83	Yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u84	Minister, you were done answering your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-eerstekamer-11.u85	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I propose to vote next Tuesday on the bill and on the motions.
