ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-2.u1	We will begin today with Mr De Lange's questions on behalf of the VVD Group to the Minister for Medical Care about the message 'Punished doctor can often get back to work elsewhere in Europe'. I would like to point out to the speakers that they can set up the chair themselves. That's new. I call Mr De Lange.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr President. When you go to the doctor, psychiatrist or dentist in the Netherlands, you should be able to trust that you get the right care. A Flemish psychiatrist who deals with relations with patients, makes incorrect diagnoses and prescribes medication in an irresponsible way should no longer work in the Netherlands. He has been removed from the BIG register, and that is only right, but he is still allowed to practice his profession right across the Dutch border, in Belgium. This example goes against the whole idea of a European alert system, with the aim of informing one another about failing healthcare providers from 2016. An article in this weekend's NRC Handelsblad is painfully shocked by the VVD that when a health care professional is reprimanded in a disciplinary case or is no longer allowed to practice his profession, he or she can continue to mess around across the border. Since January 2016, it is mandatory for countries within Europe to notify each other. The Netherlands has so far made 67 notifications. There is very good concern in our country. Surely it cannot be the case that there are ten countries from which there have never been reports of failing healthcare providers? That's just not right. That can't be true. It should never be the case that incompetent doctors should be allowed to treat our patients. People in the Netherlands should be able to count on good care. Mr. Chairman. I therefore have the following questions to the Minister for Medical Care. Do you share the view that it is worrying that the European warning system for wrong doctors is not working properly now? How do you explain that it is possible for healthcare professionals to get back to work with a ban elsewhere? How can you take away our care and that of Dutch people that there is now no definitive system to check whether foreign doctors have a professional ban? In what period will the Minister discuss this problem with his colleagues in the European Union? When will the ten countries, including Bulgaria, which is now the President of the European Union, but also Latvia and Luxembourg, exchange information in order to achieve a comprehensive European alert system? What sanctions are imposed when countries fail to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. I am glad that we have such a well-functioning BIG register in the Netherlands. As Mr De Lange pointed out, that is a good thing, because we can rely on it. You would prefer to have a similar BIG register in all countries, but other countries have different rules. These countries are engaged in their own way to register individual healthcare, but they do not all do so in our way. They're not all working on that at the same pace either. We have a nice national system, while other countries, for example, have more regionally oriented systems. To say that the warning mechanism is not working well enough, I am still a little too far, because we are in the process of building it up. It has been operating in Europe for two years now and is going to work better and better. Mr De Lange points the finger at the fact that a number of countries are not yet operating in accordance with the alert mechanism we have agreed on in Europe. Once again, I believe that there is not a great deal of unwillingness to do so, but that it is more of a question of different paces. The general word for sanctions such as suspension or removal is "limitation of competence." Limitations of competence are brought together in an international overview, the Internal Market Information System. You can look into that, just as well as you can look into the BIG-register; we can all look into the Dutch BIG-register. Loading the Internal Market Information System still requires a lot of manual work. I was told, for example, that there is one gentleman or lady working on it in Malta. That must open by hand any limitation of competence in the past few years there have been many thousands That's pretty real. If the question is how can that system not yet work properly, this is an example of an answer. It is, of course, important that we continue to work on it in the coming years. Partly because my predecessor Edith Schippers has drawn tremendously hard on the European warning mechanism, the Netherlands is trying to perfect it. I'd like to use that route as well. We are specifically discussing improving the alert mechanism next month with the European Commission, the guardian of the international system. I would like to raise this point. I would even prefer to contribute from the Netherlands to strengthen the system, so that those countries that do not yet use it will say in the coming period: now the Internal Market Information System, IMI, has become so important and practical to me that I can go along with it. Mr De Lange has asked whether there are sanctions if countries do not comply with the alert mechanism. Yes, there are. It is a rather complicated procedure, which ends with the European Court of Justice. So there is a sanction, but it takes a lot of time. I think that we should make better use of this time to try to get the ten countries that are not yet participating to join in the next few years as quickly and as practically as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-2.u5	Thank you for the clear answers. However, it cannot be the case that in the system where we trust in the Netherlands that we have good and skilled caregivers, the pace depends on the implementation in Malta, where someone is probably doing their stinking best every day. I am pleased that the Minister has indicated that, in this sense, it may also be necessary to consider how to help certain countries, but as far as the VVD is concerned, the upper line must be that we are moving towards a closing system. We've had two years before that. The Netherlands has rightly been a co-initiator of this. We have not done that for nothing, because we want to go to a situation in which people who provide this care in the Netherlands are also qualified in the right way and know what it is about and have not done things in other places that we do not want in Dutch care. Now that the Minister is in consultation with his European colleagues, my question is whether he can ensure that where there are still uncertainties about definitions about when to report, they are tightened so that there can be no misunderstanding. As long as the situation exists that we do not yet have a definitive warning system, we should at least not allow failing health care providers from countries that are not yet in order, or at least ensure that we build in additional controls so that these people, if there is an evil smell around them, cannot get to work in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-2.u6	If a doctor from a country that is not yet participating in the alert system or a doctor from a country that is participating in the warning system in Europe wants to work in the Netherlands, he must get some kind of vog, some kind of explanation about the behaviour. It's called the Certificate of Current Professional Status in international traffic. That is what the doctor always needs, so that we know that foreign doctors who want to work in the Netherlands always have such a vog, such a certificate. That's an important guarantee. This is not an occasional question, but a systematic one. If you cannot produce such a certificate, you cannot get to work in the Netherlands. This is an important guarantee for the Dutch quality of care. Then there is the question of clear definitions. We have reported to other countries in cases where there are limitations of competence. Mr De Lange has just indicated that 76 times this limit has been reported in the last two years. Other countries maintain other reporting guidelines. They not only report a suspension or a cancellation, but sometimes also a warning or a reprimand and come up with much larger numbers. I honestly do not mind at all, as long as you know about each other and as long as you know what measure it is. So on the subject of tightening up, to use Mr De Lange's words, I would be happy to discuss these definitions, but I do not think it is the most important thing. I think the most important thing is that we build in guarantees like such a certificate. That we have to move towards a closing system, I see that too, and I will actively work on it. If necessary, I'd also like to make a point with the next Health Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-2.u7	Mr Hijink of the SP has another question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-2.u8	I think people at home just want to be able to trust that when they're in the hospital, there's a doctor at their bed who's good. That confidence cannot always be there now because we do not know, for example, whether a doctor from Poland, Malta or countries that do not participate in this alert system, whether he has actually done well in the past. The question is therefore whether, as long as that system is not good enough, we must ensure that the Netherlands takes an extra test on all doctors coming from those countries, so that people are always sure that if there is a doctor at their bed who has not committed huge blunders in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-2.u9	Then perhaps I did not reply clearly enough just now. That guarantee is there, because that Certificate of Current Professional Status means that the doctor in the country of origin has not been restricted. We ask that systematically, as doctors in the Netherlands, they want their notes in the BIG register.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-2.u10	Thank you very much to the Minister for the answers given. He just finished with an almost open remark that he would like to raise this issue at the next Health Council if he wanted to. I think it would be wise for the Minister to do so, because I believe that this should not only be discussed with the Commission, but also with his colleagues, who can, of course, take the quickest steps towards a closing system. So if he's willing to give it another hard word, I'm happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-2.u11	I started my sentence with "if necessary" and "if necessary." Ten countries are not yet participating in this mechanism. I'd like to talk to those countries. I don't know if calling countries in a Health Council meeting is the best thing to do. If we have the best effect in bringing that forward in conversations, even in the coming months, I would like to go for that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-2.u12	Mrs Dijksma, second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-2.u13	The best effect, of course, we have to go for it. In general, however, I would like to raise the issue of the functioning of the system and also the addition that the Netherlands is prepared to help those countries which find this complex, and I believe that no one can oppose it. That could be very effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-2.u14	Mrs Dijksma says in the last sentence that the Netherlands must be prepared to help other countries. That is also exactly what I would like to do: to see if these other countries can use a practical method. And I'd be more than happy to repeat such a call to the Health Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-2.u15	I noticed that the Minister did use some euphemistic words to indicate where we are now, two years after that warning system was set up. "We have different paces." I believe that we have also noted that ten countries are not yet participating. "And we're still in the build-up phase." We automatically take over the warnings from other countries in the Netherlands. I would like to ask the Minister whether he would also propose that other countries adopt our approach so that we have a final system. My second question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-2.u16	No, no, one question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-2.u17	In this case, each country is concerned with its own way of working. So automatism is tricky. You can't impose that. You can make a deal. I think that's the art for the coming period. We must say to a country that is not yet using this mechanism: could you not do it in the same way as in the Netherlands; it works very well with us. If you're going to do it the same way, it might work very well in your country. That sounds a bit presumptuous, but that's not what I mean. But I do think that art of seduction should be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-2.u18	Second supplementary question, Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-2.u19	My second question concerns restrictions on jurisdiction. The Netherlands has information on the limitations on the competence of doctors from the country of origin, but I understand that we do not have information on restrictions on jurisdiction imposed on doctors in countries for this purpose. So if they first worked in Denmark, then in England, and then come to the Netherlands, we don't know anything about Denmark. Is that also a point that the Minister wishes to raise when he discusses this with the Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-2.u20	We know it sometimes and sometimes we don't. You give the example of Denmark and another country. Some countries do it in the same way as the Netherlands. Then we can see where that limitation of jurisdiction comes from. Not only can we see that from the last country, we can sometimes see that from other countries. Sometimes you can check on the basis of a CV in which countries a doctor has been even more active. So that can sometimes be verified, but it can't always be verified.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-16-tweedekamer-2.u21	Thank you.
