ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-14.u1	The next item is the VAA Enforcement/Working Conditions. A warm welcome to the Secretary of State. I give the floor to the applicant, Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-14.u2	Mr. Chairman. Before the summer, we met Secretary of State Van Ark and talked about the difficult conditions in which some people have to work. In our society, work in slaughterhouses is often regarded as one of the toughest professions in the world. I talked about the last moments of living beings. In the Netherlands, hundreds of millions of creatures, animals, are killed every year in an industrial way. It's 640 million a year. That's over 1,200 animals per minute. All these animals are killed by humans. Mr. Chairman. No animal wants to die. Imagine what it's like to have to kill 700 pigs an hour. Slaughterhouse employees themselves say: you can only do this job if you take something out in yourself. Let's, and especially the Secretary of State, get that to us. How does she feel about people taking out their empathy because the work isn't done otherwise? We know it's no good, not for the animals, but not for the people themselves. Foreign research shows that people who have to work in slaughterhouses have serious psychological problems. And if you have a chance to work somewhere else than in a slaughterhouse, you do. Mr. Chairman. Slaughterhouse work is incredibly heavy and low-paid rotten work. They are also often vulnerable people from Central or Eastern Europe, as we hear from the FNV. What happens in slaughterhouses with animals is well hidden. And what the work does to the people is just as well kept hidden. Does the Secretary of State consider that an industry that claims to have nothing to hide should be transparent? And is she willing to record how often those workers get psychological complaints and which part of them is foreign workers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-14.u3	Thank you very much. I call Mr Van Kent of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-14.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Partly because of the rapidly rising AOW age, fewer and fewer people are getting a healthy pension. That is why, together with the Labour Party, I have made ten proposals to improve people's working conditions. So far, the Secretary of State has not been prepared to do so. In the last debate we had on this subject, I proposed reducing night work, because night work has a serious impact on workers' health. The Secretary of State indicated earlier, in a written consultation we had on this matter, that work should only be done at night if it really has to be done. The SP Group considered that to be a very wise and good statement. In order to encourage the Secretary of State to take the next step and take action, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research shows that working at night offers an increased risk of diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, sleep disorders and possibly even breast cancer;]] [[whereas the government also believes that work should only be done at night when this is really necessary;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with employers and employees, to present proposals within six months leading to a reduction in night work,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kent and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25883-334]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-14.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the members of the committee for the good debate we had on working conditions and enforcement before the summer recess on 28 June. I met again with an involved committee. We had a good exchange of views there. On a number of topics from the AA, I would like to inform the Chamber shortly. Burn-outs and work stress are the subject of a separate debate. And the asbestos letters that I have promised you in general consultation for after the summer recess I can expect to offer you at the end of this month. Having said that, I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament who have asked questions or tabled a motion today. I will try to provide them with an answer and advice. Mr Van Raan pointed out the workload in slaughterhouses and specifically in pig slaughterhouses. He indicated that workers in slaughterhouses experienced a high workload. Indeed, workers in slaughterhouses may experience a higher workload than workers in other sectors. This also applies to more groups. In doing so, it is the employer's responsibility, according to the agreements we have made, to ensure good working conditions. We also had a general exchange of views on this subject. In my view, the industry is seriously working on this. They have created an arbocatalog, in which workload is an important subject. I also attach importance to the fact that sectors are themselves working on these issues, because they can also see in consultation what measures are appropriate. That means I don't see any reason for further investigation from the government right now. However, I support the industry with information on the work pressure work portal. For the supervision by the Inspection SZW, this is risk-oriented. During the period 2017-2018, the inspection received two reports on the temperature in slaughterhouses, but none on the working pressure. As we have discussed before, the inspection always starts with reports from the trade union or the works council. So I recognise the concerns expressed by Mr Van Raan, especially if they have also been expressed by employers, but at the same time I see in the broad balancing framework, in which we have to set priorities, no reason at this time to intervene further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-14.u6	Thanks for the answer. It's a good thing we're looking at work pressure. This is, of course, specifically about psychological stress or traumatic stress. It is a pity that the Secretary of State is not aware of this. It is known from American investigations that it is indeed on the agenda. It's too bad she doesn't want to register it. I'm sure we'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-14.u7	Mr. Chairman. I would like to point out that we have given an important priority to the psychosocial workload, which indeed includes stress at work. I would also like to say that the inspection takes signals, including from the media and other sources, into risk selection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-14.u8	This leads to a brief response from Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-14.u9	I am very pleased that the Secretary of State mentions this: psychosocial complaints. That is indeed the category indicated, but this really is another category, which has also been named in the manual, namely psychological stress. That's really something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-14.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-14.u11	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Kent and Mr Gijs van Dijk jointly tabled the motion in respect of item No. 334 submitted on night work. I can respond to that. Night work can indeed lead to negative health effects. That's also apparent from research. Mr Van Kent mentioned a number of diseases which could then occur. That is why I share the efforts of the proposers to bring this issue to the attention of employers and employees, but their responsibility for entering into the debate on risks and preventive measures is also theirs. I just said it. I facilitate this in different ways, but I do choose a different route than the proposers. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-14.u12	The motion in part No. 334 is not recommended. Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-14.u13	Working at night is clearly harmful to health. Therefore, I do not think it is crazy at all when politics sets limits to working at night. For example, politics has also set limits on working with toxic substances or with other substances that are dangerous to health.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-14.u14	It is important, however, to keep this issue high on the agenda. For example, I facilitate this by using the knowledge given by RIVM for information, by continuing research with RIVM and TNO and by facilitating the Knowledge Platform night work, which includes various partners. And I will continue to do so in the years to come. In addition, the social partners have the opportunity to agree on whether or not to do night work. As far as I am concerned, that is the right way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-14.u15	I regret to say that the Secretary of State says, on the one hand, that work must only be done at night if there is no other way, but, on the other hand, she says that she is going to work on prevention and information and that sort of thing, but is not going to lay down any rules for that. That's disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-13-tweedekamer-14.u16	This brings us to the end of this VAO. I thank the Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber.
