ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u1	The next item is the budget for Justice and Security, Section 35000-VI. I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice, the Minister for Legal Protection and the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u2	We have 22 speakers. Just so you know. I give the floor to Mr Fritsma on behalf of the PVV Group as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u3	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Once again, it is time to take stock of immigration and asylum. And unfortunately that only brings bad news, a lot of bad news. This cabinet has once again broken the immigration record. The Central Bureau of Statistics estimated that some 235.000 migrants have been admitted to the Netherlands in the past year. That's never been shown before. Never before have our borders been as wide open as under the Rutte III cabinet. And that, of course, gives us a chance to think. At the same time, this cabinet is unable to get out of our country again. Less than half of the people who are not allowed to be here or who are no longer allowed to be here, can be traced back to the Netherlands. Dramatic. Illegals and nuisances also have free play in our society. They can do whatever they want. Not even when illegals crack dozens of buildings for years, what the squatters gang of We Are Here does. In short, it can't be any worse. It just can't get any worse. This cabinet doesn't solve any problems. The only thing the Secretary of State does is constantly hide behind the European Union. Because, yes, the EU has now drawn on the whole foreign policy and then the Secretary of State has nothing but to say that he will try to discuss everything at EU level. But I can't. Nothing is happening and the EU does not want any restrictions on immigration. As a result, there is a powerless cabinet and a powerless Secretary of State for Justice, too cowardly to take matters into his own hands, too cowardly to fight for the Dutch interest. Mr. Chairman. And as if this Brussels intervention in foreign policy is not bad enough, the cabinet also wants to give the United Nations a major role in this. The cabinet supports this terrible Marrakech migration pact. That is in the Dutch interest, the Prime Minister even said. And with that, the cabinet shows its true nature. In doing so, the cabinet shows that it wants even more mass immigration. After all, more migration is at the heart of the whole Marrakesh agreement. This highlights all types of migration, ranging from labour migration to partner and family migration. What has the Cabinet got to endorse this? More immigration is the last thing our country needs, isn't it? There is much more in that terrible UN agreement. In this way, migrants must be given more rights. It points to access to health care and access to social services. But we also read that migrants should not be detained often. So let illegals get back on track. And that's what the Cabinet signs for if it continues. Furthermore, the international political correctness in that UN text is no longer to be kept up to date. For example, immigration is called an enrichment of society and there should be no negative perception of migration or migrants. No negative perception. All that can be said about migration is positive. How do you make it up? How do you make it up? GroenLinks' election programme is not yet a part of this. The PVV therefore urges the cabinet to turn its back on this disaster agreement. Follow the good example of sensible countries such as the US, Australia and Hungary, which have already done so. Today it became known that Israel does not want to sign either. Israel has indicated that it wants to protect its borders from illegal intruders. I wish the cabinet would come up with those kind of texts. Mr. Chairman. All these countries have already pointed out the real dangers of this agreement. And if the cabinet does not distance itself from this pact, you will see that the entire foreign industry comes up with it at every trial, because that strange UN vision of immigration is therefore the vision of the cabinet. It will be repeatedly pointed out that the cabinet has supported these 34 objectives by increasing migration and the rights of migrants. It will also be pointed out in every case that the cabinet has undertaken to take into account "the vulnerability of migrants." That is also stated in the text. And you can go anywhere with that. Stranger lawyers will invent countless forms of vulnerability for their clients. And guess three times what Dutch judges will think of that, in a country where recently even a rapist has been cut off with a much too low sentence, because otherwise he might be expelled. Don't start. Mr. Chairman. When we look specifically at asylum migration, we see a chaos that the cabinet no longer has any control over. Anyone from all over the world can and does apply for asylum here. The Secretary of State hands out residence permits to asylum seekers who do not deserve it: they have almost all come to the Netherlands through other safe countries. So the moment they knock here, they're not real refugees anymore. How long does the Secretary of State intend to continue to grant asylum permits to people who simply do not need protection here, and who are actually cheating on the cunt by telling the IND that they have no idea of their travel route and of the countries they have passed, because otherwise they will have to go back to those countries? I'd like a response. The Secretary of State also has no response whatsoever to the misconduct of criminal asylum seekers. In places like Ter Apel, Kampen and Weert, the raids, the burglaries and the violence are no longer visible. The Telegraaf recently reported that about 4,000 asylum seekers have recently been suspected of committing some 5,000 crimes. And for a long time, we've heard from the Secretary of State, and also from the Prime Minister, that this scum will be dealt with, but it won't happen. The parade of the VVD, the so-called "aso-azc," is also a joke. The cabinet itself states that most foreigners who are housed there simply disappear into illegality: 80 out of 100. What's in it for you? The Secretary of State has also indicated that part of those asylum seekers in the Aso Centre will simply receive a residence permit. You can check: then you cause enormous nuisance in Dutch society and therefore you have to go to such an aso-azc, and then you can just get a residence permit. Then you go from aso-azc to social housing. It really shouldn't get weirder. Thank you, VVD, for this expensive fiasco. Mr. Chairman. Of course, these scum must be taken off the streets as soon as possible, picked up and deported. I would ask the Secretary of State to make this happen for once, because the attack on security that we are now seeing on a daily basis can no longer be tolerated. Even bus drivers driving at asylum seekers' centres are desperate. They have to watch asylum seekers rush into the bus without paying, and chasing and threatening drivers and fellow passengers. The Secretary of State stands by and looks at it, and nothing changes at all. The numbers prove that, too. For example, in the first six months of this year only 30 residence permits were refused or withdrawn on grounds of public policy. Thirty! It's a dramatic low score. And that is no wonder, because even if an asylum seeker has been in prison for five months, for example, that does not affect his procedure for staying. Criminal asylum seekers are not dealt with in the Netherlands, but simply receive a residence permit. It's a disgrace. If you don't even have the willingness or the ability to filter heavy criminals out of the influx of strangers, then your foreign policy is nothing at all. Five months in prison and then still have the right to a residence permit, an asylum permit: it is dramatic and it symbolises the weak policy of this cabinet. Meanwhile, asylum seekers continue to sue at taxpayers' expense and stack one application for residence on another. Then, of course, the system gets stuck and asylum seekers get money because the IND decides too late on their application. Strangers attorneys make this a lottery: free shooting with applications for residence; it is of course a price with one that goes over the limit. And pay the Secretary of State. All in all, you must of course conclude that it is untenable to take anyone who can say the word "asylum" here. The PVV is therefore calling for a complete asylum stop. Stop the asylum shelter, stop the asylum procedure, which is being abused massively, stop importing violence and misery, stop the disruption and Islamization of Dutch society. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a word about the children's pardon. Actions to broaden this pardon scheme will cease, but will not cease, as we see with every pardon scheme in recent years. If you look at the figures provided by the cabinet itself on that pardon scheme, you will see the terrible effect of that scheme. Of the 2,830 people who were rejected under that scheme, only 230 were found to have left the Netherlands. So that's 8%. Thus, by far the majority of asylum seekers' families who have not been eligible for this scheme in recent years have been stuck here. Such a pardon scheme always keeps the hope of a residence permit alive, especially as a large part of politics but continues to complain about the extension of that regime. The result is clear. The result is that even more children without a right of residence are growing up in the Netherlands. The problem is only made worse. Soft healers make very stinking wounds. It is time for the Secretary of State to admit the dramatic effects of the pardon arrangements. Be honest about that, as I say to him, and make the logical conclusion that we should stop with this pardon scheme, because unfortunately that structural child pardon scheme still exists. Given the time, Mr President, I can leave it at that in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u4	Thank you, Mr. Fritsma. I now give the floor to Mrs Helder, also on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The neighborhood cop is the police drain. Those are the words of a police officer I spoke to on a work visit, and he might know. How different are these words than the minister's mantra that the district agent is in the capillaries of society. Another difference. Neighborhood agents want more room to solve the problems locally. Where a cop used to have one job, he sometimes has several these days. He is therefore an operational expert or assistant prosecutor and is also concerned with unnecessary administrative burdens, despite the Minister's promise to reduce them. This reduction has recently been promised with regard to detection, but not with regard to district agents. So my question to the Minister is: does this promise also apply to the basic teams? Conclusion: To date, The Hague reality is still miles away from the workplace. On paper there are all good intentions, but is the Minister really going to bridge this gap? Speaking of paper, it's nice that the Minister can find some extra money here and there, but often it's not structural money, so you can't take people for granted. In that context, I would like to ask the following question. Where is the Minister's longer-term vision? It is a fact that the demand for police capacity will not decrease. In fact, there are more and more extraordinary investigators, so-called boas, coming to close the gap. Does the Minister agree with me that the monopoly of violence belongs only to the police? And is the Minister aware that in the long term the police must be strengthened by as many as 5,000 FTEs in order to continue to carry out their duties? What is the Minister going to do to answer this? Mr. Chairman. Who wants to work with the police later? The Minister always talks about the appreciation of the agents. The Prime Minister would like to say on National Aid Day: hands off our people. That makes a lot of sense with police dog Bumper at a bite distance, but that's it. Why is community service still possible when a cop is being brutally treated? The fact is that last year police officers had to deal with aggression and violence more than 9,500 times. On the weekend of 20 October last, soccer hooligans attacked the police. They were kicked and beaten with belts and chains, and the police horses also had to pay for it. How can the Minister for Legal Protection, in response to my motion, say 'I do not see any reason at present to change the policy of sanctions'? Then I ask the question: when? Do you want a deadly victim to fall first? As far as my group is concerned, it is not unknown to you that there will be minimum penalties. Unfortunately, this is not yet settled at the moment, so I repeat: if a prison sentence is imposed, then the punishment for violence against aid workers must also be higher. Let me give you an example: the explosion of violence against an agent in Amersfoort in March of this year. She was almost strangled and the question is whether she will recover completely. Fortunately, the unsub was sentenced to prison, but the duration is only two years. Two years for attempted manslaughter. The maximum sentence for manslaughter is 15 years. An attempt leaves two thirds of that, so a maximum of ten years. When there is violence against an agent, the penalty requirement is increased by 33% to 100%, if we can believe the press judge, Mrs Van Rens. She also says that judges usually follow the sentence. A report we discussed at another debate last week shows that this is not true. The only solution to this is a legal lower limit, a minimum sentence. We've got it now, one day unfortunately, but it's possible. That one day my group simply thinks it is too low. So I ask both ministers to respond to this point. Mr. Chairman. The situation in Amersfoort, which I just mentioned, is also a bridge to the power surge weapon. The co-workers of the assaulted cop finally managed to dissuade her by threatening to use the power surge weapon they were carrying because of the pilot. In the meantime, we have the chief of police's advice, which is positive and states that the power surge weapon must also be made available within the primary police service. Unfortunately, the Minister's enthusiasm is a lot less, because he will first see if there is sufficient support for the authority, for the trade union movement and for society. Otherwise, I think the party's gonna go, I'm gonna see if I read the letter right, I'm gonna miss it. But there's no doubt that the power surge weapon has added value. Why the doubt? Support the agents in the front line. There is another point, which not only irritates many police officers, but also the vast majority of citizens: the closure of police stations. Police stations where cops can change before and after hours, where they can leave suspects and exchange information with colleagues and where citizens can report and report. Because not all crimes can be reported on the Internet. Or it could, but it'll be written otherwise. Of course, a support point is not a replacement for a fully-fledged police station. Now, prior to the start of their service, agents must first travel far to a police station in their district, do the briefing there, return to the support point if there is a car, and vice versa at the end of the working day, where they are still working for hours with red tape. Tough, time-consuming and frustrating. So I'm considering a motion on this point: re-opening police stations or at least stopping this austerity measure. Mr. Chairman. And there they are again, he's almost a good old man: the crime figures. According to the Minister, it has become demonstrably safer in the Netherlands in recent years, according to the steadily declining trend of registered crime. There is no surprise or news that recorded crime, or the number of reports, is falling. The willingness to report is still low, on average around 20%, and there is too little detective capacity. After years of whining, I was finally promised a report on the nature and extent of the recorded crime, after research by the WODC. Unfortunately, this report is still not available. The Safety Monitor is used to gain insight into the so-called dark number. But this is not enough, because many crimes are not included. So I repeat a question that I have asked before: why not a new measuring instrument or a good measuring instrument? Because measuring is knowing. The government's policy is based on this and the tax cents spent on it are also based on it. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the alien database. The fingerprints of foreign nationals contained in them may only be used by the police if there is a suspicion, so if there is a specific person in the picture. Especially in the case of theft and burglary, fingerprints can be of great value in the detection and resolution of crime, but a fingerprint does not always mean that you have a specific person in the picture. I mentioned theft and burglary for a reason, because these are two crimes that have been identified by successive ministers as top priority, because these are so-called high-impact crimes. So the question to the Minister, who, of course, also wants to see clarification rates increase, is: are you prepared to give the police back access to the alien database in the context of the search? Mr. Chairman. Finally, drugs and undermining, two issues that can no longer be seen separately. Criminals in the Netherlands produced 19 billion of ecstasy and amphetamines in 2017 for me around the top. In the meantime, large quantities of waste are burned down almost daily with a truck and already in a residential area. Wipes make about 16 billion and corruption between 5 and 10 billion. It has been able to take such a big flight because the chances of getting caught are extremely low and the penalty rate in the Netherlands is the lowest of all EU Member States. The broad approach should be a major issue for the government; therefore, another attempt at a different form of the undermining fund. A number of years ago, when the Netherlands was approached by France and later the United States on this issue, structural money was possible to deal with this problem rather than a one-off tip jar of 100 million. Mayors and all those involved deserve every help in their daily and not harmless work to combat this crime in all its facets. This cannot be done with a one-off amount; it must be structural money. If the Minister is in favour of a safer Netherlands, then I can't resist making it a top priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u6	I've waited until the end for my interruption. I heard Mrs Helder express her disgust at community service being imposed after violence against cops. I share that disgust with her, but I hoped to hear in her speech what Mrs Helder was going to propose in that respect. Maybe we can put something in this together. I myself proposed in this Chamber, but I think you were even in favour of adding violence against agents or attempts at violence against agents to the law that sees a public service ban. If we can find each other in that, we could, so to speak, table a motion in that area and see if we can get the Chamber back or, better still, get a commitment from the Minister. How do you view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u7	Mr President, I welcome this question, because I have tabled this motion before. The last time I submitted it together with a colleague from Mr Van Oosten, with Mr Rutte. We then held it in anticipation of the letter. The quote I just gave comes from that letter, so I intend to simply file the motion in consultation with you. A community service ban we have in the past done with Rutte I, indeed also with the VVD. A report has shown that judges do not comply. So, yes, what would the proposal be? To change the law. That's all you can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u8	Thank you, Mrs Helder. I now give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We move on to the subject of "terror" from the PVV. Only relatively recently, several decades ago, the Netherlands was a peaceful country with a clearly leading culture. Were we dealing with terror? Yeah, we had to deal with that in those days, too. For example, we call the Red Youth, the RaRa, the Animal Liberation Front, in the background the Seeing Bintje but sometimes also in the foreground, but we also had hijacking actions in the 1970s. We had the RAF, the ETA and the IRA. If we were already dealing with violence, it would generally come from left-wing or secession movements from other countries that were engaged in targeted actions here. But in a short time, the Netherlands has turned from a peaceful society to a country with for years a terror threat level 4 on a scale of 5. That's serious. That's almost the highest as it turns out: 4 out of 5. Around the millennium change, we were faced with Islamic terror threats in the Netherlands. In any case from the left we also had the terrible murder of Pim Fortuyn. The Islamic terror threat was manifested, first in the roll-up of the Hofstad group and then in the massacre of Theo van Gogh. That we should fear more misery, according to the AIVD, the new is normal. A ridiculous thought if you ask the PVV. As if the population should learn to live with the certainty of occasional blood. It's like that empty place at the table is normal every day at dinner. As if that empty space is a result of an easily unavoidable fact of life; excusesez english. Well, the blood is cleaned up, no more whining, your child could've gotten sick. That is the despicable attitude I see in this cabinet and also in the report of the AIVD. That is also the cowardly attitude I see with the Prime Minister, who always pretends that this cabinet has no influence on the timing. Because that's how it's always brought: it's the time that does everything. It's like it's all coming from outside. Like there's nothing to do about it. The cabinet has almost the only real influence in the Netherlands on the time frame. But they're not taking any action or the wrong action. It is for a large part of the population, except for the road viewers, to become pissed off. When will the Minister leave this despicable way of thinking, and of course the cabinet, and ensure that the Dutch will be protected by the government again? When can we go to a concert or festival without fear? The government has the monopoly of violence in exchange for protection. Then make that happen. Or does the Minister really think it's normal that you should always be vigilant on hate beards or their possibly more decently dressed jihad friends? Does the Minister have any idea how polarizing the cabinet is actually doing by facilitating the setting up of people against each other? At least as ludicrous is the focus placed on extreme right-wing threats and the designation of Islam criticism as far-right. I would like to ask the Minister a question about this, because we will soon be discussing it in this committee. The question is: is criticism of Islam, expressed by someone with left-wing views, who is a member of a left-wing party, a real progression, so who also votes left-wing, far right-right, yes or no? Of course, I'd like to support that. Reports from the security services show that the substantial threat of terror we are experiencing in our country is generally Islamic. That is logical, because we know that Islam is an ideology that openly aims to subjugate all peoples on earth. In them they are unique and in them are also the sources from Islam clip-and-ready. Jihad is an Islamic doctrine. It's not just terror. No, it's a doctrine, the terror used is the tactics and the purpose is submission. That works, because with a gun pointed at the head, people generally behave a little more accommodating than the wishes of the gun carrier, especially if that gun has already proved its services before, of course. Think of all the attacks that have already taken place. The indulgence applies in particular to the leaders of our country and also to other Western democracies. Cowardice as a starting point for policy is that. It'll just be your government. Mr. Chairman. Maintaining open borders has facilitated at least seven jihadan attacks in the Schengen area, including here in our own The Hague and also in Amsterdam. In England, too, an asylum seeker struck. He killed his elderly guests, his hostess and lord. Jihadists come with the asylum flow and can buy weapons here. Open borders are madness, my colleague Fritsma has already said so, but the cabinet is simply going blind in the fight against terrorism on the failing cooperation between the services in the Schengen countries. In between: when can we expect the law to criminalise residence in certain areas? Mr. Chairman. In order to fight the jihad and make the Netherlands safe again, the government will have to tap completely out of another vessel. Not only must the Marrakesh Treaty already be argued by the shredder, as Mr Fritsma has just mentioned. It's gonna take more than that. To begin with, dare to see Islam for what it is. Brave to see what the purpose of Islam is. Stop looking away and realize that jihad is a doctrine that has a hidden purpose. A salafist or salafism is not just the problem. No, a salafist is a very common Muslim, but in haste. That's all it is. Let that get through to you. A jihadist is a Muslim who uses terror or other tactics to sow death, destruction and fear. Just as Qur'an 8, verse 12 is written: "Seek fear in the hearts of non-Muslims. Cut off their heads and their fingertips." It's literally there. It's a mission. It doesn't just say that. It has a purpose. I explained it, and now it's up to the Minister to want to understand. I'd like his reaction to this. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has recently allowed Syrians to enter Syria who are suspected of acts of terror. See the man at the bar. It was found there and perhaps he even committed attacks involving many victims. See also the Syrian Malek F. who stuck in The Hague on the necks of three random passers-by. Hopefully these Muslims will be severely punished. But what happens after that punishment, after serving it out? Because nine times out of ten, those judges are going to punish way too light again, of course. In any case, we demand that they cannot walk freely on Dutch soil for a second, but the cabinet has indicated that Syrians cannot be expelled because of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. And yes, then you have to choose between the safety of the Dutch and on the other hand such a strange treaty. As far as we are concerned, that choice is clear. We opt for the safety of the Dutch and the call to leave that alien ECHR. Mr. Chairman. I come to a conclusion with a number of measures that are needed, but which the cabinet refuses to take. I will continue to name them in the Chamber as long as I am allowed to be here to do so. I would like to respond to those points. Close the borders and stop immigration from Islamic countries. We continue to emphasise this measure. Jihadists with a double passport must be arrested and tried and then denaturalised and deported, just like criminals with a double passport. We are going to talk about administrative detention in the Chamber, because we have tabled an initiative law on this. We have also tabled an initiative law banning certain Islamic expressions. These are measures that are needed. Then there's one final comment. Yesterday we had a legislative consultation on social cohesion in the Netherlands and on integration. Then I heard the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment use the term "animation violence." He wants to do something with that, with opinion violence. I think we just have the rule of law and we have our law book. What is opinion violence according to this Minister? The word isn't on Google yet. If you Google it, you can't find it, or I've been typing really weird. It sounds ten times worse than what Ernst Hirsch Ballin has ever intended with his interdepartmental Working Group Cartoon problem, so I would like a response to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u10	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last year, also during the debate on the Justice and Security budget, I called these two ministers 'the ministers of inability and unwillingness'. Was I too harsh in judgment? Was I premature? No, I'm afraid not. I wish I'd been wrong. For example, Minister Grapperhaus is responsible for the fight against terrorism in the Netherlands and the threat picture is substantial. This means that the chance of an attack in the Netherlands is real. You'd say, Mr. Chairman, that in such a high threat, the responsible minister would pull everything out of the closet to keep the Netherlands safe. But what does this minister do? He appoints Pieter-Jaap Aalbersberg as of 1 February 2019. How do you make it up? 'Cause who's this Pieter-Jaap? How do we know him again? He was the chief of police of Amsterdam who, despite the legal ban on it, wanted to allow headscarves to the police. He was the man who wanted 50% of the police to be made up of non-Western immigrants. He was the man who paid Fatima Elatik €12,000 a month to realize that. He facilitates Islamization by organizing an even bigger and more expensive iphar meal each year. He was the chief of police who himself filed a complaint against Geert Wilders. Who filed the report? A sujet who himself had ties to a terrorist-suspecting mosque. He, is the man who believes that cartoons and insults of the so-called prophet are a motive for Islamic violence. And of course this man becomes the highest man in the body that the Netherlands must protect against Islamic terrorism. From Gaza to Pakistan, from Al-Qaeda to ISIS, they laughed at an accident.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u12	I am thinking about mentioning names of people who are not participating in the debate. That's always a little complicated because people can't defend themselves. I see Mr. Van Oosten wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u13	Mr President, that was exactly my point. I would have liked to ask Mr Markuszower if I could understand it as follows. He has read about an official, an employee who does everything in the service of the government, and he, Mr Markuszower, then goes on to address and answer one of the three gentlemen in trade-K. Does he want to ask questions about that or anything? I wouldn't want to put any obstacles in that. But let us make sure that we address the people who can actually give us an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u14	Yes. I am therefore going to put the following question to the Minister. Can Minister Grapperhaus explain to the Netherlands why he thinks that an islam hugger can fight Islamic terrorism? Does the Minister understand that with this appointment he is rolling out the red carpet for terrorists and that he is risking the lives of many innocent Dutch people? And the following must not remain unnamed. Doesn't the Minister understand that this appointment is a straight shot? The man who facilitated the legal jihad against Geert Wilders is now responsible for the safety of Geert Wilders. Don't be ashamed, I ask the Minister. Has the Minister also considered making Muhammad B., or that imam from Pakistan that I'm going to call later and call it to kill Geert Wilders, responsible for his safety? For, chairman, she, or that Aalbersberg, that official; it makes little difference of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u15	A point of order, Mr President. I take it that the PVV is making a comparison between a chief within our police force and a terrorist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u16	This point has been made clear. Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u17	Mr President, I would also like to object to the comparisons being made between people who call for violence and death and a police commissioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u18	Mr. Markuszower, would you mind taking that into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u19	I'll definitely do that from now on. I would like to present the following to the same minister. I just mentioned all that imam. It's the same imam who tried to hang that Pakistani Mrs. Asia Bibi, or pronounced a fatwa on her to hang her. But that imam also expressed a fatwa about my party leader, the group leader of the second party of the Netherlands, Geert Wilders. He ordered Muslims in a fatwa in the Netherlands to kill Geert Wilders in his home. Has the Minister made a request for legal aid to Pakistan? And is this man, has that imam in Pakistan been arrested already? And, if not, can the Minister go after that and give a state of affairs on Thursday, when the Minister responds? Mr. Chairman. Terror must be combated. And the Netherlands, the Netherlands and the Dutch culture must be protected. The Netherlands is built on Jewish-Christian and humanist values. That's our culture. Islam doesn't belong to that. It is precisely that culture that threatens, and sometimes even especially, Judaism in the Netherlands. That is why the Jews in the Netherlands deserve protection. At the moment, the Jewish community in the Netherlands still has to bear a large part of its own security costs. The PVV proposes that any banking transaction to and from an Islamic country should be taxed by an additional 0.1%. From these proceeds we can protect Dutch culture and the costs for a safe Jewish community can be financed. And what does the other minister do, Minister Dekker? He calls himself the Minister for Legal Protection, but he is mainly the minister of parties and parties. Feasts and parties of prisoners to understand. His prisons are as leaky as a basket. The prisoners easily smuggle in alcohol, cell phones and drugs. Sometimes they get caught, but they don't get a real punishment, so they can continue to smuggle quietly. Drinks and drugs, of course, come with a party. Under Secretary Dekker, it's all possible. The prisoners even put videos of those parties on the Internet. They have nothing to fear from Minister Sandertje Dekker. They challenge the minister via Facebook and Instagram. The minister stands by and looks at it. His sanction? That he doesn't like it. Under this minister it is a feast in prisons, a feast for the criminals, but a tragedy for the staff and, of course, a brutal blow to the face of the victims of these criminals. Thus we know the VVD: celebrations and parties with everyone, from the CDA to the Christian Union, from D66 to the PvdA, and now also celebrations for murderers and rapists. But I get it: of course all those VVD drivers who have been caught for corruption must also be considered. They will soon be able to party at taxpayers' expense, even after they have been put behind bars. This minister takes good care of his VVD friends, so he's probably gonna go a long way with the VVD. The minister should not close prisons, he should build prisons. Because if we simply give criminals the high penalties they deserve, if we allow criminals to serve their entire sentence and not release them prematurely, if we give life to the most dangerous rapists, murderers and, of course, terrorists, and if we have all the convicted criminals who are supposed to be in prison but have without any difficulty withdrawn, arrested and imprisoned, then we should not close down four prisons, but maybe build up six prisons. Then there is also enough room to secure and then deport all those illegals who remain in the Netherlands. Then the Netherlands is much safer and much more just. Then there's a point about parole. It would be dealt with, but this minister only wants to narrow it down a little. Lots of talk and little action we see there. Of course, we have to get rid of this weird system. As far as we're concerned, any convicted criminal should just serve his sentence to the maximum. The number of incidents involving TBs....... are the most violent and dangerous criminals in the Netherlands.. has increased in recent years. Escapes, violence in the TBs clinic and smuggling drugs, phones and child pornography are now more common than exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u20	I still have a question about parole. If we don't lock everyone up for the rest of his life, they'll get out at some point. Is the PVV's policy to do that cold turkey? So you don't do anything during prison and then you open the door: garbage bags, toodle dokie. Is that really the way to make the Netherlands safer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u21	First we have to go to a system of minimum punishment. That is what my colleague Helder has just said. To this end, we have tabled a legislative proposal. So you have to start with very long sentences. Of course, there's nothing in the way of looking in prison at how a prisoner best returns to society. However, as Mrs Van Toorenburg and I have already had a lot of exchanges in this type of debate, I would like to stress that the most dangerous criminals in the Netherlands should not get used to a return to society at all. They'll have to stay in jail for the rest of their lives. I hope that you will support the minimum sentences that will make this possible, because the most dangerous criminals in the Netherlands should not return to society, not conditionally, not with ankle bracelets, not with drones above their heads. They just need to stay in jail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u22	We know that story, but my question was another one. If we don't lock everyone up for the rest of our lives and have to get them out at some point, how are we gonna do that? Are we gonna do that cold turkey with two garbage bags by the front door? Or are we going to do it gradually? And so not just saying they have to stay inside, integrating is hard, and then we just put them out on the street? 'Cause then you won't be able to see it. What exactly is the PVV's wish?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u23	You have two types of criminals. The most dangerous ones stay in prison at the PVV for a very long time and get life. So there's nothing in the way for the lighter criminal to go out cold turkey, as you call it, because it's not that dangerous. It doesn't need to be re-integrated at all. Those are all of those fabrication programs that don't work anyway. So there's nothing in the way of giving you any help in prison when prisoners are sick or in need of guidance. Our proposal does not stand in the way of this, but if a sentence is imposed, it must be served entirely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u24	I understand that we only have two types of criminals: those who have to live for life and those who are shorter. But it is a pity that the PVV never wanted to see that the facilities that people eventually bring out, step by step, know the lowest relapse rates. I thought we could hang out in that together, but apparently we didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u25	But the risks and incidents that have taken place during these leave periods, not only in the case of tbs but also in the case of conditional release, are simply too great. Nor can it be explained and not just that if a criminal is punished by, say, ten years after five years, because it is not after two thirds, it is sometimes much earlier accompanied and often unguided outside. We have an unjust system here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u26	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u27	We were talking about the tbs. Lust killers from TBs clinics are crisscrossing the Netherlands and can make a new victim at any time. Unfortunately, this has happened far too often in recent years. On behalf of my group, I call on the Minister to get to work. Start cleaning up rubble as soon as possible and stop locking down prisons. Leave hard-working prison staff alone and give them the means to restore order in prisons. Stop the festivities of criminals in prisons. Make sure that at least one drug dog is present in each prison, so that what comes in can be traced. Stop getting engaged to tbs as long as this is not a waterproof system, where new victims continue to fall. Mr. Chairman. Then there's another subject. Last year, among other things, I advocated choosing prosecutors and judges every four years. Crime must be combated. I am convinced that choosing officials will lead to a safer Netherlands. But also the so-called standing magistrate, the lawyers, sometimes extreme-left, sometimes very devious, need to be corrected. Some of them try to force and manipulate procedures by distorting facts. For example, take Jos Brecht's lawyer in the Nicky Verstappen case. This man is magical with facts to plead the innocence of a suspected child killer. Or the many asylum lawyers who, through their lying procedures, are able to stack up procedures. Lawyers who knowingly lie on behalf of their client, deny murders or debit falsehoods in asylum procedures are now rewarded, while they should be punished for this behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u28	I am curious to see what kind of punishment Mr Markuszower had in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u29	I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u30	Ah!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u31	Lawyers now have a monopoly on procedural representation and benefit financially from current practice. Well, messing with the truth takes time, so the lawyers get money. In addition, they sometimes release the most dangerous killers and rapists with their falsehoods. The PVV wants to put an end to these devious, disgusting but above all dangerous practices. The Netherlands should not become more unsafe but safer. In the code of conduct, and now I come to Mrs Buitenweg's answer to the lawyer, it is already stated that lawyers should refrain from providing information which they know is incorrect. The PVV considers that the filing of facts, which a lawyer knows or can reasonably know are contrary to the truth, should be punishable. The PVV would also like the Minister to take care of this. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The final point of my contribution to this budget is to monitor the so-called harassment processes. The judiciary is gradually becoming the accomplice of the legal jihadists and the cultural relayists. The truth can't be said anymore. The list of examples is endless. I will mention a number of them. Geert Wilders, not only my group chairman but also the leader of the second party of the Netherlands, is being prosecuted, because the mouths of critical politicians apparently need to be restrained. North Korean situation! The D.A. really pulled everything out of the closet to teach the blockage Friese a lesson, while trying to protect their children from the aggression and terror of the extreme left. The public prosecutor even made an animation film about why the blockage Frisians had to be prosecuted. It's bizarre that these people are being prosecuted and convicted. They should have had a ribbon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u32	Were you finishing up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u33	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u34	Then I suggest you do it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u35	Okay. The TBs who raped an employee of the TBs clinic get only three years in prison, but the father who managed to keep his young daughter out of the hands of a loose tbser gets no less than four and a half years in prison. The judiciary again punishes heroes and pampers the most dangerous criminals in the Netherlands. Members of the life-threatening mocromafia, who were preparing the hijacking of a helicopter to free their foreman Benaouf A. from prison, are only sentenced to two and a half years in prison. What is this signal to society and to all the other criminals with similar plans? Such statements will only stimulate them in realising their plans. What is the Minister going to do about this kind of insanely low punishment of the most serious and dangerous criminals in the Netherlands? What's he gonna do to put an end to this? And what is the Minister going to do to stop the prosecution from starting harassment proceedings, with everything being pulled out of the closet to get a conviction? The public prosecutor screams at high and low levels that it's going to die in work, but that's totally unbelievable as long as it starts this kind of harassment process. The high penalties in the intimidation trials and the low penalties for life-threatening murderers, mafia members, terrorists and rapists undermine the rule of law. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u36	At the end of the day, I suddenly found another point of reference, namely that Mr Markuszower is really against intimidation, because freedom of expression exists and because people simply have to be able to say what they want. So I think it is very important that people are not intimidated to refrain from expressing their opinion. I was wondering how he looked at last weekend's harassments in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u37	What exactly is Mrs Buitenweg referring to? Because last weekend, like every weekend, I saw intimidations from many sides over and over again. If you refer to the questions that have also been raised today in oral Question Time... I think you mean the hooligans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u38	That's very clever. Yeah, that's the one I meant. Well, it wasn't the hooligans. At least there was a lot of racist language. I was wondering if you didn't think that was very intimidating for the freedom of speech that you stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u39	The law is the same for everyone. Anyone who is guilty of racism, intimidation and violence has, in my opinion, also been thrown with objects, apples and I know a lot about them, must be severely punished, rather than by the judges, who are often members of your party and of D66, because they impose very low penalties. The law is the same for everyone. If people commit racism, intimidation or anything else that is punishable, they must be prosecuted. It is often a problem that there is no persecution in the Netherlands. We spoke to the COC today; I think you were there as well. The COC says that only less than 10% of the violence against homosexuals in the Netherlands is persecuted and leads to a conviction. It's horrible. There is therefore the problem in the Netherlands that the prosecution does not pursue violence and racism. There is also the problem that, if prosecuted, it often does not come to a conviction and that, if it comes to a conviction, there is not enough punishment. The law is the same for everyone. So I wouldn't know why you'd think I'd think otherwise than you would.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u40	Okay. It was quite a long time, but I conclude that the PVV is actually saying that the people who committed violence and intimidation against the anti-Black Piet Demonstrators must be dealt with, severely punished and punished for being racist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u41	Yeah, if that's the legal standard, sure. But I would like to make the following point. All this has started with, for example, The Grey Age. I have requested a debate on this subject, supported by a majority of the Chamber, but we have not yet had it. It has begun with extreme left-wing statements against Black Piet. Mayors in the Netherlands have invited dangerous extreme left-wing parties and pretended to be parties with which you should be able to table. I think this deserves a separate debate. The fact is that if people on any side use violence or commit any criminal offence, they must be dealt with hard. That goes for the extreme right, that goes for the extreme left, and as far as I am concerned, so are mayors who have facilitated extreme left parties in this whole discussion, which has ruined a children's party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u42	The PVV Group, Mr Markuszower, has said so again, and just now his colleague Mrs Helder, who is a strong supporter of minimum penalties, has also said so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u43	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u44	But in the list that Mr Markuszower just gave us, the list of annoyances about judgments, there was also a case by which perhaps the opposite of what Mr Markuszower has in mind was achieved. The point is that someone has now been punished for something with, if I have listened carefully to Mr Markuszower, over four years. And Mr Markuszower thinks in this: how the hell is that possible? In other words, if we realize the PVV's wish, doesn't the PVV think that any tailor-made work on the part of the judiciary could be useful?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u45	There you have a point to take, if not that my initiative proposal on minimum penalties, which has been submitted under my name for the second time, in a different form than the PVV had previously submitted, is only working, which is exactly the point you mention, in conjunction with my other proposal last year, to elect judges, prosecutors, attorney general and even the Advocate General four times a year. I am convinced that an elected prosecutor or an elected judge would never have prosecuted that man from my example, a father who protects his daughter from a runaway tbser, who calls the police and who, if the police do not come, eventually would have prosecuted or prosecuted his daughter from a certain desire for protection and perhaps even emotion, perhaps a wrong emotion, taking the law into his own hands and protecting his daughter. Condemned. I think that elected judge gave that man a bunch of flowers, led him out of court and had a cup of coffee with him after the trial. This is what elected judges and prosecutors do. Named judges, often voters of D66 and GroenLinks, unjustly punish such heroes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u46	In any case, I understand that if we are going to deal with Mr Markuszower's bill here, we need to adopt another law to see it in combination. Anyway, I'll wait and see. But, you know, I'm trying to think with you. On some parts, I really do understand you. It's just... it's complicated for me. It would be nice if you would give room and give room for some customization, for some independence from the judiciary, because I appreciate it on my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u47	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u48	Well, I have to answer. We're not treating the Law of Minimal Punishment right now. I will certainly try to give room in that debate. We'll deal with that bill, and then I'll say it all works best in combination. I think that separate law would be doing a good job right now. It's a good interruption you made, with that customization. During the debate on minimum penalties, we may have to formulate a better response to this than I have just said, although I am not saying that I do not support my answer. So, in that debate, in which I will have to give you room, I will make an even better answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u49	Thank you, Mr. Markuszower. I am now going to Mr Van Oosten on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u50	Mr. Chairman. A safe society is the basis of a pleasant life. I'd like to start with that determination. Because if we don't feel safe, everything else sucks. We, as politicians, cannot guarantee this security; we have said this on a number of occasions. What we can guarantee is our commitment to do everything we can to keep our country as safe as possible. A lot of organizations are working on this day in and day out: police, Public Prosecutor's Office, military and judiciary. We must also note that there are a lot of things that threaten our security, big and small, far and near, concrete and sometimes extremely elusive. I refer to terrorism, serious crime and fraud. I will mention a number of issues in my contribution in a moment. I will also make proposals on the part of the VVD to further enhance our security where that can be done. Mr. Chairman. Last year I took you all to the Beijerlandslaan in Rotterdam-Zuid; you will remember. That is a beautiful, stately avenue in a beautiful city area, but now it is also a chain of the same. It is a series of the same kind of shops: jewelry stores, bridal fashion shops, money exchange offices and you name it all. If you look at how much purchasing power there is actually in that neighborhood, then it can't be that those stores are drowning themselves with what the locals can spend there. No, because what is it really, the good ones not too spoken after? What is it? It is also a gathering place where young boys and men from modern couplers can hear from which container in the harbor to get the cocaine. And what's serious is that if you're being shown around by the community's keepers, you're gonna see these guys' brothers and sisters walking by with their backpacks on their way to school. That hurts. I really think it's our job to protect those children from crime. They really deserve a better future. For example, I would like to raise the first point on behalf of my group, namely the Bibob test. That Bibob test could help with this. The Bibob National Bureau now advises governments whether it is justified, for example, to grant a permit to a company or grant a subsidy. If it turns out that that company is in fact a front for criminal activities, the licence will be refused. But that only works if the government wants something or if something is required from the government. That is why you can now see that all kinds of municipalities are Amsterdam, I believe the last example is really for everything and yet introduce some licensing obligation. I also understand that the mayor and the city council of Amsterdam want to do so, but why don't we make sure that the Bibob test is made available on a voluntary basis to those who want to prevent parts of their property from ending up in rental or resale with criminals? What can the ministers do in that? I would also like to know from both directors what benefits a mandatory Bibob test could have for private owners in neighbourhoods or streets that are now simply threatened with crime. And then I really do not just confine myself to the so-called weak neighbourhoods; let me also emphasise that. No, white-collar crime in expensive neighborhoods in the Netherlands can and should fall under the same conditions. I'd like to hear a response from the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u51	I'd like a Bibob test for landlords to check out crooked landlords, too, but that's not the issue right now. I have a serious question. I find it an interesting proposal, but I do wonder how it fits within the wish package that is already in place to improve the Bibob. There are capacity problems and it takes too long for Bibob keys to be run. In addition, any legislation requested by mayors to strengthen the Bibob in relation to the exchange of information is not supported by this cabinet. You are now putting a new proposal on top of it. So my call is actually: just finish what the most urgent thing is before you put a question on top of it. Or can I also expect you to urge the Cabinet not to hesitate now and not to do new investigations, but to shape the Bibob into legislation in accordance with the needs of the mayors?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u52	I can be brief in the direction of Mrs Kuik: I would like nothing more. Let me also use this place to encourage the two rulers at that point. We'd be shorthanded if we waited. Mrs. Kuik is stuck on the streets like me and then finds out where it can do even better. Of course, I'm not gonna wait to report it. Where that fits, maybe it doesn't even have to be in the shape of the Bibob. I'm inspired by the Bibob, but maybe you don't even need the Bibob National Bureau for it. You have to know what criminal backgrounds and criminal intentions people have. Let's have the courage to communicate about that. Protect people from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u53	That's what I can think of. I love your creative proposals that often come from this Chamber, but my problem is that this requires a certain degree of information sharing. It calls for privacy thresholds to be overcome to some extent. We can already see that in the first instance of the Bibob legislation that the cabinet intends to make. They haven't honored all kinds of mayor's wishes. So we can convince each other, but my question to you is now...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u54	To Mr Van Oosten, you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u55	Yes, I am sorry, Mr President, to Mr Van Oosten as one of the coalition members. My question is: what are we going to do to ensure that this legislation is correct in the first tranche? Otherwise, we are sharing beautiful words with each other, but ultimately we are not getting anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u56	As far as I'm concerned, they're not pretty words. I am in a position to simply put forward a motion on this and ask the Chamber to give a ruling, because I am seriously concerned about it. It's not the first time I've complained about information sharing. I just want this picked up. If you limit yourself to governments only, you're failing yourself, because there are also private owners and housing corporations, and you need to involve them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u57	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u58	Finalising on the legislation, the Bibob and the requests that are already there. I'd like to sign that motion. I know you have a majority in this Chamber, so let's do it most of all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u59	Please, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u60	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u61	I'm going on, Chairman, and I'm going to stay in Rotterdam for a while. I got inspired by that city. They have introduced the Rotterdam-based patser approach there this year. There has also been some criticism, but at the same time you have to note that it is a fact that your young men are often seeing boys in extremely expensive brand clothing, with perhaps gold watches and you name it all. And you don't tell me that they can earn that from the job I used to have: selling smoke sausage at the HEMA. No, they might do that by trading ecstasy pills or maybe by, worse still, prostituteing girls. We have also discussed this in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u62	Did you really sell smoke sausage?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u63	Yes, I did. And cakes. But I will not be distracted, Chairman! What do I want? Last year I tabled a motion with Mr Van Nispen on this point. He also saw financial supervision. I want to know what's been done with that by now. What steps have been taken to take this really hard? Are there any opportunities to simply roll out Rotterdam's patser-approach across the country? Why not? If it works, let's act on it. Camera surveillance. I have a good cooperation with Mrs Van Toorenburg of the CDA and her predecessor on this dossier, the current mayor of the CDA. Using camera footage when investigating and prosecuting, preferably in such a way that it does not lead to a reduction in the penalty: we have both tabled motions on this issue. Can any recording be used in case of prosecution? Are there any obstacles? Can the images simply be handed over to search services or handed over to them? Can the Ministers comment on any problems that the GDPR may cause? What if someone with a smartphone is just filming something on the side of the road? He didn't say that he did, but he did film and recorded what went wrong and what crime was committed. Can those images just be used? Cybercrime. Criminals become more inventive and so the work of the police also changes. That is a theme that, of course, also comes regularly in a lot of general discussions. It is invested in, but Dutch business is at the forefront of knowledge and skills in this area. Why shouldn't we let the digital police use it? I would like to hear from the Minister of Police what he has done in deploying volunteers with a background in business who understand cyber questions. Can we strengthen each other? And yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry, because this is a bit of a heel on the branch, but what we're dealing with here is quite a bit! The drug labs are also an issue. You can see that especially in the south of the country, but I am convinced that drug labs exist throughout the country. They require a tough approach. These drug labs give rise to life-threatening situations, sometimes also in residential areas. We need to take these criminals out. We all have that ambition. As far as I am concerned, we are charging those who caused it with all the costs of disposing of waste. We would also like to see an investigation into the possibility of returning the illegally obtained goods of these people to society. I'm just saying, if the speedboat they bought is taken away, can't it be donated to the rescue squad? Then I come to the topic of cash. That's what I've been digging into.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u64	But Mrs Buitenweg has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u65	What Mr Van Oosten has all looked into! My question is about the waste. Mr Van Oosten said that, as far as he is concerned, criminals should pay for cleaning up. I get that. In any case, he is saying that it is unfair for landowners to take the fall for that. It's often €30,000 to €40,000 and they can't help it. Does he think that there should be some sort of regulation for these landowners to compensate them for the cost of cleaning up the drug waste?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u66	If I am well informed there was in the past a kind of co-financing scheme in which I believe the province played a role. I don't know if it's still there. The VVD then argued for that and made themselves hard for it. I also understood at that time that money wasn't taken crazy enough, so I would find it interesting to know how that happened. Then maybe we can think about this and see if we can set it up somewhere. We have to get money from somewhere; we have to be honest with each other. But, as far as I'm concerned, let's put this question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u67	I think it would be very good to hear from the Minister how this arrangement went and whether there might still be some bread in a new arrangement in the future, if there is a need for it. That seems to me to be a good proposal through Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u68	Let's wait for the Minister's response. Mr. President, cash. You know, whoever has a lot of cash is just the king. I have now been informed by several mayors and prosecutors of what an incredibly powerful position criminals get by having, possessing, large sums of cash. 'Cause that's how they can bribe. It gives power. It's giving us a position. It is earned by criminal activities, sometimes criminal violence too, for which society has run a huge risk. I just gave the example of the young men in Rotterdam who empty sea containers in which cocaine is hidden. Well, they don't get paid at the end of the month. They just get cash. If I am well informed, there are now several European countries where governments have moved on or where there are plans to reduce cash payments above certain values. That way mob-like gangs can't actually go anywhere with their money. At least that's gonna make it harder. I would therefore like to put that question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, or not also to the Netherlands in a responsible way to reduce the circulation of cash, in particular as regards the criminal circuit. I said in the media, for example, when I had to mention an amount, that you might think of an amount above €500. I explained this: everything under $500 can still be paid in cash. I really have to do my best to spend over $500 in cash. That hasn't happened to me in years. Anyway, I don't want to make an example of myself. But I do think it is important to consider whether we can strike at crime on this point. If you set a high value for criminals, but very low for criminals, then it seems to me that all illiterates, digibetes, people who want to spend cash, are in no way hindered. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to investigate the measures that have been taken in the meantime abroad. What benefits can this have for the Netherlands? I am not completely silly and have received some e-mails when I once said this on the radio, so I ask the Minister: would you please also talk to Retailers in the Netherlands, to the catering industry in the Netherlands and to the organisations that are relevant in this context? Because they also see questions coming. I've also heard back that people understand that you have to do something about those large amounts of cash that are now in circulation, including with criminals, and we don't let them do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u69	I share Mr Van Oosten's view that every approach to crime is top priority, but is this really the problem? Is not much more the problem that criminals use all kinds of legal entities and hide behind all kinds of identities and that, for example, the trust sector plays a very important role in this? What is the VVD's position on tackling crime in relation to the trust sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u70	If there are organisations that are deliberately and actively violating our rules of law, they are doing this wrong. It may also be that we have not done our job properly and that we need to clarify when something is forbidden. Then we have to get to work and everyone knows what they are doing. I am very simple about that. Mr Van Nispen will also talk about money laundering issues and transactions concluded with the Public Prosecutor. If that happens, it is not a safeguard for the people who work underneath in that company; you should also be able to address them. We've made a set of rules, and we have to stick to them. Then it's fair and open to everyone. If you don't stick to that, the government has to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u71	I think it's a little small beer; the T-shirt or the golden necklace of that boy on Rotterdam-South. It's fine to deal with that, including the $500, but the point is that these people make hundreds of millions. They can only bring it to them by covering it up and doing it. I'd like to hear some ideas about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u72	I would very much like to think about this with Mr Van Dam and see what we can do about it. I am also honest and say that I have now put my focus on the neighborhoods and streets that matter to me, because I have seen those boys and girls walking to school there. Of course I also know that the big bosses may be in very scary, big, heavy, mafia-like network structures, but those big bosses do know the crooks in the criminal world, the stupid types, to buy by using cash. So I won't think too simple about the importance of working on that as well. I wouldn't say that taking away expensive branded clothes or a gold watch from a guy like that, who might be prostituteing a girl, or trying to prostitute, is a small beer, a term you use. For these guys this is indeed a status symbol, which inspires others and then the neighborhood is further down the drain. That's what I want to break through.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u73	In addition to that. I think it is a good thing that we are developing a final approach for the most visible street, as Mr Van Oosten points out. If we do too little there, we certainly need to adapt it. You can see that Rabobank was fined 295 million euros for laundering money for the Mexican mob. We recently had the settlement with ING for 750 million euros. We're talking very large amounts of money here. What can we do about it so that we can make people in the country feel that the law also comes into the white-collar crime? I am also thinking of Mr Emperor, a member of your party, who has received EUR 20 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u74	We agreed there wouldn't be so many personal names.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u75	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I'm thinking of people who take many millions and use the top world for that, that's the tricky thing. How are we gonna fight that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u76	I am very pleased with Mr Azarkan's question, which gives me the opportunity to reflect a little more on Mr Van Nispen's and me's proposal. I would have come back to it differently, but I wouldn't have to anymore. I hope you will take a positive view of this. When the Public Prosecutor closes a transaction with a large company, and you have to do so, because you can't lock a company behind bars, it has to meet a few conditions. That should be as public as possible. As far as I'm concerned, there's got to be a guilty confession in there. There must be a very high fine, which really scares off. And very important is that the people who caused it, the actual managers or principals, do not feel safe and think that they can escape the dance, because some big company is going to draw the Stock Exchange, which may then be paid by the taxpayer, the shareholders or make it up. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Well, I hope that can count on your support. Mr Van Nispen will tell you in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u77	I await the proposal with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u78	Thank you. Proceed, Mr. Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u79	I wanted to take a step to traditional neighborhood parties. You know that the VVD has also drawn attention to this in the past period, but I mean this in a somewhat more annoying context. This year, for example, there was a carnival in Bussum, and that carnival is just a little bit flat, I might say, terrorized by 200 young people. They really molested the place there; I wouldn't know how to formulate this better. So we cannot accept that in this country. We can't accept that this kind of antisocial young guests just ruin our traditions and our neighborhood parties. And so we also have to count on a government that enforces respect. Then I read in the newspaper that the mayor there was only informed by the newspaper; if it is all wrong, then I do hear it again, and I really needed every police officer to keep things quiet, so everything else couldn't. I would like to hear from the Minister when local authority can also think about scaling up on the use of marechaussee, as we have here around the Chamber Building. When can this be called upon? I'd like a response. Then, Mr President, another point: freed-up jihadists. In the latest threat picture, NCTV warns that in the coming years jihadists known to persist in jihadist ideas will regularly be released from detention. Yeah. The VVD does not want to run the risk of leading potentially life-threatening persons back to society. And we have just received a letter about it again, so I know that municipalities and the parole service perform a very important role in this, but I want to know from the ministers to what extent the so-called "long-term behavioural and freedom-limiting measures" of the Law can also apply to these jihadists, especially now that there can be an acute threat to public order, if those jihadists are not really deradicalised. If the law offers room, I would like to call on the Minister to make this public, so that municipalities and all other organisations involved can make timely calls and make use of necessary interventions under that law, in order to protect our society. But if that is not the case, I would like to call on the rulers to amend the law so that it does come under it. Because that's what our society deserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u80	Are you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u81	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u82	These are justified points that Mr Van Oosten makes. Shouldn't this include the fact that terrorists are now simply returning to society through regular departments, out of sight of the expertise of the staff of the terrorist department, "thin" in prisons and then join the parole board?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u83	I welcome this addition by Mrs Van Toorenburg. I don't pretend to have all the wisdom in rent. This is what I was worried about. I see the point Mrs Van Toorenburg is making. Maybe we should go even wider: if we just make sure that they can't let those delusions, those jihadist thoughts that they may be persevering in happen in our society. I don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u84	Then it is important, I think, that this aspect be taken into account. I asked the Minister of Justice and Security a question about this earlier in the AO Terrorism. But now that the Minister for Legal Protection, who also deals with the prison system, is also present, I urge him to pay attention to this. Because at the moment they must not be phased out from the terrorist division. It always goes through a regular department. That's asking for trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u85	This was actually a question from Mr Van Oosten to the Minister for Legal Protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u86	Yes. And, you know, I'm also curious about the answer. This theme is very dear to us as a VVD. I've been thinking about coming up with a motion in second term, but that's a little premature now, perhaps. Perhaps we can work together and then take on board all the points that are precisely relevant at this point. But the best thing would still be if the rulers simply said by themselves: you have a point here, we are going to work on it and we are going to make the system so that we can shape it properly, even if we do not know what can happen to us and we cannot prevent everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u87	A question on this point too. I have heard Mr Van Oosten mention a whole bunch of measures, and bodies that have to go around jihadists. We have 500 known jihadists in the Netherlands. There are some others abroad, who also want to bring the VVD back to the Netherlands. So we're going to get a whole pile of foundations and funded organizations from the government, including the municipal government, that are all going to be around those jihadists. How many people does Mr Van Oost want one jihadist to pamper in the hope that Islam will ever disappear from this person?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u88	In all honesty. You will undoubtedly be right, but I have never thought about it, to be honest with you, I do not want to see how many people, probably paid for tax money, are needed to keep jihadists in check. But do you know why I don't feel like thinking about that? Because I think it is much more important that we organise a system that gives me the confidence to act against jihadists who are released and who may not be deradicalized, so against people who can no longer be trusted. You just need people to do that. I wouldn't be too sparing in that, I would advise the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u89	I have a very nice system for Mr Van Oosten, which is called 'denaturalizing and leaving the country after punishment'. Indeed, these people have violated confidence for the rest of their lives, damaging it to the Netherlands. They never deserve to be trusted again. You can declare a jihadist deradicalized, but deradicalisation simply does not work, as has been proven on all sides. I'd like to work with the VVD to arrange for us to close the borders, because then you won't get a new one in. First of all, that must be done. Those who served their sentence are going to be denaturalized and we are going to make sure that they never end up in the Netherlands again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u90	Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u91	Then we will no longer have to deal with a huge mountain of aid workers, for which Mr Van Oosten wants to spend a great deal of money. He hasn't even thought about how much that's gonna cost. Our solution is almost free. So I would say: join us!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u92	That was quite an argument, Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u93	I find the solution proposed by the PVV a bit short-sighted and rather stupid. You suggest that, if you close the borders tomorrow, the issue of the jihadists who are now released from prison is no longer there. You also suggest that you can send all those jihadists back to Syria tomorrow or wherever they come from. If it's possible, maybe it won't happen. I want to make sure that the system is set up so that all the authorities we have can protect our people, the Dutch, you and I, our families. That's what we're going for, isn't it? You then have your own desire to close the borders and not let anyone in. Well, I'll let you fight your battles, but I think, as long as you haven't gotten your wish, I'd rather think about how at least we're having a little fun here with each other. That's what I started.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u94	One final question at this point, Mr. De Graaf. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u95	I will indeed close this point. Can-not is in the cemetery, next to will-not. It's as simple as that. The VVD is bound with the government to all kinds of treaties they don't want to get rid of. I referred to Article 3 of the ECHR, which prevents people from being sent back to Syria. Then say goodbye to that. Why keep those people in our country when they could leave the country if you just take the measures that need to be taken? Not that pampering, not putting our own children in danger! We just saw another stabbing in London at the Lidl in Romford. Guys like that should've been out of England a long time ago. And if they're in the Netherlands, they should have left the Netherlands. Why does the VVD not address that reality and keep the Netherlands unsafe? Our children!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u96	Mr. Chairman, you know what? The PVV colleague is really at the wrong place if he wants to appeal to me that I or my party would be unwilling to think about how people can be evicted from this country when they do not comply with our rules. Fine; we'd like to think about that. The fact is that we live in the here and now and that jihadists, as the threat analysis shows, are simply released. Then we can put our heads in the sand and think: we close the borders and send them away. But I think that's a short-sighted thought and I'd rather think a little further. Mr President, I would like to take you on a very different subject, another fierce subject, but that is very soon when you talk about the Justice Budget: cold cases, unsolved murder cases. You'd be a victim or a survivor of a serious violent crime. Then you really want nothing more than for the unsub to be tracked down and tried. Fortunately, with modern detection techniques, the detectives regularly manage to track down the perpetrators of this kind of horrific crime. Unfortunately, over the past few years, 1,500 to 1,700 cases have remained unresolved. Coldcase teams throughout the country are working hard to solve these issues with the help of modern techniques. I would actually like to propose three points to the Minister of Justice in order to give them more support, more opportunities for real results. Firstly, these teams need to have access to as much relevant information as possible. They just run into obstacles that can be easily removed in my simple reasoning. My appeal to the Minister is: please follow that. Coldcase teams don't just have access to police records. The Police Data Act or the Police Data Protection Act I don't know exactly what it's called "Police Data" or "Police Data Protection Act" or "Police Data Protection Act" or "Police Data" or "Police Data Protection Act" or "Police Data Protection Act" or "Police Data Protection Act." I don't know exactly what it's called "Police Data You have to do that through a so-called gatekeeper. There's a handful of them. Of course, this has been done for very sensible reasons, as I have been told, because not everyone can have access to privacy-sensitive data. But I think coldcase teams should be able to have that access so that they can also look for links between recent and older cases. Of course, those coldcase detectives don't know exactly what they're looking for either, but they're looking for it. Then there is the second point. You also need a digitization stroke. Old files are often not digitally available, so we need to change that so that this information can be more easily involved in research. That's a time-consuming operation that volunteers may be available for. In order to be able to use them, it is necessary to consider how these people can help with digitally unlocking the files, for example by signing a light screening or by signing a non-disclosure agreement or applying for a vog. Then there is the third point, and that cannot be unknown to the Minister because I have asked him several times about it. A lot of material has already been taken that can contain evidence to track down cold-case perpetrators. That's on the shelf at the NFI, but you can't use it now because the DNA law doesn't apply retroactively to the use of those materials. So it would be 20,000 pieces of potential evidence. I just really want this to be unlocked and the data from it to be added to the DNA database, so you can also make matches. In short, three very specific wishes when it comes to cold cases. I would ask the Minister to make very specific commitments on this point. Then there is the money laundering issue, but I can quickly get through it, because Mr Van Nispen will come back to it, at least for the part I support. I understand that he is also a little broader; I do not share that, but we will be discussing this in a separate dialogue. Legal aid. The Minister for Legal Protection has outlined outlines of the new system of legal aid. I'm actually content with that. I have the idea that the system will remain sustainable, but will also become fairer. From my perception it is true that if you did not do anything about the current system, there is the chance of legal inequality between the party that litigates with state subsidies and the party that just makes too much money for it, which can be a lot of Dutch people with very ordinary, by the way, important jobs. And that's not fair. I think that the Minister's outline is a good basis for building up this new system and for giving a position to those who are not able to make use of these subsidies and at the same time ensuring that people who do have to sue on the basis of subsidies can continue to do so, so that we actually maintain a sustainable system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u97	I imagine you can get some positive points out of this plan. I can do that myself, I really can. But the whole of the plans must also be of some concern to Mr Van Oosten. To begin with, where is the basis of these plans? There would be an unbridled cost increase. People would only sue a little loosely. Lawyers would only be paid for procedures and not for advice. Where is the basis of these plans? And does Mr Van Oosten actually recognise that the contour system, as it is now contained in the letter, is simply contrary to the coalition agreement? It is not in line with the reports of the Wolfsen, Barkhuysen and Van der Meer committees, and that was promised in the coalition agreement. Does Mr Van Oosten recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u98	Well, I don't recognize that. That was your question: do you recognize or recognize that? Well, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u99	Then either Mr Van Oosten did not read all these investigations correctly, or he did not read the letter correctly, or he does not know the coalition agreement. Or all three, you can. But it is serious, because not one of those reports said: throw the whole system upside down. Those reports said that the system is working, but there are problems, and they see in particular the far too low fees for social lawyers, the passionate idealists. This Minister is not going to solve that, because this Minister is strictly following another passage from the government agreement, namely that it should not cost a penny more. This Minister is doing exactly as you wish. But throwing the system upside down, contracting and bringing the prize fighters into the system wasn't in any report. It has been explicitly warned: don't go for a tender. This government will. Their own contributions may go up. A gatekeeper is being introduced. So my question is: what parts are Mr Van Oosten's opinion? What's he worried about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u100	Well, I am concerned that if we do not pay attention, we will ultimately not achieve what I think this system change is desirable for, namely to ensure that it remains a sustainable and fair system. I have just said it in my words, and I really do not have much more to add: I really think that if you do not do anything about the system as it is now, then it will cause people who are outside these subsidy schemes to lose their support. And I think you should think about that seriously. And what is now in the outline sketch is that there is therefore an opportunity to sue on the basis of legal aid packages, which does not necessarily mean that it goes along the way of a lawyer. Why is that wrong? I'm fine with that. If a lawyer isn't needed to solve a problem, why would you have to hire a lawyer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u101	Finally, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u102	The backup's rattling. There is no recognition that there are still certain concerns in these plans. It is very easy to make a positive point, but I really think we should come back to this in a separate debate, as I have asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u103	I think that's very wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u104	Unfortunately, that was not supported. But another chance tomorrow, because there's a lot more to be said about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u105	Then I'm going to see Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u106	Yes, in the absence of any other time, since the request for a debate is not supported, let me just say it here: I really do not understand what Mr Van Oosten's optimism is based on. What does it show that this system is good? And that means that justice remains accessible, even to the people with a very small wallet? I just don't understand what you're saying. If I could just sum it up, you say...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u107	Mr Van Oosten says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u108	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Oosten says that there is a group of people who are not covered by this regulation, and that is why we are going to make it impossible for everyone. I do not quite understand what your optimism is based on, I say through you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u109	Fine, I can repeat myself. I think it is necessary to make changes to the legal aid system as we know it now. Because I have concerns if you don't. Then you have to shape it in such a way that it becomes responsible and sustainable. It must be a system that also understands "the middle groups," as I call it. That could be the stewardess you fly to Greece in the summer. That could be my own son's teacher. That could also be the man or woman who drives the tram here in the morning. They all have to understand that the system is fair and remains fair, and that is how they experience it. I want a system that will ensure that if you are subpoenaed by the powerful State, it will happen to you. You can count on a good lawyer. I want a system that prevents the government from suing unnecessarily and that also makes the government feel like it's simply needlessly litigating. I also want to go to a system where you dare to think about whether a lawyer is needed. If you don't need a lawyer, why would you put in a lawyer? Why? And you're asking me why I think that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u110	I'm asking...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u111	I don't think it's a bad idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u112	I am not asking Mr Van Oosten about castles and dreams he has. I note that part of society, in particular the part dealing with social lawyers, is in no way critical of the proposal. There's just money out of it. Mr Van der Meer has done some research on this and his recommendations do nothing. I also note that in more than half of the cases it is the State which is being challenged. So that's already unbalanced on balance. And you're talking about money. I learned one thing when I was working at a big city. I had a colleague who had a text, which said: in the end, the State wins. So suing the state is complicated, too. What are you doing with the criticism of the lawyer, of people in legal aid, who say: this is simply not sustainable and this deprives people of the right to fair justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u113	Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u114	Perhaps I should take away a misunderstanding between Mr Azarkan and myself, or perhaps I should clarify something from my position. I am happy to be led in this whole discussion by the man or the woman, or just the Dutchman, who has a problem. And I think that it is our responsibility, especially when it comes to the use of money that we make with each other, that the Dutchman is helped with that. And sometimes you need a lawyer and sometimes you don't. Sometimes you need to go to court and sometimes you don't. Then you do need a government that knows how to restrain itself and doesn't needlessly go to trial, or bully civilians. I am concerned about that, and I see these outline sketches, all of which have yet to be worked out and which we are undoubtedly going to discuss very much at your service, I would like nothing more. But in that I see very nice starting positions, to get in there. And you're calling that a dream, maybe a delusional "no," I call that sensible. That is thinking about how to ensure that in the coming years there will be a system as unique as we have built it. That can't stay the way it is, if you want to keep it sustainable and honest. Then you have to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u115	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u116	Then there is the request to Mr Van Oosten: if a debate is requested by Mr Van Nispen, will you support it so that we can share the arguments?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u117	Yeah, but do you know why I didn't support that last time? Because we have a budget debate here. Moreover, I imagine that you deal with this in general consultation, as is customary in letters from the cabinet. It also makes more sense, also to protect the time here, that you have an AO about it, because we will be able to ask a lot of details, et cetera. But that is not what we are going to decide here; we are going to do so in a procedural meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u118	That will be on the agenda in committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u119	But so often we don't change the system and this has a huge impact on society. So I would very much like to support Mr Van Nispen's proposal, and I urge you to support it, so that we can exchange the arguments and discuss them in peace.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u120	Of course, there are also good elements in the proposal, such as the need for the government to curb itself in order not to bring too many lawsuits and perhaps there are packages where a lot of people get information. But that can all be additional, and that does not mean that you are throwing access to legal aid as it currently exists all the way. So the question is: is it not possible to improve very much within the current system, especially for the groups you mean, without also throwing away the access to the legal aid of the groups that need them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u121	"Within the current system"? If you look at our country from a helicopter, we have and we have a magnificent legal aid system, whereby hundreds of millions of euros are spent annually to help people who have legal problems and do not have the money to pay a lawyer, or are subpoenaed by the State, or are in divorce, or are in conflict with that powerful government over inheritance limits, or you name it all. We do, but I want to keep it, too. And I think: then you have to really think about keeping it sustainable and honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u122	Well, then we'll just come up with the money. It is thought that this would be cheaper than if, as proposed by the various committees, we were to match the funds; the 127 million. Can I count on the VVD when we look at the total cost of the proposed system? We must not only look at the costs for the state budget, but also, for example, at what the additional costs will be for the municipalities. Because that is where a great deal of responsibility will be laid down, for example for social work. So will we ask for an estimate of the total costs, including the costs that will be incurred elsewhere in public authorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u123	I can see where Mrs. Buitenweg is going with this. She wants to make the discussion so broad that we end up with nothing. I think that's a shame. I believe that we have outlined very clear outlines in the coalition agreement, which I really support. I recognize them in the letter. You can agree with that or disagree with it, but at least that is the effect. That must now be translated further by the Minister. I believe that we are respecting the budgetary frameworks, and that is what the government agreement says, and that is how flat it is, and so it is not spending any more money on it. Do you know why I don't want that? Because in my view the system will become more unfair and therefore not sustainable. I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u124	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u125	I think that Mr Van Oosten did not understand me correctly or that I did not say it correctly. I am concerned that I think that some of the costs will not now end up in the Empire, but will fall down somewhere else, especially in municipalities. Then, of course, we can say that we have cut back on everything that is not on our budget, but then a municipality has to pay for the costs. If we look at the costs of this proposal, is the VVD prepared to look not only at the consequences for our JenV budget, but also at the total costs that governments will incur for this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u126	So my answer to that is no, because I do not share your concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u127	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u128	I have two more points and then I finish, but I have to, because the time is up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u129	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u130	Just one more word about the court hearing. Last week, I saw a broadcast of Nieuwsuur, which scared me. I'm telling you, I hope it didn't make any sense. It appeared from that broadcast that the judgment knowingly ordered the multiple chamber of inquiry to settle three judges because that would be more financially advantageous than a single judge's trial. If that's true, of course, that's just a very serious matter. It means that you have a case dealt with by three judges, while those three judges could have dealt with three individual cases. This simply means that victims have had to wait longer for a court case to be resolved if this is true; I am very careful in my words. There were three people on the air who recognized this and said the situation was so. I'd like to hear from the Minister if this is true. What's the Minister gonna do about it? What concrete actions is he going to take in this respect? Who did he talk to to get the facts straight? Then there's the waiting area for the victims. I do not think I am the only one who has paid attention to this on several occasions. I understand by now that the waiting areas are all there again, but perhaps they can be facilitated a little bit better. You have to ask for it specifically now and then you have to see if the space is available. I'd like to have real certainty that it's just settled and that when you report to a rape case in court, you just have the certainty that you can sit in a room in peace and not with the suspect, who might be the perpetrator, in the same room. Finally, one more word about privacy. Last year we launched a very nice initiative on horizontal privacy, Madam President. I'm sure you remember that. The honourable Member who had embraced it so well is no longer, at least, in the sphere of justice, but we are monitoring the subject, so I would like to hear from the Minister what he is going to do on this point. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u131	I think the rulers understand what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u132	It will have been a lack of time which left an important pain point unspoken by the VVD. That is, of course, the capacity in the criminal justice chain. Financial problems in justice. Heavyly overloaded prosecutors, which means that large organisations behind it cannot be dealt with. Highly overloaded cops who have to work four or five weekends in a row. The Chief Constable says on television that choices have to be made: do we take the rape, choose the home invasion, or are we going after organized crime? That is the current situation in the criminal justice chain. Then I would like to have a moment of reflection with the spokesperson of the VVD, because the VVD has been in charge of this ministry since 2010. How does the VVD feel that she did it herself in this ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u133	Mr Van Nispen is asking for this quite standard in debates I am holding with him. I always answer the same thing. I do not deny that the challenge in the criminal justice chain is enormous every day. I also try to pierce Mr Van Nispen's balloon every time: it really is an illusion to think that one day you can create a situation in which no choices need to be made by the police or the Public Prosecutor's Office for action. I also see that there are questions with the police. There's a far too high absenteeism in the police force. Then we can say: that's because it's all so badly arranged. But we can also think: we have a board of directors there and we also have a minister of police, who therefore have to deal with this issue. I tabled a motion on this last year. If you bring the absenteeism back to normal proportions, so from 7% to 5%, you'll be freeing about 1,200 agents, that's how we calculated. These are 1,200 agents who can support the overloaded agents Mr Van Nispen is referring to. That's what I'm trying to figure out. I knew you would come up with this question, so I did not have this issue in my speech, but by this way I can still put the question to the Minister: can he explain to me what has been done to reduce absenteeism?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u134	Every time I ask this question, I am surprised at the incredible lack of self-reflection in the VVD. 'Cause it's about the absenteeism with the police again: if you bring that down, you're gonna free up more cops. The question that should be asked is: why is there such a high absenteeism in the police? Maybe that's because the VVD overloaded the cops? I don't see much self-reflection again. I will make a very constructive proposal. The SP has tabled an amendment, with which we want to free 53 million for next year, and I realize that this is still too little, but unfortunately I could not find more money in the tight-knit budget to help the criminal justice chain a little bit, to invest in the police, the prosecutor's office and the judiciary. This is due to the under-exhaustment, because these ministers choose to give money back to the Ministry of Finance as of next year. I hope that Mr van Oosten has now looked at that amendment and that he will think very seriously about how the VVD can make up for what it has done in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u135	We shouldn't be pretending not to invest in the police or the state's attorney's office. We are dealing with the budget here. There's a lot of money going there. There is also extra investment in it. The Minister will report that to you in a moment. I agree with Mr Van Nispen that it may always be more........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That could be in the sphere of justice, education, care, development cooperation, defence, you name it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u136	Finally, very briefly, Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u137	Mr Van Oosten says that there is investment in the public prosecutor's office, but I hardly see it again. Hardly. If Mr Van Oosten can call me a concrete amount that will be invested in the public prosecutor's office in 2019, that is quite surprising, as the Minister has not been able to say so far. But I asked about the amendment. Will Mr Van Oosten seriously see if the VVD can support the SP's proposal to invest more in police, prosecutor's office and justice? As from next year, there will be a budget cut at the Ministry of Justice, for which I see no reason whatsoever.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u138	A brief response, Mr. Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u139	Of course I'm gonna read it. But I will not suggest here that I support it. You also know that if you are going to spend a euro for something that cannot be spent anywhere else. I make different choices than Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u140	I started to write very happy when Mr Van Oosten started his input. I wrote down "Rotterdam," "Bibob," "patser approach," "cybercrime," "drug labs," "cash money," "neighborhood parties." We also know by now that Mr Van Oosten made money as a smoke sausage salesman. You're gonna hear something at a time like this. But I also just missed a vision of the police organization an sich. In my contribution, I said that in the long term, this is not at all such a long-term issue of 5 000 FTEs in order to continue to carry out the current tasks. So I'm not asking for the 291 million invested, because we know that success number now. I ask Mr Van Oosten: does the VVD agree with my group that this minister should come up with a vision of growth so that we do not have another scenario of doom? Does the VVD agree with us that there should be a growth strategy setting out how to comply with 5,000 FTEs in the longer term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u141	Not to be silly, but I am referring to the 291 million that Mrs Helder herself is talking about. We shouldn't pretend that's just a sum. That's quite an amount. Yeah, well, that's gonna go down in the police organization, too. I also referred to a very specific proposal that I put forward last year. Thanks to Mr Van Nispen, I have now come back to that again. The question is: what are we doing to reduce absenteeism to normal proportions? You'll be playing almost 1,200, maybe 1,500 cops free. It comes very close to Mrs Helder's wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u142	Well, that's in no way the case. To be faint: playing the 1,200 fte is all very nice, but of course you can't first cause a problem and then think you're coming up with the solution. More cuts increased the challenge, as did absenteeism. So I do not share that with Mr Van Oosten at all. That 291 million will eventually get us 1,111 FTE. That's not even close. That's less than 25%. So I'm afraid that with the VVD at the helm we're still going to float towards such an ice shot and we're going to leak too. For all I care, we are going to pass on the question to the Minister: does he have a vision that says that 5 000 fte are needed, if the police are to continue to carry out its current tasks?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u143	Sorry, but if Mrs Helder wanted to put this question to the Minister, it would have been appropriate if she had asked the question herself during her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u144	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u145	Yes, Chairman, finally. Then Mr Van Oosten did not pay any attention at all during my first term, because that is what I started with. It was even on page one. I said: will Mr Van Oosten perhaps think along with this vision of growth? He won't. The VVD usually says: I ask the Minister. So let me think about it a little bit. Perhaps the VVD would like to pass on the request for an answer to that question to the Minister. So don't come to me and tell me I should've asked, because that's what I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u146	Then I do not have to do it again, because then the question already lies with the Minister. Well, let's just wait for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u147	Mrs Buitenweg, a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u148	Of course, there are a lot of issues on the agenda. I also understand very well that Mr Van Oosten cannot deal with everything. But I remember that his group chairman made a huge point in the General Reviews to deal with the problems in the disadvantaged areas. I'm sure you remember it too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u149	Yeah, I know what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u150	I know that a lot of mayors also say that this must be part of the undermining. I was hoping the VVD would come back to that. I will take one specific point out. Among other things, the VVD had suggested that they would do something to free women who were not allowed to work for their husbands. I thought: that's quite an interesting point. I would like to give the VVD spokesperson a chance to explain how he intends to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u151	Freeing women who are not allowed to work from their husbands seems to me to be a topic that is discussed, among other things, in the budget line integration. That is a subject that can be discussed in the Social Affairs budget. But at the end of the day I will not be told that I have not preached to put it just as chic on what has been discussed in the General Political Reviews. I think I've made some very targeted proposals. You won't allow me to repeat them again, Mr. Chairman, but there were quite a few............................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u152	Clear, Mr. Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u153	That also helps the women you're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u154	It's a little light-headed, isn't it? Women were very much included, also by the chairman of the VVD group, by constantly saying that it was precisely about women's rights and that action had to be taken so hard in those disadvantaged areas. I believe that there are very few proposals to ensure that these women can live freely. Perhaps that could be considered and perhaps some motions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u155	I'd be happy to. I look forward to your contribution, because it can only be that you take this issue with you. At least I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u156	I've been counting on you all by myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u157	Good. Perhaps I could ask you another question. Then we can still get somewhere together. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u158	Thank you, Mr. Van Oosten. I shall suspend the sitting until 8 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u159	We will continue with the discussion of the Justice and Security budget. I call Mr Azmani on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u160	Thank you, Madam President. The instability in the world leads to an unprecedented number of people looking for a better life. And that's understandable. At the same time, it is impossible to accommodate all these people in Europe or in our country. Our society simply can't handle that. A demographic growth in the Netherlands caused by immigration has a huge impact on our welfare state, for example, but also in our neighbourhoods. That is why we believe it is so important to control the flow of migration. But that's not the only reason. The human dramas on the Mediterranean Sea of the people with the boats are on our retina. Smugglers take advantage of their situation. And we need to put an end to that. Sitting still is not an option for the VVD. We must therefore focus on improving and making care in the region more sustainable. By providing protection close to home, we remove the need for migrants to come to Europe. In addition, it is also a condition for returning asylum seekers who come and continue to travel. Mr. Chairman. People can only be accommodated in the region if agreements are made with countries, just as we did with Turkey, in line with my plan of March 2015. This is very successful, with a decreased inflow of 97%. That is why I continue to insist on starting the conversation, including with African countries. What is the current state of affairs and what action is the European Union taking at the moment? And what role does the Secretary of State attach to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u161	Mr Azmani talks about shelter in his own region. I very much welcome that. I note now that some 97% of refugees are being taken care of in their own region. What percentage does Mr Azmani want?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u162	There are around 63.7 million refugees and displaced people worldwide. I do not think it is possible for all of them to come to Europe. Indeed, there are a number of countries where the arrival of refugees is very much being faced. Lebanon, for example, is such a country. One in four people living there is refugee, although they are not officially registered as refugees. But there are refugees in that country. That has a huge impact on that country. I actually think that the international community should feel a much greater responsibility to improve conditions there. I've said that before. These people are not, in part, looking for a way to move towards Europe. It is a question of improving the conditions there. And we did indeed see in 2015 that more than 60,000 asylum seekers arrived in the Netherlands. And if we hadn't done anything, it would have been 100,000 in 2016. This has an impact that the Netherlands cannot bear. That's what we've been able to see in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u163	I'm sorry, but I think I'm in another debate here. I asked a very simple question. At present 97% of the refugees in their own region are being taken care of. Mr Azmani says that this is a very good solution. I agree with him. My question to Mr Azmani is: what percentage should that be? So I repeat my question: what is the objective for you? Should that percentage be 99, or should it be 100?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u164	We're talking about shelter in our own region. Europe is also a region of its own. If we are faced with refugees in Europe, then Europe also has a responsibility to take care of them in its own region. But let's hope this doesn't happen. In principle, I want to go to about 100% in humane care in my own region. But I would also point out that Europe, and the Netherlands too, must be prepared to invite a number of people, a number of refugees who fall between shore and ship, to come to Europe, and that we must do so temporarily. I'll work that out later. I will tell you later what, in addition to my idea of receiving care in my own region, is my vision for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u165	Finally, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u166	I have often heard you talk about the vision of refugees, and I have heard you say that you are very concerned about the fate of those who drown. My question was quite simple. What percentage are you aiming for? I note that you say: I actually want 100% of refugees to stay in their own region. And you say: and every once in a while we invite a group to show symbolically that we still have a heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u167	This has nothing to do with symbolic or no heart. I think all refugees have a right to find a safe place as close as possible to the fireplace he leaves. I believe that this is not only a responsibility of the relevant part of the world. I think that is an international, common responsibility. However, I do not think that we should go so far as to ensure that refugees in Africa cannot have a secure basis which would force them to undertake such a journey with all the smugglers and so on, because the only safe place would be Europe. We must invest in it and be binding so that safe shelters are available on every continent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u168	Mr Azmani calls on the cabinet to conclude Turkey-like deals with African countries, as he says. Well, he's been to Tunisia himself recently. What are Mr Azmani's chances of making such a deal with a country such as Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco or Egypt? How much longer are we gonna pursue that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u169	That's the same as when I came up with my plan. No one believed in that at the time, but in the end we did and Turkey was willing to do that part. I expect North African countries to be able to do the same when we really take it seriously. But we also experience that, if we are not faced with the millions of asylum seekers at our borders, then I am talking about Europe's borders, and I think that the urgency is gone and people are not so quickly inclined to go from Europe with an official, somewhat larger deal towards those countries. Mr Van Ojik also noted that there was no request for such a deal with Tunisia, where we have both been, from Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u170	I wasn't there, was I, just to be clear? But is it true that the Tunisian Minister who is talking about this has also said to Minister Blok: forget it, we are not going to make such a deal with you? Is it true that he said that or isn't it true?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u171	He didn't see any room for something like this right now. I wouldn't have expected it any other way if a delegation from a country like the Netherlands was going to talk to a Deputy Minister for Social Affairs. I understand that point of view. I think it can be done if you want it seriously, because that country also has a huge interest in further stabilisation and economic growth. It could help that country further, it could help the region further, and it could also help us to prevent further destabilisation of countries in the region of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u172	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u173	I think: if Tunisia says no, Tunisia means no. I would advise Mr Azmani to think about other solutions and not systematically ignore the fact that all the countries we have approached now all give the same answer, namely: no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u174	Before I presented that plan in 2015, I have been thinking for a long time about different solutions. Then I came to the conclusion that there is really only one possibility. That means that you will not stand with your back to those countries, but that you will come to agreements with those countries. If you're gonna fight illegal immigration, you're gonna have to take out the incentives. Unfortunately, I have found that GroenLinks has not been willing, not even in the negotiations, to come to a government to take that responsibility. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u175	The VVD talks about reception in the region are of course not worth anything, because in the meantime the Rutte III cabinet breaks all the asylum and immigration records that exist. Last year, 235,000 migrants were admitted to the Netherlands. A record. I see Mr Azmani shaking no, but that is a very hard figure from the Central Bureau of Statistics...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u176	Yes, partly European migrants...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u177	Mr President, I thought I was speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u178	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u179	But perhaps Mr Azmani can clarify something if he wants to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u180	Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u181	Yes, that an important part of them are European migrants in the context of free movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u182	Yeah, but the asylum influx hasn't dried up much either. Regular migration also runs out, and regular migration is labour migration, which is partner and family migration: tens of thousands a year! That is the harsh reality, so stop talking about shelter in the region. But my question is, where do you draw the line? This cabinet is about to sign that UN migration pact, for example. That pact only calls for more migration. It's a strange text that says we need more migrant workers, more partner and family migrants.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u183	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u184	How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u185	I'll get to that later. That's exactly what my story says. I am critical of that, but I will come to that later, because I have quite a lot of questions to ask the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u186	I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u187	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u188	Mr. Chairman. If adequate reception has been achieved in safe countries in the region and the inflow to the Netherlands has dropped almost to zero, the country can also offer resettlement to relieve the burden on the region. As I said, the VVD believes that providing this protection to refugees from outside Europe should no longer be a right, but a favour. A favour we give to refugees to catch their breath and a favor we give to the region to relieve them. This is also in line with the March 2015 plan. In principle, according to the VVD, a three-year temporary residence permit is granted on invitation. Then one returns either to the country of origin, if it is safe again, or to the safe third country with real reception conditions. In exchange for these refugees, we can temporarily take in other refugees to catch their breath. Already when selecting resettlement in the camps, it should be made clear that only temporary stay in the Netherlands is possible. During the stay in the Netherlands, we are committed to providing handholds that allow refugees to resettle from a stronger starting position in their country of origin or their third country of residence. We are selective in our invitation policy. We are looking in particular at vulnerable minorities located in the refugee camps in the region. We are also looking at the extent to which, given the temporary nature of the stay, they can make their own in our country. After three years of residence, a refugee may opt for a right of residence for another purpose if all the conditions of that authorisation are met. Think, for example, of study or labor. This option can only be used by refugees who have been fully committed to actively participating in our society in those three years in the Netherlands, not only by understanding our society but also by demonstrating that they can be self-reliant in our society and after embracing our standards and values. Mr. Chairman. After expressing this view on the asylum and migration policy of the future, I now come to the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration. Let me make it clear that I am not immediately waiting for such documents. I always get the cynical feeling about these kinds of pieces: everyone does their puddle, even here in politics The Hague, but it stays the way it was, until there is another crisis and a need for action, as happened with the Turkey deal in the end. I have just had an exchange of views on this in an interrupting debate with Mr Van Ojik. I'd rather fix the roof when it's not hoisting. Agreements should now be made with African countries, and in this light I also weigh the United Nations document. The aim of this document is to set out a path to establish common principles with African countries, among others, in order to be able to take further steps. The title of the compact also includes the plea for safe, orderly and regulated migration. When reading the lyrics, I see positive but also negative leads. It begins very clearly with the remark in Articles 7 and 15 that the texts are not legally binding and that the sovereignty of countries to pursue their own migration policies is respected. Then you'd say, "Nothing's wrong." Yet the VVD is not 100% confident. That's why I'm asking the following questions. A: Does the Secretary of State see the risk that lower legal proceedings could lead to legal consequences for this pact? If so, how can this be prevented? And if not, why not? Two: can the Secretary of State comment on the differences with the Urgenda case? Three: can the Secretary of State confirm that there is nothing in the compact that ensures that the Netherlands has to do something else, that the Netherlands should implement policy or that in the future it will make it impossible for the Netherlands to strengthen policy further? Four: can the Secretary of State confirm that this pact has no other purpose than to serve a diplomatic purpose and that it is a means of addressing countries that do not take their share of responsibility for migration issues? Five: Can the Secretary of State confirm that the Netherlands can continue to focus on reducing migration, in line with the government's migration agenda? Six: I am not entirely clear to what extent a distinction is made between a legal migrant and an illegal migrant, the irregular migrant. Surely it is not possible for an illegal migrant to enrich our society and enable him to become a full member of society? I'd like a response to that. Seven: how does the Secretary of State view the provisions on foreign detention, whereas we want to broaden the scope for this in accordance with the government agreement? Eight: How does the Secretary of State view provisions regarding mutual respect for cultures and traditions? Is it not more desirable for legal migrants to acquire the culture of their country of residence? Nine: what is the state secretary's position on provisions on the positive promotion of migration in the media? Is this not a violation of the freedom of journalism to report on what it actually is? Mr. Chairman. I want clear and clear answers. Moreover, I do not want to detract from the positive points. They are really involved: this cooperation should be aimed at combating illegal migration and the pursuit of legal, desirable migration. This will address issues such as forced return, better border management, tackling smugglers, saving lives at sea and deportment. These are important points for the VVD. We also have to weigh in total what the effects are if you reject this as a country. After all, we need to have the same countries around the table to make agreements. In short, I am looking for the conviction that the document does not hinder us in our own direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u189	My question was about the previous part. I assume Mr Fritsma would like to ask a few questions about the compact, but if you will allow me, I would like to return to the second Azmani plan, which was just laid down here. I am always very careful when Mr Azmani comes up with a plan, because I think that is not being implemented. But with the first Azmani plan, that happened in the end. Anyway, you don't look like you want to hear all this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u190	Well, that's not so bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u191	I'm gonna ask my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u192	I'm all ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u193	You know what I don't quite understand, Madam President? Here's the spokesperson for the biggest government party. He lays down a plan for a completely new asylum system: asylum is no longer a right but a favour, just to take a breath; it can only be temporary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u194	So much for the summary. Now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u195	That was the summary. Then my question to Mr Azmani is: what are we going to do with this? Is this just for this debate? Or is the coalition agreement being broken open? Or should the Secretary of State design a completely different asylum system? What exactly is the purpose or meaning of this rather far-reaching proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u196	Mr Azmani. What exactly is the point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u197	Mr. Van Ojik knows me a little bit too. The intention is that I am not only concerned with today's politics, but that I also like to focus on tomorrow's day. I believe that Mr Van Ojik is also interested in this. Here I lay down the VVD's vision: how I see that future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u198	I am indeed very interested in the long-term vision of the VVD, but just to be clear: is this not meant for this cabinet period? Is this something that, at the earliest, let's say, goes in at the end of next year or as much sooner as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u199	In this cabinet period, for example, we have included in the government agreement an investigation to see if we can make adjustments to the Refugee Convention. The CDA believes that this is also highly desirable. I believe that the pressure, including international pressure, will become more severe in the coming years, in order to make adjustments to a treaty that was decided at the time, in a distant past, for other purposes and other reasons. There is also a different type of migration at the moment. I have a bit of a vision of how we look at migration, as in Mr Azarkan's response, which began with the first interruption. I also told you how I see this, with safe reception in my own region, that I am quite prepared to relieve burdens, that it should be temporary and that people who have done their best in this country could also have opportunities to enter another residence permit. As far as I am concerned, asylum migration is a temporary migration, which is regulated and legal. We prefer to have shelter in our own region, close to the countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u200	Mr Azmani has put a lot of questions to the cabinet about the UN migration pact, but I just want to know what Mr Azmani, the VVD Group, thinks about this. I assume you've read those 34 pages.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u201	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u202	Then you cannot insist that it is a good thing that the cabinet might endorse it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u203	You belong to a party that thinks she shouldn't be working with anyone. Then you solve the migration problem...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u204	Answer the question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u205	On your own, you can't solve the migration problem anyway. You really need other countries to do that. I've read it several times and figured it out. What are good passages? What are less good passages? What are bad passages? I'm gonna ask you a series of questions. For me, the most important thing is that it has no legal effect. I also know the case law in the Netherlands, so I have my concerns about that too. I think it is right for people to express their concerns about this, for you to express your concerns about it, for Mr Baudet to express those concerns and for others to express their concerns about it. I'm out of those worries, too. I just want a good answer from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u206	You want a good answer from the government. I want an answer from you, Mr. Azmani. Will the VVD approve of the government signing this dragon of an agreement? Yes or no? The VVD always talks about restrictions on immigration, but if the VVD even allows the cabinet to sign this agreement, then all of the VVD's words about restrictions on immigration are worth nothing at all and you are in no way to take seriously. So just say that this is a dragon of an agreement that the cabinet is not allowed to sign. If you don't, then the VVD is an even more worthless party than I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u207	I don't hear any questions in there. I think I am clear and clear about what I think. I'm not waiting for these pieces. I'm very critical. I understand the concerns. But if it has no legal effect at all, if it does not mean anything in that context, if some parts of it can be positive and others negative without it leading to policy expansion or to what we should do and if it is a prelude to going to countries to come to concrete agreements, then you have to consider it all. I share those concerns. If it does have legal effect, I don't think we should sign it. That is why I put these questions so absolutely to the government. I expect a firm answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u208	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u209	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman, because I'm getting a little tired of this twisting...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u210	Yeah, right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u211	... and of this crappy answer game, insofar as answers are given. Mr Azmani has said in the media that he is afraid that the judges in the Netherlands will still make use of this compact and that they will ensure that certain areas and matters are expanded again. So you have said in the media that this is a dangerous pact, so you may interpret that text of yours anyway, but in the meantime, when it comes down to it, you are still here in plenary to defend that the cabinet is going along with it. This is pure deception, Mr. Azmani. You can't...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u212	I think this is total nonsense! Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u213	You can't burn down that pact in the media and just like it here...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u214	You've made your point, Mr. Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u215	...that the cabinet signs that pact. It's unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u216	I think Mr Fritsma simply doesn't want to hear what I'm saying here, because that's the same as what he's listing there. I am indeed concerned that the low case law can simply make use of this. That's why I...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u217	No, no, no, Mr Fritsma! Proceed, Mr Azmani.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u218	I always find it remarkable that there are parties who are all asking questions to the cabinet, but who have already finished their judgment and who already have room motions. I think we've already voted on two motions not to sign that thing. Let's ask the questions first. Let's start the debate with the cabinet. I think we're doing it right here in this house. And then you come to a decision and a judgment. With me, it's very clear and clear. I'm very critical. I'm not so much into these documents. I also think it is a lot of hassle, because in the end it is about people acting only when there is actually a crisis. Then it's finally, do it. But that is without prejudice to my concerns about the legal commitment and the legal consequences. I'll address them here with a series of questions. And I do not hear about a number of other aspects, such as the distinction between legal and illegal migrants. I don't think that's clear in the compact. It's like we're all gonna offer illegal migrants facilities. It seems completely unacceptable to me that we should do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u219	For the sake of clarity, did I just hear Mr Azmani say that if this compact can have legally binding consequences for the Netherlands, we should not sign it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u220	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u221	So if in any other way it can be made plausible that the Marrakech immigration pact can bind the Netherlands in any way, will the VVD vote against it, will the VVD no longer support it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u222	Yes, if it is legally binding and if it is to lead to policy expansion on the basis of all those documents, we are not signing it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u223	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u224	Is Mr Azmani aware that countries such as Austria, the United States, Hungary, Poland and this evening, as well as many other countries, have said: wait a minute, this creates a form of soft law which will gradually be implemented, which will put pressure on us and make it impossible to control our borders itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u225	Yeah, I'm aware of that, too, because you can already see those countries dropping out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u226	Is he also aware that Frits Bolkestein, his own party mate, argued exactly the same thing earlier today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u227	Well, he addresses concerns, and I address those concerns here, too. I respect Mr Bolkestein...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u228	Then I'll go to Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u229	He says, "Don't sign." And it would adorn you and your party to say tonight: do not sign!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u230	In my view, we are in a debate with the government and the government still has to respond to the 100 questions put by Mr Baudet. I always think it is nice as a parliamentarians, when he has questions about something, first waits for the answers and then comes to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u231	This is going to be a repeat of moves. I'm going to see Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u232	I think I have also heard Mr Azmani assure us a few times that it has no legally binding status. That's right, of course, because that's what it says literally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u233	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u234	But how does that relate to the article at the end, Article 41, in which the signatories commit themselves to anchor the agreements contained in that pact, in their own laws and regulations? They can do this in their own way, but that means that there is a legal link. You're kept to anchor that in your own laws and regulations. That's your signature, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u235	I interpret that more as intentions that are expressed to actually link actions to what is agreed. But this follows Article 7 and Article 15, and that is what it actually starts with, which states that it is absolutely not legally binding and that the countries themselves have the sovereignty to set up their migration policies. That's what you're gonna have to put up with. That's why I'm asking my questions. I would also like to point out that I have doubts about the legal effect. And I am not even talking about the provision you are referring to, because I think it is open to several interpretations; I am also saying that as a lawyer. But from my experience with the lower case law here in the Netherlands I ask to what extent you can involve these documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u236	I agree. That is the risk of soft law, which turns out to be a solid, tough piece of legislation. However, I am very curious about the alternative interpretation of the article in which the signatories commit themselves to anchoring the agreed measures in their own laws and regulations. That's what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u237	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u238	And that's more than an intention. You're just gonna commit to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u239	Well, I don't even think there's gonna be a signature either. I think it will be adopted after a vote. That's how you connect to what you've agreed to. You commit that if you have anything else to do, you'll also turn that into action. Look at the African countries that are participating; they have a lot to do. There is an element to which we are already bound on the basis of our EU law. Our EU law goes even further than what is in the Pact. But there are parts in it that don't make me happy either. That is why I would also like to know from this government to what extent this has legal consequences. As far as I am concerned, therefore, this should not lead to policy expansion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u240	Proceed, Mr Azmani.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u241	That's what I'm asking the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u242	Mr President, may I ask another final question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u243	A very short one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u244	Colleagues sometimes get the opportunity to ask a third or a fourth follow-up question. I only need one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u245	Yes, you are always very skittish with interruptions, but some colleagues are really setting a bad example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u246	Yeah, that's why I'm gonna limit myself to one follow-up question. Then I can be the nicest boy in the class again. There are also elements in the Pact, as Mr Azmani himself points out, which do lead to a broadening of policies if they are implemented. I'm gonna keep hammering at that point anyway. If this is signed, we also commit ourselves to the implementation of those expanding articles. I would like to draw Mr Azmani's attention to this. I ask him to include that in his deliberations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u247	Yes, of course I weigh everything, so also that provision. That's how I'm in it. I understand very well where Mr Bishop comes from and what concerns he has about this. I share those concerns with Mr Bishop. It is not for nothing that I say that this should not lead to policy-expanding proposals. I'm even saying I'm going further. Nor do I think that we should not be able to tighten up our policies in the future because this thing is being adopted. So I share that and await the answers of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u248	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u249	Then I come to another subject, which I raised last year. In addition to migrants fleeing war, there are also migrants who have less good intentions. I am not talking about economic migrants, but about migrants who even pose security risks. I mean, among other things, alleged IS fighters. Last year I discussed this in detail during the budget, particularly in the screening of asylum seekers from Syria in connection with jihadist motives or alleged war crimes. I can imagine that when permits have been granted, it will not then be possible, on the basis of updated intelligence information, to see if anyone has done bad things, which should have consequences for the right of residence. We should not be an inn for war criminals. Syrian cases would be reviewed at my request. My question is, of course, when can the Chamber expect the results of this? We can see that IS in Syria has lost a lot of ground in recent years. Many refugees have returned home. That they return shows that the security situation in parts of the country is improving. My expectation is also that we will have to review Syria's country policy in the coming period, so that Syrians from our country should also return. I think that also applies to Eritrea. Most people may not expect that at the moment, but if you look at the security situation there, the changed situation in Ethiopia and the relationship between Ethiopia and Eritrea, I think that the policy should be changed to the future and that this has consequences for Eritreans who currently have a temporary residence permit here. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to draw up a new notice of office for both countries or to ask for a new notice of office on these two countries. I would point out that there is a need for much more detailed consideration of return options. Mr. Chairman. The next point is that the VVD believes that there should be continued attention to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u250	At the previous point, Mr Voordewind?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u251	That is right, Mr President, about Syria and the forced return, because that is what Mr Azmani is referring to. Can Mr Azmani mention a number of countries which are considering this or who are already forced to send Syrians back?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u252	No, not at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u253	Then why does Mr Azmani think it's about time? He says that many refugees are already returning to Syria. Can he name numbers? There are three million refugees in Turkey. There's a lot of people in Lebanon. I spoke to people from Lebanon yesterday. People are going back very slowly, but they are also returning to Lebanon because they have to build their homes slowly. What's with the numbers? Can Mr Azmani mention numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u254	Yes, I can. Last year thousands went that way again. We have had a little debate here. I think it is important that, as a parliament, but also as a country, we do expectation management, also for people who have just received a residence permit because they are from Syria. I believe that people should be prepared to have a temporary right of residence here for five years in principle. If the situation changes, this also means that people have to return. That is why I think it is important that we ask for a statement of office to see whether the situation is improving and whether this is a reason for safe stay in Syria. This may not apply immediately to all Syrian asylum seekers, but perhaps to certain groups that may have a real safe stay in a particular part of Syria. It is a matter of time, I say to Mr Voordewind. I love that people are prepared for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u255	Can I assume that Mr Azmani believes that the existing rights that we recognise still apply? If people are here for five years, they are eligible for a permanent residence permit. People who have been here for five years are often Syrians. I assume he means that these rights will stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u256	If people apply for an indefinite residence permit after five years and are granted it does not apply to them at the moment. No, I didn't. Mr. Chairman. The next point is the approach to harassing asylum seekers. There must be continued attention to this. We've been here almost a year since the establishment of the Ebtls. These are the additional guidance and monitoring locations for troublesome asylum seekers. I myself am very pleased with the progress, especially in view of the recent reports from Kampen, Ter Apel and Rotterdam. There is an increase in crime because of criminal asylum seekers. I am therefore satisfied with last week's letter from the Secretary of State on the handling of nuisances, on the progress of the ebtl and also on the answers to the questions I have put to the House. It is a good thing that the placement opportunities and target groups are extended so that the occupation in the ebtl's can increase. The VVD is also pleased that the Secretary of State is working on my previous recommendations for the ebtl's, because I have visited both of them. The seriousness of the problems of the ebtl residents demonstrates, on the one hand, the importance of the existence of the ebtls, but, on the other hand, highlights the need to take account of the impact on staff. I would also like to urge the Secretary of State to ensure that rejected applications from people from safe countries are not automatically made, because they are mainly people from safe countries, because they are no longer an automatic Dublin claim, which often leads to longer stays, longer decision-making times and so on. In the end, it appears that one in five or one in four cases actually affectes a transfer to another EU Member State by accelerating the applications themselves as manifestly unfounded. Apart from that Dublin claim, I think we are saving reception capacity and we are also deterring applications from safe people in our country. The balance must always be: where is the greatest chance of a quick departure? My question to the Secretary of State is how he looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u257	I thought that Mr Azmani quickly made a leap away from the oppressive asylum seekers. He was just happy, I understood. I'm not happy at all. I do not understand on the basis of which Mr Azmani is happy when we look at the messages. The people are still not forced inside. They're just still being released into our village communities. The COA still has the policy that people who behave badly outside get twice a warning and then are not allowed in, but have to go outside. So why don't you explain where that joy comes from?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u258	It was about the ebtl's, because that's the solution. I believe that Mrs Van Toorenburg would also like the shopkeepers and the people in the districts of Kampen, Ter Apel and Rotterdam not to be confronted with criminal asylum seekers. That's what I came up with back then. Can we not have a so-called "aso-azc" in which people are restricted or banned? They won't be able to get into the center and into the neighborhoods. Then we give these people a little cold bath water, because I'd rather have them out of the country today than tomorrow. I believe that Mrs Van Toorenburg is also realistic and know that we cannot in all cases manage to expel someone immediately. That means you put them in an ebtl. I would like to say that I would have liked to have suspended the numbers. I do not think Rotterdam should release them. I think those people in the ebtl belong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u259	And what's an ebtl?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u260	Sorry, extra secure surveillance location. I've called this aso-azc in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u261	Let's keep calling it an aso-azc. I still do not understand why Mr Azmani is pleased when the conclusion is that the people cannot be forced into the house. Shouldn't we go and figure out a solution so we can? These people have to come forward and have some supervision. But if they don't feel like it, they'll just go away eventually. They'll stay in the neighborhood and stuff everything. That undermines the support for these aso-azc's. The mayors aren't saying for nothing that they actually want to be able to go through with it. They want people to go there faster. We clearly agree on that. The people must therefore actually stay in there. Does the VVD agree with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u262	It's about the ebtl's. They're in Hoogeveen and Amsterdam. I do not know whether Mrs Van Toorenburg has visited both of them, but there you will hear other stories when it comes to bans on areas and restrictions on areas. When you read the letter, you see that on page 7, I believe in the first paragraph, it says that the COA's location managers are extremely happy with the ebtl's, because this leads to fewer incidents on the regular azc's. Besides, they can finally make consequences for behavior that's not okay. If it's criminal behavior, you can put people in jail. Let that also be clear and clear. But these are people sitting in the middle a little bit, the grey area, which I think should be made cold and which I prefer to see them leave today rather than leave tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u263	Finally, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u264	I think the VVD is yelling a little too quickly about what's been designed here. I think this is a good step, that it is necessary, but we are far from there. When I talk to the people, they think they should be forced to stay inside. I think we have something to do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u265	I think so, indeed. I'd like to think about how that's possible. If there are criminal cases, it's easier. If it's not criminal, it's a lot harder. We cannot put everyone in foreign detention, but we can look at possibilities, because our neighbourhoods should not suffer from this. I also do not think it is possible for people to be kicked out of azc's and then somewhere in Rotterdam. We'll have to put them in ebtl's. I applaud the fact that the development of the ebtl's is moving in the right direction. That's my joy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u266	You look so serious, Mr. Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u267	Yeah, that's not for me. If Mr Azmani doesn't want to scare away viewers, I think he should speak of extra-security institutions and not of ebtl's, because nobody really follows that, but that's just a tip. Let's talk about these procedures. In my opinion, we think that they need to be made much faster, so that people can be clear quickly. As far as I am concerned, if it is not a matter of trial, it is a matter of children, of which we must also prevent them from being in uncertainty here for years. Now the IND, which plays an important role in this, has been cut by as much as EUR 36 million. Does Mr Azmani think that is a bad thing too? Surely we need to ensure sufficient capacity and therefore sufficient resources to ensure that these procedures are dealt with quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u268	A brief response, Mr. Azmani.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u269	My experience with the IND shows that capacity fluctuates and depends on estimates being adjusted in a year. The spring note looks at the forecast, because it is very fluctuating. The funding of the IND organisation is based on the number of expected applications. If you look at the decline in the number of asylum applications, it makes sense to adjust downwards, but we are seeing another plus or an increase in the last few months, so that again has consequences for the next estimate, I estimate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u270	That's right, but then we can establish that the system is pretty shaky. We now find that the IND has too little capacity. We have a lot of asylum applications.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u271	We're short of people. There's a lot of vacancies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u272	That's right. I have just received a motion from myself, which you also supported. That's great. I wanted to go a step further. Let's help the IND with some extra resources. With Mr Van Ojik I am working on an amendment to arrange some extra money. I would like to say to Mr Azmani: put your money where your mouth is, support that amendment, if you are serious about speeding up those procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u273	Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u274	I'd like another response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u275	I will look at the amendment, but I would also like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Extra money is not always a solution. You can also rearrange or reprioritize in a process; what do you do, what don't you do. There are also steps to be taken. I look forward to the amendment with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u276	Mr Fritsma, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u277	A word about those aso-azc's, which Mr Azmani calls a huge success. Let's take a look at the facts that came from the cabinet itself. Of the 100 asylum seekers who are housed there, 80 have disappeared into illegality again. What makes you think these aso-azc's are a success? It's a very expensive fiasco, according to government figures. The cabinet itself has said that we are getting a very small portion back to the countries of origin and then there is also a part that gets a residence permit. Why are you so successful, Mr. Azmani? It's a very expensive fiasco.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u278	Because I find that there are far fewer incidents on the regular azc's, and that the people who have to do the work within the COA, are very happy with it. I've spoken to people from regular azc's, but also people from the COA who work on the ebtl's. So I would say to Mr Fritsma: when you do those work visits, you hear those stories and you hear those experiences. That often tells me more than just a letter in the Chamber. And that people eventually leave an azc and no longer wait for an asylum procedure, and we do not know where they are staying, is also a fact. But that has been a fact for many years, even when it comes to ordinary procedures. I've indicated we're cold in the bathwater. This means that these people are no longer in the shelter, no longer following procedures in this country and probably already far away in another country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u279	Mr. Fritsma, a really short question. And that also applies to the answer: that too must be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u280	Again, out of the 100 people who are housed in those aso-azc's, 80 simply disappear back into illegality. Some of them get a residence permit. I would like to hear the opinion of the VVD on that part of the residence permit. What makes you think that dealing with harassing asylum seekers is a major success if even asylum seekers who have been in prison for five months can still just collect an asylum permit? What makes you say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u281	Now Mr Fritsma is trying to connect two dossiers. Well, someone, a single person, who gets a residence permit, that could be country policy. A situation in a country can change, which makes you kept to give a residence permit. I'd rather not see that either. There's talk of a few. Perhaps that is a good question for the Secretary of State, also to explain why a residence permit was chosen in this case. He could not say anything about an individual case, but rather something in general. But I can imagine that the situation in a country has changed, and that you are then held to grant such a residence permit. I'd rather you didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u282	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u283	Yes, finally and in conclusion, Mr. Chairman. We have expensive aso-azc's, which almost nobody's in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u284	That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u285	Of the 100 people who are housed there, 80 have disappeared into illegality again. In the meantime, part of the asylum seekers also get a residence permit. And the VVD thinks this is a huge success. Well, then we know exactly what the VVD means!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u286	I would like to invite Mr Fritsma again to make some work visits. Then Mr Fritsma will hear himself from the staff, from people who do this work every day on behalf of all of us, on behalf of our society, to ensure that society becomes a bit safer. Then I would like to hear from you the first constructive proposal to ensure that we are rid of these troublemakers. I have not yet been able to hear a constructive proposal from the PVV group. Well, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u287	Let's talk about the Marrakech immigration pact. I hear Mr Azmani say: if it turns out to be binding, or if it will have legal consequences for the Netherlands, then at least do not sign it. But why would you even want to sign? You say that it has all kinds of positive consequences, but at the same time you say that you want to sign it only if it is not binding in any way. What positive consequences could it have if it is not binding?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u288	Well, if there are elements like return policy, border management, tackling human trafficking, and you do this with all the other countries in the world. Then you can lay down that responsibility there as a diplomatic document, and remind other countries that they have to accept their nationals, that human trafficking must be tackled, that they must have proper procedures. That's what you're sitting at a table with. If you think that all the way, you're gonna stand there with your back to it. If you really want to achieve something on migration, you will eventually have to work together; I indicated that earlier this evening. But I agree with Mr Baudet that, if it has a legal effect, we do not have to sign it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u289	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u290	So just a little bit more: Azmani says it has no legal effect in the ideal case, but we do sign it, to be able to hold African countries to taking back migrants and so on. Is that about his reasoning?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u291	I think the reasoning is that I have a lot of questions to this cabinet, that I want a firm answer to that, and that I am concerned about this text. As far as I am concerned, we do not need this text at all, but it is too easy to say that we are turning our backs on it, we have nothing to do with Africa or with other countries. I mean, a plea to promote a nexit in the Netherlands, for example, to leave the European Union, is not helping either. As a result, a solution to the issue of migration is not coming any closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u292	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u293	I just heard Mr Azmani say: I have nothing with this text. Did I hear that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u294	Yes, I have nothing with these texts myself, because I do not believe that documents with such texts ultimately lead to action. My experience of controlling and combating migration has so far been that action is being taken at the time of urgency. Then I see the international community acting. See for example the Turkey deal in 2015. Nothing is happening at the moment; see Mr Van Ojik's question on Tunisia. Europe does not put forward a proposal because it is a bit difficult for Europe. Some people might not want a deal with Tunisia...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u295	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u296	... because they don't see the urgency right now. I'm saying, I think you should fix the roof the moment it doesn't choke yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u297	Mr. Azmani, proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u298	Apologies, Madam President. You can see that I am passionate about the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u299	Yeah, I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u300	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u301	No, Mr. Baudet. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u302	I come to another subject, the discretion of the Secretary of State. The events of recent months have strengthened my view that we need to review this competence. If we have properly designed the asylum application process and careful decision is taken, then any need to change decisions afterwards will cease. Everyone has a right to clarity. We do not give them by leaving holes open which may lead to a stay or other false hope. This applies to pardon schemes, but also to the use of discretionary powers. It is not fair to those who do comply with the judgments and who do comply with their legal obligation to leave. It is also not fair to our society, which wants to provide a place for some real refugees, but expects us to decide quickly on who is entitled to stay and who is not. No one has anything to do with training, hassle and eventually facing pathetic cases. People have chosen to come to the Netherlands and it is also their responsibility to leave again if they are not allowed to stay. This responsibility must not be shifted away from society. If distressing circumstances are to be taken into account, this must already be taken into account in the asylum procedure. The IND should also be able to carry out an assessment of distress following a rejected asylum application. The law also offers all the possibilities to set this up in this way. I'm asking the Secretary of State for a reflection. If you decide with regard to the matter and quickly, then this medicine is no longer necessary afterwards, is it not? Or do we maintain the situation that illegal residence pays in the long run because social and often political pressure increases itself? Do we want to maintain a system in which a political director has to make difficult choices and is constantly addressed to the public, but cannot explain in public how he or she has made this choice? At least the VVD doesn't want that. In a rule of law, the final judgment lies with the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u303	How far along are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u304	That was this subject. I'm guessing that's what interrupts come up. But I have another piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u305	I suggest you finish that piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u306	Yeah? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. In addition to asylum migration, there will always be economic migration. That is why I have already argued in my 2015 plan that, in addition to a fundamental review of asylum migration policy, we should also seek a fundamental review of the regular economic migration policy. Economic migration is temporary migration as far as the VVD is concerned. In order to meet the pressure on European countries that are now using asylum-related migration as an inappropriate means of addressing, for example, the ageing problem, regular migration policies will also need to be reviewed. The review should change the circular nature and exclude economic migrants from social security in the Netherlands. All EU Member States should have the same system, within which individual Member States can implement and regulate migration to their countries, from a demand-driven migration model to a hybrid migration model, which is a combination of a point system and a system where employers can attract migrants themselves. A point system contains buttons that can be turned by the government. Member States can thus attract migrants who are currently in need in a Member State on the basis of points allocation to buttons such as job supply, level of education, language skills, work experience or origin. This creates a legal way for the migrant to work temporarily and gain experience, which ultimately benefits him when he returns to the country of origin. I have placed my hopes on this Secretary of State to take steps on this under-utilised part of migration policy. Our current knowledge migrants scheme is more progressive than the European Blue Card scheme, but to be honest, it is still far too conservative when you look at other countries in the world, such as Australia. The European Commission's new plans for the revision of the Blue Card scheme are still far from there as far as the VVD is concerned. The final question is, therefore, what are the ambitions of this Secretary of State for this important part of migration policy? Now we can go to the interruptions and then I'll come to a conclusion. Or do you want to go first? Yeah? I'm coming to an end now, Mr. Chairman. I see it as a clean task, and I sincerely believe it is to protect our country with all our achievements, freedoms and prosperity, so that we pass our country on to our children just as beautifully as our ancestors. This can only go hand in hand with a strong migration policy that ensures control of who enters our country, as much reception as possible in our own region, and clear, faster procedures and clear consequences when an application is not met. As I started: sitting still is not an option for me and our party, the VVD. Thinking it'll all work out on its own and that migration isn't a problem, doesn't solve anything. But screaming on the sidelines, which is no good without being willing to put your hands out, doesn't get us any further. We need to retake control further. We will continue to make proposals as VVDs, however controversial they may seem, to get there, as you have been used to us in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u307	Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u308	I'm putting my hand out to Mr Azmani. Nor do I like randomness in the asylum system. So if we can close the holes, as Mr Azmani calls them, in the asylum system, that's what I'm for. Then I would also like to remove the arbitrariness so that we need as little discretionary powers as possible. But that's gonna require an outstretched hand. Where we often see the harrowing is in children, minorities and the Ihbtqi community. This therefore calls for legislation to be adapted. That is one of the reasons why GroenLinks and I have tabled an initiative law to see how we can better anchor and change children's rights, precisely in order to avoid the arbitrariness of discretionary powers. Are you therefore willing to think with us...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u309	Is Mr Azmani prepared...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u310	Through the President, my question to Mr Azmani is: are you prepared to take an active and genuine part in changing asylum policy in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u311	Mrs Kuik knows me as a constructive MP. So I will also assess the initiative proposal on the merits. Without doing anything about the legislative proposal, I would point out that when it comes to the interests of the child and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, they are already enshrined and reflected in the migration policy we are pursuing. We can perhaps come to something where we ensure that these distressing cases are assessed prematurely and preferably already in the application procedure and at least in the final judgment of the judge. I think we can watch that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u312	That is what I am going to hold Mr Azmani to and then I really expect a hand out. It can't be all talk 'cause that doesn't fill any holes. It can't just be with virtual boxing gloves that you then float in the face of coalition partners. That is why it is extremely important that we all discuss the issue of children's and minorities' rights in order to see what you can do to close the gaps that we are really seeing in asylum legislation. So I am happy to keep Mr Azmani's word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u313	I'll look constructively and I'll review the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u314	I have a little difficulty with the way in which Mr Azmani indicates how discretion has been exercised. Is it random? Do we have a secretary of state who puts his thumb up or down like some kind of caesar? Or does Mr Azmani agree with me that it is an outlet at the time when there is distress, in the sense that, even if it is legally possible, it has to meet certain keys? It is very annoying and it is actually a bit populist to write large pages in De Telegraaf about a system that is not recognized at all by the people who work with it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u315	I don't write the pages in a newspaper. Apart from that, I sincerely believe that I do not think it is appropriate in a rule of law that we have given such authority to a political director. I don't care what political colour it is and whether it's a man or a woman. In this case, it is this Secretary of State. But whoever's sitting there, I don't think it's appropriate that you give someone a power, after a final judgment, to look at a case like that again, where such a person can't explain why he's making a choice in such a case. I think so, too... I'm a little longer in my answer, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u316	You're always long in your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u317	Because you have a back door, there's less use of that front door in the pre-stage. It is thought that there may be some harrowing aspects, but the Secretary of State or the Minister is looking at them at the end of the procedure. So I'd rather have this secured in front of the asylum application process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u318	Period! Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u319	I actually think that Mr Azmani is doing it again: pretending that some sort of political judgment is being made by a Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u320	No, I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u321	This Secretary of State is the last to look at a file submitted to him by the IND, because the IND itself indicates that there is a particular distress, for example a changed circumstance, which means that you cannot actually say that someone still needs to be deported. I agree, but if it becomes a political game, it is dangerous. Then it's gonna be a toy ball here in the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u322	Mr. Chairman. It's not just the IND...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u323	Mr. Azmani, just a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u324	I'd like to have a little chat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u325	... and Mrs Van Toorenburg knows that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u326	Mr. Azmani! I call Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u327	What is happening now is that an image is being set up as if we have some sort of caesar sitting here that we have to take away power, whereas that is not at all the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u328	No, I think that's an incorrect picture too. That's not what I'm saying. I want to fight that image, too. I have every confidence in this Secretary of State that he's doing the right thing. That's what I had in the last Secretary of State. Only I think it's a big deal to have to give it to a ruler at a time when such a ruler is not allowed to explain anything, whereas the reason you come to such a decision has quite a lot of impact on society. Then I'd rather you put that down with a judge who gives a final judgment. And I think that distressing aspects and circumstances should be taken into account in the procedure until there is an irrevocable ruling that someone should leave the country. And not after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u329	Finally, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u330	Nevertheless, Mr Azmani once again pretends to be some kind of plaything, which is also not being held accountable. It's all images that don't match this discretionary power. And if we do not have it anymore, and there is going to be an extremely poignant situation, then I would like to see how much pressure is being put on politics to think of something that will help us to resolve this poignant situation. And then I want to see Mr Azmani, but then he's probably in Brussels and he's like, "Oh, what have I done?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u331	That's not true at all. This is not something we have had in this system for many years. I simply think that we need to look at harrowing aspects in good time. You shouldn't do that at the end. And it's not like the IND is signaling either. Mrs Van Toorenburg knows that very well, but she does not indicate that. Many groups are in the process of sending letters and so on. Political leaders in the country who are confronted with this and find it difficult not to do something also send letters. It's unclear what's going on. And I completely assume that all honour and conscience will be dealt with. But you know how it is. I don't really have to say that anymore. Politics also tries to get involved: perhaps not as a politician, but as a person you try to do business. I find that all very undesirable. I simply think that we should look at the procedure at the front and be careful, with regard to the matter, and therefore look a little further than just looking at what the laws and regulations indicate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u332	Brief question from Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u333	The problem is not only the existence of this discretionary power, but in particular the problem is that the VVD is always providing State Secretary who uses it too often. That's not an obligation, Mr. Azmani. So that arbitrariness you're talking about is maintained by VVD Secretary of State. The VVD apparently wants to restrict the Secretary of State, so my question is: how will the VVD ensure that this is achieved? What are you going to do in a coalition to settle this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u334	I'll put the questions to the Secretary of State. I hope to hear his reflection on this subject. He now also has experiences with what this means. And I think that in the future we would do better to arrange it in a different way, where it is purer and where the judge finally gives the final judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u335	You are indeed asking the questions, and your coalition partners have already answered: this proposal from you is not going to make it. I actually think it's getting a little sad, because you're standing here again with a blank. You have nothing to say in the coalition. You're taking it again as a sweet cake that your proposal is not going through. And then you'll be standing here for the umpteenth time with a blank. I would actually feel sorry for the VVD group, if it were not for the Dutch citizen always paying such a high price for your powerlessness and your incompetence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u336	I cast this far from me. Any blanks? I'd say give you a series of examples of those blanks. Yes, my proposals are often a bit controversial at first. Later it will turn out that you will see that other parties also embrace them. I think we have seen something of this in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u337	The question is, of course, what we have actually been listening to in the last hour. Mr Azmani, spokesperson of the largest government party, wants a different asylum system. It's not a right anymore. It's a favor. He wants to send refugees back to Syria and Eritrea. He wants to abolish discretionary power. He doesn't want a permanent stay anymore. He wants a temporary stay. He would like to amend the Refugee Convention for this purpose if necessary. Are these all concrete proposals from the spokesperson of the largest government party, or is it an attempt to keep a bit of a right-wing story while in fact supporting a moderate policy? What have we been listening to? What can we expect from Mr Azmani on all these points, which he has raised in the last hour?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u338	I have put concrete questions to the cabinet on many of these issues. I await the answers, for example when it comes to the reports on the two countries mentioned. I also indicated at the beginning that it starts with vision. I am not only concerned with today's politics, but also with tomorrow's politics, so what we, as a VVD, think is going to look like in the future. I'm making some concrete proposals. I also note that some proposals are not immediately commented positively. You know me; I do. I'm one of those guys who's just gonna row through. I hope that people will eventually see that the way we do it now is not the most pure one, for example when it comes to discretionary powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u339	But it's too easy to say that you know me a little bit, that's what I am, that's what I do often do. That sounds very domestic, but it's not very political. I think we can expect a little more from the spokesperson of the largest government party if he is behind the chair for more than an hour. He can't do anything about that himself, because we're all asking him questions. Mr Baudet, who is standing next to me, says that we are asking him good questions. Well, at least that applies to some of the questions, I'd like to say. I think that after this hour we can ask Mr Azmani exactly what the political significance of all these questions is. Is he a representative of the people who tells the cabinet that it has to be completely different: Secretary of State, you are completely on the wrong road? Or does he say, no, I actually support the policy? Although this policy is at odds with almost everything he has said here tonight, he simply supports it and says: I have a vision, which perhaps in the year 2000 and so much, once, is ever put into practice by someone? We'll know what we're up to. Or is it about the concrete policy of this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u340	No, there are subjects in it that are a little more long-term, I think. But yes, that's what we said in the 2015 plan and in 2016 it was a fact. So I like to throw a stone into the pond when it comes to discretion. Mrs. Kuik already reached out to me. I think that's constructive; that's how I know her a little bit. I'm also constructively oriented myself. Let's see how far we get on those subjects. In a year's time, perhaps I won't be here myself, but then there will be a good colleague of mine in the budget debate, who will see how far we have come with the proposals that I have now made. I believe that the proposal I made to ask for statements of office on Syria and Eritrea is very concrete. The same goes for the ebtl's, which I've been concerned about. At first they thought that was weird, because they were aso-azc's. Well, there are now two ebtl's in the country. So you do not have to say to me that my proposals are not being implemented, because those proposals are being implemented. But, yes, some proposals are controversial. It's only a matter of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u341	I doubt who stood before, Mr Azarkan or Mr Grothuizen. I hear it was Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u342	In addition to Mr Van Ojik's words, it is also unknown to me whether Mr Azmani sees this as a kind of living room session of the VVD, or whether we are dealing here with the budget of Security and Justice for next year. I note that every week a test balloon is launched by the VVD. If we attach all those test balloons to the building, we'll all ascend. Like Mr. Van Ojik, I just don't know what to do with it. I note, however, that with that plan, which he did write down in chocolate letters in De Telegraaf, he removed some voters from the PVV and I think that was it. 'Cause Mr. Azmani says goodbye and that's it. So nice, those reflections, and nice, those test balloons, but we can't do anything with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u343	Nice, Mr. Chairman, these political frames. I think this is what people in this country are not waiting for, looking at Parliament. If there are just political frames on it, there are test balloons. People are also concerned about what migration entails when it comes to uncontrolled numbers. People want to offer a place for real refugees, maybe a temporary one. But what people are not waiting for are procedures that take longer because we have certain elements in that piece of policy. Well, I'll come up with a proposition. I know that it is not going to resonate immediately, but I do think that we should go that way if we are to have rapid and timely procedures too, if we are to clarify where they are and also satisfy society. The point is that when people come here, they need to be clear quickly and that society is not confronted with people who have very long procedures and are therefore pathetic. That these images are brought into society, no one is waiting for them. That's our job. And it doesn't help in Parliament to put political frames on it, of: oh, it's a balloon. I hear that every once in a while. Well, funny thing, there we have politics again, the VVD has created a test balloon. I'm serious. I don't think it's fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u344	It's that gentleman over there who's giving that interview.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u345	Don't point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u346	I state that it is Mr Azmani and I point out to him in a proper manner. In my view, it is Mr Azmani who has raised expectations, namely that the discretionary power as far as he is concerned can simply be put in the garbage can. The practice is that the coalition partners, his supporters in the cabinet, have said: that is simply not going to happen. So you're just kidding around here. Mr. Azmani fools around, launches something nice and does it nice at De Telegraaf. He's stealing some people from the PVV. And then you know it's just not gonna happen. We're here on next year's budget, not test balloons, Mr. Azmani.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u347	This is a repeat of moves. This is just bullshit. I have also put specific questions to the cabinet on this subject. One step at a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u348	That's right, it's a repeat. Then I'll go to Mr. Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u349	Like Mrs. Kuik, I like to be constructive. In my opinion, Mr Azmani said something interesting, namely that it would be good to take greater account of distress in the asylum procedure, in the IND and in the courts. I think that's an interesting thought. However, it raises the question to me: what are you doing with the people who have gone through your procedure, for example, who have been rejected, are still in the Netherlands, but where that distress test did not take place in that procedure? Is Mr Azmani prepared to look at that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u350	Yeah, I'm willing to look into business. But in principle, if they come out of a procedure, people can still call for distress. As far as I am concerned, these are new cases where the harrowing aspect is simply taken into account in the procedure, more emphatically than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u351	I would like to understand this very well, because Mr Azmani says that this is new cases, but Mr Azmani himself has made the point that there is something missing in the current procedure when it comes to the harrowingness, the aspect of humanity, which must also be a little under review. Then Mr Azmani will not be able to get rid of it so easily by saying: yes, but we have the current cautious policy for that. Then he has to make a choice and say: perhaps it is fair to look again at those people who have not had the broader test.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u352	It is not the case that we are not already looking at these harrowing aspects. It is already the case, for example, that the IND, a decision-maker, has said in cases: it may not comply with laws and regulations, but there are very serious aspects to it, so I am putting this matter before you. We can do that now. But I also say that there is also an instrument afterward. I think it works that way for some people to think: perhaps I am not going to go along with these harrowing aspects, so that might come up more clearly later on in a letter or whatever towards the govern ment. I think you'd be better at securing that in front than how we're doing it right now. So, yeah, I think it's better with each other. If we can come to something together to organize it better, I'm open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u353	Finally, Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u354	That outstretched hand I'd like to take. I think it's good to see how you can improve things, but I'm stuck with the question of what you're doing with the people who haven't been able to benefit from it. As far as I am concerned, Azmani has not been able to give a convincing answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u355	I can give the answer to that that at the moment there is simply the possibility of appealing to harrowingness. In my view, an application can even be made through Article 3.4, third paragraph, of the Aliens' Decision. Then this aspect can still be tested, but I say that we should do it at the front. But I'm happy with the outstretched hand. That's two of them, I'm guessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u356	This is precisely about the previous point. So Mr Azmani really wants a relaxation of the right of asylum, of the immigration procedure. He masks that by saying that we are no longer giving people discretional, from the government, a residence permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u357	No, Mr Baudet misunderstands that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u358	You misunderstand, Mr Azmani says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u359	You have just said that you want to give harrowingness a more explicit role in the assessment of an application. This means, on balance, a relaxation of procedures: more people will be granted a residence permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u360	No, that's not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u361	The last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u362	Okay, that's interesting. If that is not the case and you want to waive that discretionary power, does that mean that you are opposed to Dijkhoff having used this discretionary power no less than 240 times as Secretary of State for Immigration and Asylum? In doing so, a record number of people received a residence permit, which they had not received from the judge in the first instance. Does that mean that you are an opponent of Mark Harbers' flexible immigration policy, which has also given people a residence permit several times after the judge had said: no? It's two-and-a-half. Either you're losing your VVD executives here...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u363	Mr. Azmani...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u364	... or you are calling for a wider asylum and immigration policy, which you are masking with the abolition of discretionary powers. But it's two-and-a-half. You must be clear; you must choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u365	No, both arguments are incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u366	Then I'll go to Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u367	Yes, hello! You can't kill yourself like this...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u368	Mr. Baudet...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u369	... because I'm making a very serious point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u370	Yes. If you want to respond to that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u371	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Both arguments do not apply. Here's what's important. If there are apparently things at the back that are granted for reasons that we do not know, because a govern ment who cannot declare, then I say that these matters should be dealt with earlier on the front because of the false aspects. Just because we put it in the back, I say put it in the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u372	Then I'll go to Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u373	And it will not be a more flexible policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u374	I just want to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u375	A point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u376	This is the third time in this debate that I have been silenced by you, Madam President, when we have repeatedly stated in plenary, in the order of business, that we wanted a fundamental debate on the immigration policy of this cabinet and of the VVD. Marrakesh had to be dealt with. Now there is a second issue, namely the abolition of the government's discretionary powers. It has always been said by this Chamber that we would take a great deal of time in the debate on the budget for security and justice. I kept saying it was gonna get snowed under. The Chamber, including Mr Azmani himself, assured me that we would take a great deal of time. It was said, Mr. Baudet, you'll have plenty of room to make all your points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u377	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u378	Now we are sitting here in the debate and I am silenced over and over again. I really don't think that's possible. We are taking the time and we are really going to talk about it, or we are planning a new special debate on the VVD's pro-immigration policy. But it's two-and-a-half.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u379	Mr. Baudet, this was a point of order. This is a debate on the budget of Justice and Security. Of course, asylum policy is one of them. You, like everyone else, have had the opportunity to interrupt. You ask a number of questions and then I move on to other Members of Parliament. It can't be that you ask ten questions in a row and others only two. I'm also trying a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u380	Oh, but I'd also like to ask others several questions. It's only 9:15.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u381	No. You may ask one more question, Mr. Baudet. Then I'm going to see Mr Azmani. And then I go to Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u382	Mr Azmani says: let those issues that are so poignant take place no longer at the back but at the front. There is, of course, no reason why that would not have been the case at the front, i.e. before the court of Justice. In fact, in none of these cases new facts have been raised. So if he wants to solve that at the front, it can only be that he is in favour of extending our asylum and immigration legislation. There's no other way. Why don't you just say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u383	No, that reasoning doesn't apply at all. How does Mr Baudet know that there are no new facts? Mr Baudet does not know that at all. We don't know that either. That's the whole problem. No one understands why a permit is granted in a particular case. And the ruler cannot explain why it is granted or not. That's the whole problem I'm talking about. If it takes place at the front, the harrowing aspects can be taken into account in the decision. Then the judge can find something. And then you come to a judgment instead of doing it afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u384	So you think that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u385	Mr. Baudet, I'm really going to see Mr. Voordewind right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u386	I'm sorry, but I think it's a really bad thing that you're interrupting the debate here between the Forum for Democracy and the VVD in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u387	Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u388	I would like to go into a little more detail about the proposal. We have to take it seriously, too. Mr Azmani says: in fact, I would like to take more into account this possibility of distress at the front. Why does he bring that up now? It is already possible; he admits that. IND staff can make their decision a matter of urgency. What's different? Why would he want to lock it up in the back, when it's already in the front?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u389	I think that, because it is still at the back, there may not be sufficient attention to these aspects at the front. I also think it is always a bit atypical when it comes to the office of a ruler. Nor do I think it is fair to the people who eventually leave the country. If there are harrowing aspects, they should simply be taken into account in the procedure. That's possible, but I think we can do it even better. In my opinion, we do not have to put that at the end of the day in a political government, but we can simply put it within the organisation of the IND and then the judge can decide on it. That seems much more purer to me, also legally speaking. That also suits our country much more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u390	I note that what Mr Azmani wants is already possible. It is therefore a question of information. But I also ask him about the judicial test, if you want to go into it with a harrowing test, which is difficult to grasp in law and regulation. Judges are supposed to check the laws and regulations against the practice. Then Mr Azmani can explain to the judges how he is going to deal with the harrowingness, as the Secretary of State does very carefully on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u391	This is taken into account in the decision-making process. These poignant aspects are already being raised in court cases. However, if there are critical aspects to be considered, the administrative authority does have a certain discretion. Because the governing body sees the different kinds of issues with these various poignant aspects. That can make a choice: what is and what is not? It will therefore be considered whether the administrative body can reasonably come to the conclusion that no authorisation is being granted. If a permit is granted, such a case will not be brought before the courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u392	Finally, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u393	I note that judges do not grant permits, but the IND does. They can only refer a case back to the IND.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u394	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u395	Finally, let me turn to Mr Azmani's speech. He says: I am quite willing to look at current legislation and regulations and at possible stronger anchoring of the children's court, so that less or perhaps ultimately there is no need to appeal to the Secretary of State for discretion. Is Mr Azmani prepared to take a very serious look at whether we can anchor these children's rights stronger than we are now in the legislation, in the Foreigner's Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u396	Surprising circumstances are not only there in children, but is something wider. So we should not fail other people who find themselves in a poignant situation where you should not reasonably expect him or her to return. So that's what you have to take into account. And Mr Voordewind is talking about children's rights. I am looking forward to the initiative proposal. I will truly judge it on its merits to the best of my conscience. But I also say that the International Convention on the Rights of the Child has already been incorporated into policy and is taken into account in decisions. But perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to come back to that in his response on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u397	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u398	Thank you, Madam President. My colleague Bram van Ojik will take care of the issues of asylum and migration. I would like to highlight a number of other issues, which affect the two ministers in particular. "Neighbor and Neighbor" I sometimes call them. The Minister for Legal Protection, who, with some lightness, is slowly undermining this legal protection. And the Minister of Justice and Security, eager to show that he's doing everything he can and he's on top of it. But what are they building for us? Let me say first of all that there are absolute blessings to count. Last year my motion for a better approach to marital imprisonment, which I tabled with Mrs Van Toorenburg, was wiped off the table, and now there is a first proposal. I think it is too thin, but the step towards legislation has been taken. More attention is being paid to sexual violence and to police dealing with victims. And the Minister has also been prepared to reverse some of the increase in registry fees. And so we occasionally succeed in reaching wider agreement. I thank the ministers for that. But I also have great concerns because I believe that there is selectivity, for example in the case of prosecution. First of all, this is the case in the fight against drug crime. The Minister likes to talk about it a lot. "Tackle hard," he says. And I agree with him that organised crime, which earns gold money with drugs, needs to be dealt with hard. Hard! To put an end to the undermining of our rule of law and threatening our mayors. But the Minister also knows that until now it is mainly the errand boys, the interchangeable sidekicks, often with a low IQ, who are punished. The big boys jump out of the dance because there's no capacity to detect. Something's gonna go wrong. There is then no class justice in the judge's assessment, but effective in the prosecution, to the great frustration of policemen as well. We will therefore have to do much more to monitor the large money. Not only ING has done too little for years to prevent criminals from laundering their money. According to DNB, other financial institutions have also turned their backs. And no less than a genuine cultural change is needed at many trust offices........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I ask the Minister: what is needed for this cultural change? Mr. Chairman. I think we should also consider the model of the criminals' income. 'Cause I don't think the world's ever gonna be drug-free. And a ban also leads to the billion-dollar trade that undermines our rule of law and hugely confiscates the capacity of our criminal justice chain. That's gotta be different in the end. GroenLinks hopes, therefore, that the weed experiment will succeed. It is precisely the criminals who have an interest in keeping things as they are, and we should not let ourselves be loaned for that. Last week we received the general measure of governance in which the proposed weed experiment is further developed. And I honestly just don't understand. Because in the fight against undermining, this cabinet is always working with mayors, because they are close to the fire and responsible for public order and security. But precisely on the theme of coffee shops, in which mayors must be able to deliver customary work, the cabinet turns away from those mayors. The VNG is disappointed because mayors who want to experiment are obliged to use the resident criterion, whereby coffeeshops can only sell to residents. But in the past, we have seen that this causes a great deal of nuisance on the street. Let's give some more responsibility to the mayors in this experiment. And what about those four years? Is it or is it not possible for the experiment to be extended in the event of a positive result? I hope so, because otherwise it's hard to get entrepreneurs into the switch to legal weed. So there are a lot of obstacles to making the experiment work. Is the Minister prepared to allow more local customization and consult with the UNG on this? Then dumping drug waste: barrels of hydrochloric acid gas in residential areas or in the nature of our drinking water. It is criminal, and it is good that action is taken against it. But it is also good to talk here about other forms of environmental crime, such as manure fraud. There too, there is undermining, the interrelation of the underworld and the upper world, the scam and even the serious threat of civil servants, regardless of the serious damage to public health. But I hear the Minister far less about this. No big interviews in the papers. It is a lot of drugs that beats the clock and little manure, while it is important to take a stand against this fraud, which seems almost normal in some communities. What's stopping the Minister? Yesterday, the State's Attorney's Office carried out a major action. That is an important step, but according to the prosecutor himself it is only a drop on a glowing record. The odds of getting caught are absurdly low. There are 1,200 controls on 900,000 manure shipments, involving EUR 500 million. How does the Minister intend to increase the chances of getting caught? Is he willing to set specific search targets? You can see that it's often the same companies that break the rules. Will the Minister, in consultation with the Secretary of State of IenW, come up with specific measures against repeaters? Because these companies need to be dealt with much harder. During its budget debate, the Secretary of State for IenW indicated that many convicted fraudsters can still receive subsidies from the government. That's very strange. I wonder whether the government is always asking companies with which it is in a relationship, because, yes, it really exists: an explanation of the behaviour of legal persons. It is intended for companies to demonstrate integrity and therefore also to ensure that mistakes from the past can be taken into account. But does the government do that? It is cynical, by the way, that you have to pay for such a fee and that you have to transfer it to an ING bank account, because that is the home banker of the Dutch State. That brings me to the question of whether it is true that ING would still get such a vote despite the fact that it has earned millions of euros from ignoring money laundering, but because it has settled with the prosecutor instead of bringing criminal proceedings. I'd like a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. In the field of the environment, the police cooperate with special investigators: the green boas. My colleague Bram van Ojik also liked that name. Green boas play an important role, especially in the enforcement in the outlying areas. They're really needed there because the police are struggling with a lack of capacity. Now a plan of action has recently emerged. My group can only see this as a first step, because the most fundamental is missing. That is the recognition that these boas actually carry out a public task and that this therefore means something for the burden-sharing. My group would also like to talk about extending the powers of these green boas, so that some forest rangers can also fined someone for, for example, illegal possession of weapons. When can we expect a plan of approach 2.0? Not only green boas take over some of the tasks of the national police, but also municipalities increase their enforcement capacity by employing more boas locally. My colleague already mentioned it. I understand these municipalities, but how does the minister view this? The boas have been highly professionalized over the years and are becoming increasingly police-like. There seems to be some kind of tacit agreement that the police are gradually focusing more on emergency aid, detection and crime-fighting, and that boas are increasingly on the enforcement side. This, of course, has implications for the broad task, which we have always said is so special for the Dutch police. It is therefore essential to develop a national vision of municipal enforcement. I hope the Minister is prepared to do so. Mr. Chairman. I wonder how many cops are actually out on the street in 24 hours. Is that indeed only 7,000, as the FNV has counted? And is that more or less than in time before the national police came about? Because more blue on the street was the sacred promise anyway. What about it? There's one function you can clearly see that there's more inside than was meant to be. This concerns the OE, the operational expert, who should be a cooperative foreman or forewoman on the street. But they now have to take over tasks very often from overstaffed team chiefs at the office. To what extent is this at the expense of operational strength on the street? The report from the WODC that came out last week says that the team chiefs need to be relieved. But that can't be by bringing in more people from the street, can it? I would like an idea from the Minister as to how he intends to meet the demands of the team chiefs and at the same time to ensure that the workload in the basic teams is reduced. Mr. Chairman. The workload with the police is enormous. Over 200,000 times this year the Working Time Act has been broken. But the stress that a lot of cops experience goes beyond hours. It also has to do with not being able to recover from very stressful situations and with insufficient participation, for example in the schedules. I notice that with other professionals, too. They're not afraid to work hard, but they're angry about the fact that they just have to run production when they see it's not working. Take, for example, the judges who work 40% overtime. They do not just want more colleagues, they especially want recognition of the fact that they do not just do assembly line work. They also want participation; they want the reality of the workplace to be more familiar and more central to management decisions. This also applies, for example, to detention staff. Their schedules are currently designed in such a way that they are not even able to conduct the intake conversations and mentorgsprekken with all the prisoners. It is simply not possible, and yet we always assume that in policy. That makes the work in prison more unsafe, but it also stings mainly because they simply are not able to do the job they are asked to do well. In recent months, we have always focused on the shortage of staff; indeed, it is crucial to tackle this. But what lessons has the Minister learned from all the talks? Does he see similarities in that call for more control, more influence on the workplace? How does he want to deal with that? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. There are a lot of issues to discuss, of course also legal aid, which I know Mr Van Nispen is very much addressing. I shall now only dwell on the events of last weekend. They can't go unspoken. Peaceful protesters intimidated by hooligans spit, pelted. This was an open talk of racism and violence. According to the Minister, the perpetrators of violence will not escape their punishment. I sincerely hope so, but does the Cabinet also put its own hands in? Eleven months of the year there was silence, and then the cabinet does nothing to start a conversation or to stimulate it. Then the entry is coming and people are asked to demonstrate at another time, because that would be a matter of "inner civilisation" according to the Prime Minister. It's totally inappropriate. Because if the Chinese Prime Minister is in the Netherlands, the Falun Gong will demonstrate in exile at that very moment, not the month after that. I hope the Minister will see that the call not to demonstrate now can be seen by some as a support to disrupt those demonstrations. I hope he regrets that. GroenLinks wants an evaluation of the police deployment, the conditions imposed on demonstrators, the choices made and the lessons learned for next year. The Netherlands belongs to all of us. To stand for that is the ultimate task for these rulers. I conclude by saying that everyone must be free from violence and that human rights must be respected and realized, regardless of colour and origin, but also regardless of sexual orientation or gender. In that context, it is also good to mention the COC manifesto that has been presented today, to remind the Minister of that plan to tackle violence against Ibtis properly and to ask him how he really intends to deal with it, because 'I am tired of it' they say about the violence against these Ibtis. I can only endorse that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u399	Choices had to be made by Mrs Buitenweg; I had to make them when I made my contribution. Mrs Buitenweg asked me at the end why I had not paid attention to the women who are not allowed to go outside of their husbands and who are being held in marriage imprisonment, a very bad thing. In the direction of Mrs Buitenweg, I had to acknowledge that I had not included that in my contribution, but she is served at her beck and call. Yesterday, for all intents and purposes, Mr Bente Becker presented an action plan on behalf of my group. What I would like to ask Mrs Buitenweg is whether she can count on her support. This is about women's independence in migrant communities, sexual self-determination in education, integration and care, and it is also very important to combat unfree and oppressive influence and also to punish oppressors and their accomplices.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u400	Of course, I have not been able to fully study the text, but this obviously seems to me to be something I could support. I am in favour of the emancipation and free disposal of men and women and, of course, I am against their suppression. So I'd like to take a look at it. I do find it interesting, though, because I saw a small part of the text "How always there is talk of honour-related violence: it is always only about migrants. In the Netherlands, too, domestic violence often affects mainly women and not men. There's something going on there that has to do with stereotypes. In the Netherlands too, therefore, we are not entirely immune from attitudes about how women should actually behave, which contributes to the fact that they too are more often victims of violence. So I think it's great to support this. I will also read the text carefully. I think it is important to promote the protection of violence and women's freedom of choice, but I am sure we can find each other on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u401	I propose that Mrs Buitenweg contact Mrs Becker of the VVD on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u402	I think it's super nice that you guys filed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u403	I heard Mrs Buitenweg say in her reflections on what took place this weekend that there should be an evaluation of the police deployment. Do you think the police did it wrong this weekend? Are we going to pass this social debate on to the policemen who unfortunately had to jump in there? What exactly do you mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u404	That is certainly not the intention. I believe that Mr Chris van Dam has heard from GroenLinks many times that we are not blaming the police, but especially the cabinet, which we really think has been misreacted from Friday. I'd like some kind of idea of how the choices were made to protect the protesters. Minister Ollongren keeps saying that demonstration is a sacred duty and that we really must do everything we can to ensure that there is sufficient protection for those protesters. I've also heard protesters have to pay for their own security once in a while. However, I would like to know what choices have been made, certainly not with the intention of accusing the police of doing so. The police have also protected many demonstrators, but to know whether sufficient capacity has been made available to ensure that the right to demonstrate can actually be exercised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u405	I'd rather have a cop go back out on the street than type an evaluation. Hence the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u406	I imagine that's what a coalition member is saying right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u407	I too listened with interest to Mrs Buitenweg's idea of an evaluation of the use of the police. This is, of course, an important task for the police, the maintenance of public order. We don't talk about that very often here in the Chamber. It is an interesting proposal, but I wonder what Mrs Buitenweg wants with the proposal. Does she want to look at those 30 municipalities where it went wrong, just to put it mildly? Or does she want to look at the municipalities where it actually went very peacefully?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u408	I want to see if we have done enough to meet what the Ombudsman, among other things, keeps asking us and what Minister Ollongren has also asked us to do, namely to do everything we can to ensure that people can demonstrate. Sometimes there may be reasons why this is complicated, for example if you cannot guarantee public order and security. Then it can happen that a demonstration has to be moved or can't even go on. I do think it is important to know whether sufficient capacity has been made available. For me, that is one of the subjects. The other is about the lessons that can be drawn out for next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u409	The freedom to demonstrate is a fundamental right in the Netherlands. It's very important to protect that. My group is also in favour of this. We have had a debate on this before in the Chamber, also in the light of the findings of the National Ombudsman's report. My question to Mrs Buitenweg is as follows. In the Netherlands there is a very good tradition to do a lot on the preventive side, to prevent it from coming to clashes, to confrontations in public space. Would it be prepared, if promised, to look in particular at the functioning of these prevention mechanisms?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u410	That seems to me to be a very good point. I think it is very important to be preventive. This has happened in many cities, and has been spoken to different groups. Years ago I myself saw how that went well in Amsterdam. On the other hand, not only do we have to look at what has gone well with this prevention, but perhaps we can also look at what has happened. Because of the fact that important members of the cabinet say that demonstrations can be held at a different time than during the entrance, I can imagine that some people see that as a little support in the back to disrupt those demonstrations. That's what really stabbed me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u411	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u412	Of course, I do not want to anticipate the normative conclusions of such an evaluation. I believe that this fundamental right must not be restricted at all. That's one angle. You're talking about police capacity. Then it is also about prevention and that sort of thing more, which can also be discussed in the regional triangle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u413	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u414	Apparently, we are now living in times when the entrance of Santa Claus is a high-risk event. The entry required 600 agents. I find that embarrassing. It's a kids' party. I heard Mrs Buitenweg say, and that is why I take the opportunity to interrupt: The Netherlands belongs to everyone and the right to demonstrate belongs to everyone. Now, of course, kids can't demonstrate, but this was their party that day. Why did this kind of confrontation have to take place just on that day? My colleague Bosma has already asked this afternoon whether it would not be a good idea to simply not demonstrate on that day. I do not see that as support for people who have taken advantage of it. Let's not say anything about the hooligans. My colleague Markuszower just did that. It was embarrassing on both sides. But it's a kids' party. Can't we go back there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u415	It wasn't embarrassing on either side. On one side it was demonstrated and on the other it was embarrassing. I've also seen some photos of people demonstrating for another pussy, another Black Pete. Then you saw people with signs and there the procession walked by. It's okay, kids don't cry. It went wrong the moment the people who demonstrated there were engaged. That's what went wrong. But you must be able to demonstrate, as has always been said, in the eyes of the people you are demonstrating against. That was here with the Chinese Prime Minister, for example. Of course, that is not pleasant, not even for diplomatic relations: when the Chinese went in, not only were there supporters at our door, but there were also people protesting against it a bit further up the road. We hold that high in the Netherlands, for the freedom of demonstration: that it is in the sight of the people you are demonstrating against.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u416	Yeah, but this is a kids' party. Here are the children and their parents who pay the price. As far as my group is concerned, that simply goes too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u417	I didn't see any kids' bunches, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u418	No, but I did notice that their day was ruined. And there goes...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u419	Yeah, and with what?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u420	Apparently, Mrs. Buitenweg's emotions are high. As far as my group is concerned, that is a children's party on that day. I would have liked Mrs Buitenweg to agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u421	I've always had the pleasure of getting the Sinterklaas trek. That's a children's party, but there's a lot to demonstrate. It goes wrong at the moment when it is so hard to fight, belligerent and spit and humiliation takes place. Then it has nothing to do with a children's party or sintering class. Those are pure racism and pure violence. We need to take action against that. That is why I believe that the cabinet has failed and that it is important to evaluate all of this. Above all, we need to make sure that next year is a lot better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u422	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. Mr Van Ojik, also on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u423	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my contribution, I would like to go further into the initiative law of GroenLinks and the Labour Party, which Mrs Kuik and Mr Voordewind have already mentioned. Mr Azmani is not here right now, but he will undoubtedly be coming soon. Look, there he is! Mr Azmani promised that he would look constructively at this initiative law. I will start with the 400 or so children who are rooted in the Netherlands, but who do not yet have the right of residence and are threatened with expulsion. I actually believe that nobody in the Netherlands is satisfied with the current regime. We have a children's pardon which is not really called and which virtually no one is eligible for. That is the intention, the Secretary of State said only in a general discussion that we had with him. But there is growing unrest and also growing resistance as soon as the children to be evicted get a face and the absurdity of the expulsion becomes evident. It is good, Mr President, that there will be an independent investigation into general measures to shorten procedures. Of course, children will also benefit from this. But without that investigation, the Secretary of State can of course do all that is necessary, for example, not cut back on the IND as long as procedures become longer. It takes almost a year for an application to be dealt with at all. And then the IND, if I'm right, can do 15 months on its treatment. If the applicant, but often also by the State, then the lack of capacity again affects the IND. The Council of State also regularly takes considerable time. I have two questions for the Secretary of State. Is the Secretary of State prepared to moderate cuts on the IND as long as the waiting lists rise? Would it be an idea for the State to appeal less often and rather to comply with court rulings in order to avoid longer procedures? What more can we do specifically for children? I would like to speak again in favour of a more generous application of the children's pardon, but I know, of course, that the majority of this Chamber does not want to do so. This is why GroenLinks and the Labour Party have been working for some time now on an initiative law, an amendment to the Foreigner's Act, which aims to ensure that the position of children in the asylum chain is structurally better regulated. We want a comprehensive child rights test at the beginning of the procedure. This will assess, better than at present, whether there are specific grounds for children to have a right of residence. Think, for example, of the risk of genital mutilation, recruitment of child soldiers or child prostitution. If these interests are properly weighed up at the beginning of the procedure, then we will prevent parents from feeling that they have to go to trial longer, because the child's interest has not been properly taken into account. In the end, we will avoid what no one wants, namely that children are first rooted and then evicted. The Council of State was critical of the first concept of the GroenLinks/PvdA initiative. We would attach too much importance to the best interests of the child, the council states. We take these criticisms seriously, of course, and look for a balanced approach. I very much hope that other parties will join this search, as Mrs Kikkie also said. I invite all colleagues and, of course, the Secretary of State to discuss our initiative. A structural solution is really better than a non-functioning pardon or an occasional discretionary power, shouldn't the VVD agree with me? It also prevents many, not without reason, from being afraid of, and that is that after each pardon there will be a new group of children, for whom the same problem occurs, because we do not want it to happen. I would just like to say a few words, if you will allow me, about the care and facilities for seriously ill and disabled children. Last week, the coalition voted against my colleague Buitenweg's motion calling on the Secretary of State to ensure that care and facilities in azc's are in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. According to Defence for Children, there have been dozens of cases for which no solution has yet been found. Unfortunately, the motion has been rejected, but I ask the Secretary of State what he is going to do anyway to provide these children with adequate care that takes account of their health situation. I'd like a response. Finally. I can't really get around it: the Global Compact for Migration. Two years ago, the Netherlands agreed that this should be done at a UN meeting in New York. This summer it was done, completely according to plan. We have been able to negotiate it actively for two years, and it needs to be ratified again next month. And suddenly we don't know for sure anymore, it has to be tested legally and we want to make sure that there are no claims from it. In the belief of my group, it is compact in Dutch interest. It makes migration more manageable and predictable. That's in everyone's best interest. It makes border surveillance more effective. It seeks to eliminate the root causes of migration. It tackles human trafficking and regulates the safe return of those whose stay is not permitted. And yes, it also monitors the human rights of migrants and tackles their vulnerabilities. A balanced package, which should be supported by the cabinet. And yes, Madam President, it really says: the compact reaffirms the sovereign right of states to shape their own national migration policies, Article 15. The compact is a non-binding framework, Article 7, no more and no less. I say do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u424	If it is non-binding, as incredibly non-binding as Mr Van Ojik strongly stresses, then what is the benefit of signing this treaty? What good is it gonna do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u425	Quite frankly, there are many international agreements which are not binding, are not a treaty, but which do specify rules of the game within which states operate. They often rely on international conventions, and this also does so compactly. This compact does nothing but translate a number of international treaties that are there, and are all referred to in the preamble, into concrete rules, guidelines and guides for what you could do as a state. In that sense, it is not without obligation. I am also glad that it is not without commitment, because I think it is good that we are doing more on border surveillance, and Mr Baudet should agree with that. I welcome the fact that we are organising the return of refugees well, and Mr Baudet will agree with me. I welcome the fact that it is not non-binding, but it is not a legally binding treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u426	So it's not entirely noncommittal either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u427	No, definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u428	Would Mr Van Ojik agree with the characterisation that it contributes to the whole of international law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u429	No, not of international law, but of international standards or international agreements, as there are many, which have no legal force, but which bind states to the fact that they deal with each other in a proper manner. It has been negotiated in the UN for two years. The Netherlands played a very active part in this, after two years ago it was already agreed, including with the agreement of our country, that there should be such a compact one. So it has no legal force, but it is certainly not without obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u430	Could you call that soft law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u431	No, I wouldn't use the word "law" for that. It is very explicit in the compact that national legislation is always above the agreements mentioned here, and that states have the right and responsibility to enact their own legislation. So it's not a law, it's not a soft law. It is what it is: a compact, with agreements about how to behave.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u432	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u433	But what are those standards worth, if you don't even call it soft law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u434	States can appeal to each other in the United Nations. Of course I'm okay with that. Maybe that's the difference between us. You may think that is a very bad idea, but I think it is a very good idea for states to address each other. That is what the international legal order is for, and that is what the UN is for. Much of what we have agreed on there is not legally binding, but it provides a basis for the way in which states deal with each other in the international order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u435	And it is part of the international legal order?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u436	Yes, but that's not a legally defined concept. When we speak... Let me speak for myself: when I speak of the international legal order, I refer to the whole of treaties, but also to compact agreements, to declarations of intent, to objectives agreed at the United Nations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u437	Mr. Chairman. Actually, two points. I am tasting the following in Mr Van Ojik's words: because we were very much in favour of it two years ago and now we are going to have a pact of this kind, we should not complain now, because we have been deeply involved in it. But I assume that Mr Van Ojik agrees with me that we have never been updated on progress, that we now have a complete package in which it is 'take it or leave it'. I think Mr Van Ojik will have to agree with me on that. That is the first point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u438	Shall I do that first, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u439	Yes, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u440	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u441	I think it is very good that we are discussing it now. I do not want to give the impression at all, and in that sense I think Mr Bishop is quite right that, because we said yes two years ago that there should be such a compact one, we should not discuss the content anymore. I do nothing more than discuss the content; I think that is extremely important. What surprised me, though, is that it has been completely quiet for two years. Let me put it this way: when we were still able to act in the direction of Dutch diplomacy, we never did so. Now it almost has to be signed off. I don't think it's even signed literally, but the Secretary of State might be able to confirm or deny that. So that surprised me a little, but I think it is very good that there is a debate now. So I agree with Mr Bishop; let's just sum it up like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u442	And the fact that no comment has been made in the meantime may also have to do with the way in which the information was provided. But I won't make a fuss about that. I would like to explain to you how Mr Van Ojik is looking at the following. He stressed that national sovereignty was not affected. It's not legally binding. But there is an article in it that connects you as a signatory to implement the agreements in the Global Compact at all levels in your own state. I would like Mr Van Ojik to explain how he sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u443	I listened with great interest to the interruption in which Mr Bishop referred to Rule 42.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u444	Article 41.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u445	Oh, yeah, Article 41. It does say: we will implement the Global Compact; we will implement the Global Compact. To be honest, I think it is perfectly logical that, if you make a number of agreements, you should say to each other: we are going to carry out those agreements. Only, as I would like to point out to Mr Bisschop, is the agreement which I would like to add to this the sovereign right of states to shape their own national migration policies in national legislation. That is also one of the agreements made in Article 15. Well, I think it's very good that we say: we have to carry out that agreement. That would reassure Mr Bishop. May I ask Mr Bishop if I am right, Madam President?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u446	No, you can't ask Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u447	Maybe he can admit I'm right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u448	Madam President is absolutely right: you cannot ask anything; I can ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u449	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u450	But you can say I'm right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u451	No, but you're making it very exciting. National legislation is in force, but then the State, the signatory, has committed itself to the agreements, including not distinguishing from legal...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u452	You're gonna answer the question anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u453	...and illegal migration, to be implemented in its own laws and regulations. Doesn't that mean it has to be done? And then national law applies, because you can do it in your own way. So I see a huge field of tension there. In my view, that must be clear before we can consciously sign with a clear conscience. Does Mr Van Ojik agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u454	You can be very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u455	I understand the tension that Mr Bishop is talking about. I always think there is. When states make agreements internationally and one of the agreements is that national legislation is always superior to those international agreements, that is one of the agreements. Of course, there is always a certain tension between them. But of course you close such a compact one and sign it because you plan to do what you agree to do there. If we don't, we can stop, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u456	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u457	I'm not secretive about that either. I welcome the introduction of these agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u458	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u459	But I still wanted to say it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u460	But you already told me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u461	Oh, did I mention it? Okay. Well, I guess I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u462	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u463	Mr. Chairman. A year ago, when the first budget of these leaders was discussed in the Chamber, I appointed on behalf of the CDA Group what we expect of them. That was two things. Firstly, citizens will experience more than before that the rule of law is not an abstraction, but offers them legal protection or protection in concrete cases. Secondly, peace, cleanliness and regularity in the so plagued Ministry of Justice and Security. After years of austerity, reorganization and unrest, it was time for building, continuity and peace. The CDA Group sees a lot of hard work in the new ministry. There is investment in the police with structural and temporary resources. A lot of work is being done to address cybercrime. Undermining is also a spearhead in which a lot of money and energy is invested. Legal aid is being brought up to date, with opportunities for all citizens to obtain quick and good legal advice. I welcome the proposal to address the rights of the Registry for SMEs. I would almost even welcome the new foreman of the NCTV to offer some counterweight in this debate. But the information security of our own ministry is also being shaken. These are all positive points, although there are also concerns, for example about the availability of financial resources. Let us be realistic: we should be concerned about the financing of justice, but also about that of the public prosecutor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u464	There is an interruption by Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u465	Mr Van Dam said that he was pleased with the appointment of Mr Aalbersberg as NCTV boss. I just said in my speech that he's a huge islam hugger. How can such a islam hugger, who is supposed to fight Islamic terrorism, be a suitable person for such a position? Can Mr Van Dam explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u466	I'm not going into concrete people. I'm glad there's continuity at NCTV. It is a very important place and it is good that there is continuity provided by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u467	But Mr Van Dam mentioned a specific person, although not by name. Then Mr Van Dam must also accept the consequences and address this specific person and the problems surrounding this appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u468	I don't have that kind of need. Shall I continue, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u469	Mr Van Dam continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u470	Mr. Chairman. There are also concerns to name. Let me start with the general functioning of the criminal justice chain. Over the last few weeks, I have been rapporteur in our committee together with Mr Buitenweg. The rapporteur shall be heard. I would like to thank the directors for the annex they have sent to the budget this time with an overview of implementation organisations. That is a growth model, but that is how I hope that we, as a Chamber, are also working on the budget in a more constructive way. I am glad that that has been answered. On behalf of the committee, we have this time asked the cabinet to pay more attention to the criminal justice chain in a subsequent budget. I welcome the commitment that ministers are going to do more about it and that it will be expected to do so at the beginning of 2019. I would like to mention a number of things in that context. First of all, the ambition in the criminal justice chain. In 2012, both the Court of Auditors and the WODC presented critical reports. This led to the programme VPS, Strengthening Performance Criminal justice chain, with all kinds of ambitions: speeding up lead times, reducing downtime and improving ICT. In the meantime, the VPS programme has been followed up by the Administrative Criminal Chain Council and they have now also presented their ambitions: digitisation, better lead times and multi-problems. I didn't think it was very new or very ambitious. I'd like to say old wine in smaller bags. That must be more ambitious and I hope that the Minister will pay attention to this in his letter to the Chamber. Then there's the opposite kind of funding. That is also one of the things we have experienced. All participating organisations in the criminal justice chain are funded differently. One receives a pot of money every year without further requirements and the other organisation is financed by product. This leads to foolish situations and sometimes even works counterproductively. That's how a police commissioner asked me what to choose. Put in policemen on Saturday nights to prevent destruction or use the same policemen on Sunday mornings to record reports and track suspects? The state's attorney's office insisted very strongly on the latter. That's not strange, because soon, the public prosecutor will be financing an important part of the output. Another point that plays in that criminal justice chain...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u471	There is an interruption by Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u472	I am glad that Mr Van Dam is actively talking about the criminal justice chain, which I missed at the VVD so that I had to ask for it myself. I can well imagine that Mr Van Dam is saying in relation to that criminal justice chain that it is good that this cabinet is in any case putting extra money into it compared to the last few years in which there has been very severe cuts in the police, the prosecutors and the judiciary. I can therefore imagine that from the point of view of Mr Van Dam, and I also think that he has put good critical questions about this and also plays a good role as rapporteur. Suppose, in a year's time, it turns out that the state of the criminal justice chain is indeed as worrying as we sometimes think from the conversations we have with agents, with prosecutors who are also overburdened, and with concerned judges who are on TV calling the alarm clock. If, in a year's time, it turns out that the state of the criminal justice chain is indeed worrying, is he prepared to see if the agreed budget is sufficient and never a penny can be added? Or is he prepared to see if there are any good proposals that could possibly be supported?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u473	I fully understand Mr Van Nispen's question, but I do not think that much of the problem can be solved by money alone. Be aware, on a number of points, this cabinet is very consciously investing in the criminal justice chain, but the problem goes deeper than just money. You can see that at different points. And I will come to the funding of justice later, but if I look at the prosecution, for example, now, it goes that way, with all the problems that go with it. I'm also looking at the funded legal aid I'll bring it up before you do. Those are all systems that I think are now being made to change the system. And I think it's important to look at the system every now and then: to see if we've made the right agreements about how things are going and see if in the criminal justice chain the organisations there have the same goals or if everyone is just trying to realize their own thing. I think that is more fundamental and essential than looking for a solution in the financial sector right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u474	A follow-up question from Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u475	I'm okay with looking at systems where systems aren't right. And I will explain in this way what I think, for example, of the financing of justice. So I agree with Mr Van Dam. But it's not like you can stay away from funding. You can't just look at the systems. And, of course, we also need to discuss the tasks of police officers and so on. But we must also be prepared to look at the funding. And perhaps it is too early for that this year, but then I have a very specific question. Has Mr Van Dam also noticed that the justice budget in the coming year, 2019, will be reduced by EUR 53 million, and the following year by EUR 96 million? This is then made structural. It's called some kind of underexhaustment. That is taken away from this ministry by the Ministry of Finance with a budget discount. And given the current problems in the criminal justice chain, I don't understand why we all accept that here. How does Mr Van Dam see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u476	Yes, it is the case that we are looking at this year's budget this year. And I fully agree with you that there are quite some financial concerns. I'm the only one who wants to bring something forward right now. Let us take justice, for example. Justice is financed in a PxQ way. There we now see, with a falling inflow, that the fixed charges financed in that PxQ are causing quite a lot of problems. And for the viewers at home: PxQ means that you get a certain price per judgment produced. And if you divide the fixed costs into a declining number of products, then those of less products have to be paid. And I'm pretty worried that we're heading in that direction at the state's attorney's office, too. I believe that this debate, given this budget as it stands, is more important at the moment than that I am already committed or making statements about a budget for subsequent years, which I have not actually seen yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u477	In conclusion, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u478	Yes, but my question was about the budget we are discussing here, that of the year 2019. In it, we send 53.1 million back to the Ministry of Finance, because we can't finish it. I think that's weird. And again, I would like to look at these systems with Mr Van Dam. In the past, we have also asked a lot of questions about the permanent burden of justice. So that's what we're gonna watch together. I agree. But let us also discuss whether it is right that next year the budget should be reduced by EUR 53.1 million, if we know that judges should deal more quickly with their cases, if we see that prosecutors are structurally overburdened, and if we see that cops have to work weekends in succession and can no longer make private arrangements because they cannot live up to them. Is Mr Van Dam prepared not only to talk about the systems, but also to see if next year's budget is rightly reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u479	What we are talking about here is, I think, a discussion for next year. And then I see that things don't just go down. If I look at the police, for example, 291 million will be added and other amounts will be added. I think there are places, too, I would like to mention a few places where there is talk of fewer prisons or other things. So overall, I think it's what's ahead of us for this year. And I think that the concerns of people working in this sector are related to the workload they are experiencing. I myself have written a comprehensive plan on bureaucracy and all kinds of other aspects. I think we should make a huge effort on that, too. Above all, we must give people the idea that they themselves have control over the situation in which they work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u480	That's enough on this point, I think. Mrs. Buitenweg?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u481	I welcome the very broad explanation given by Mr Van Dam to the report/rapporteur. One thing he makes clear is the output financing of the Public Prosecutor's Office. He says, "That can give a perverse incentive." I ask him: does that mean, in his view, that the police might invest less in prevention? And how does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u482	I think that we still have the least concern about the police in this regard, because that is not an output-funded organisation. That was the case in the past on certain points, but then you can stay a little away from this discussion. In this respect, I am much more concerned about the discussion in the case-law, where judges rise up against it, we know that, and at the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u483	A follow-up question from Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u484	At the Public Prosecutor's Office, this output financing will start from 1 January. What is the position of the CDA on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u485	You know, I think this is how it works out for me first. My question to the Minister is to respond to that. I think it is appropriate to listen to the reaction of the cabinet before I take a stand on this and find all sorts of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u486	Mrs. Buitenweg, is that enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u487	Yes, because from that I conclude that it is actually still open whether it is noted at the end of this debate that it may not be a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u488	I suggest I continue with my input. That is the best way to respond to Mrs Buitenweg in a respectful manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u489	Mr Van Dam continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u490	Yes. I would like to hear from the rulers how they look at the PxQ funding, if I may say so, within the courts, within the Public Prosecutor's Office. Do they recognize the displeasure, not only with judges, but also with policemen, lawyers and many other professionals who are done with the excesses of PxQ thinking? Of course, it is a good thing that public money is being handled responsibly, but are we not gradually getting a deeper and wider view of how the criminal justice chain is managed? That is, in fact, the request to both rulers. Mr. Chairman. Another point I would like to make concerns civic participation. Soon we will be debating the evaluation of the Police Act. Then I will raise many other issues, but one of the issues I would like to mention now is the role of citizens in the search and enforcement. Recently, I was chairman of the first national congress of district supervisors in whatsapp groups. Last Monday, I was in Lansingerland at the start of a pilot burglary investigation. If the police don't have time, citizens will do it themselves. The modern citizen can do a lot of himself and can do a lot more. From a Christian-democratic perspective, I do not find it so difficult for citizens to take responsibility for themselves, but it has proved to me that regulation is necessary. Because citizens are not always waiting for a helpful fellow citizen. It is intriguing to see how the development of technology will contribute in the coming years to the ability of citizens to be active themselves in the field of public order and detection. It is not a question of whether we want this, but of whether we want to regulate this with each other. The role of the police is very varied. In one municipality the police are enthusiastic about active citizens in the search and enforcement, in the other municipality they are very reluctant. At that conference one of the coordinators from the country said: every time there is a new district agent, I can start making appointments again. How does the Minister view the role of citizens in enforcement and detection? Is he happy with that, or does he think it's a difficult, unwelcome interference? I'd like a response. Mr President, then the police budget. About half of the JenV budget concerns the budget for the police. The Court's budget law is extremely limited with regard to the police, because only the total amount in the budget is accounted for. That's policy article 33. On the basis of this budget, there is hardly any insight into it and therefore from the Chamber hardly any effective monitoring of the use of the police budget. We can only, so to speak, approve or reject the whole budget. This is to my group's displeasure. The police are the only organisation in the Netherlands allowed to use violence in peacetime. This justifies effective supervision both on the authority side, the city council, and on the management side, the House of Representatives. In the Police Act, the Minister of Justice and Security is the only one in charge. We in our country are used to the democratic control of such powers. If it is up to the CDA Group, the police will be fully included in the JenV budget for 2020 in the sense that the powers of the Minister, such as the distribution of funds between the units, will be fully included in the budget, but I would like to take this discussion into account in the evaluation of the Police Act and not take it on board in the context of this budget debate. Then the distribution of the police budget this year. The money goes to cops in the neighborhood, among other things. The Minister has made strengthening the police one of his policy priorities. Greetings. We are all in favour of that. In this cabinet period, a lot of money goes to the police. That's not only to tackle undermining, counter cybercrime and more of that kind of thing, but also to strengthen the base teams. That the need in those teams is high, was revealed again by a WODC report that appeared last week. See also my own own own initiative paper dealing with this issue. The base teams, the cops in blue, are the first cops to back up civilians when they need them. If we don't strengthen those teams, the sick leave will be even higher, we'll see fewer and fewer ordinary police on the street and the neighborhood cop won't get to his actual job. To my surprise, the Minister allows the budget earmarked for strengthening the basic teams to be used to tackle cybercrime and undermining. Those are both charities, but that's where money went. I am referring to the situation in the Central Netherlands. Is the Minister prepared to reverse the intention of the police in Utrecht and surrounding areas? There too there is an urgent need for more blue in the street and more hands on the bed of emergency aid; please respond from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Finally, two more points, but I see someone standing by the interrupting microphone, so maybe I should hold back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u491	A brief question, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u492	Yes, I am. That someone. I think there's a lot of common ground in the concerns about the base teams. I wonder how Mr Van Dam intends to strengthen the basic teams. That has not become clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u493	That's actually the Minister carrying out his own plans. There are 1,011 additional formation stations headed to the police. Out of my head, 770 of them should end up in the neighborhood teams. Whether that's a neighborhood cop or a stakeout or a detective on a neighborhood team, soit. But we should not spend that on tasks where money already goes, namely cybercrime and undermining. I am very concerned about continuity, just filling schedules, but also about the presence of police in the streets. That's why I insist that those 770 cops actually put on that suit and do the work there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u494	And Mr Van Dam thinks that the basic teams are sufficiently strengthened?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u495	Yeah, you know, of course it's always good if we spend more money on the police, but you have to make choices. I think it is very good that, after years of decline, a movement is finally being made up again. We also need to understand the size of the Police Academy. You can't hire an infinite number of people unless you're seriously undermining the quality of the training. We must also remember that there is a huge replacement operation going on. 14,000 policemen retire and young people need to be recruited. To be honest, I think that's the max we can do. Another point, to which I will come back in detail in other debates, is that I think that some people may get off their seats in the police to find their place of work again in the basic teams. I certainly have the impression that there are people working in all kinds of other echelons, while I think that the basic teams are the legs on which our police stand. It's the legs of the table the police insist on. They had to be robust base teams, but sometimes they're just shaky temp agencies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u496	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u497	Then the solution could also partly be to seek more administrative support for the team chiefs and to ensure that, for example, the operational experts are back on the streets. Is that also a solution that Mr Van Dam is thinking of?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u498	Well, I don't think that's my solution, but the Minister's solution. Over the next three years, he has given a budget to ensure, during the transition, that, for example, the operational officer who is now working in the control room is returning to work on the streets and that civilian personnel are hired to do his job in the control room. I fully support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u499	When it comes to the deployment of police officers, it is of course also very important to reduce absenteeism with the police. I also mentioned this in my contribution, in response to questions put to me. How's the CDA looking at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u500	I know there are all kinds of plans. We have also discussed them in all kinds of AO's and at other times. The police are working hard to reduce absenteeism. I think we should be a little careful that we make this a sort of numerical operation from this forum. We shouldn't say, "Well, guys, it's so much percent now, and it has to go to so much percent." Because that also leads to all kinds of perverse behavior. Then people who aren't even better or whatever are called at home are called at home. I hear noises about...................................................................................................................................................................... That's not what I'm waiting for. I just want there to be fundamental changes within the police and people there to feel senang. I worked there myself for 12 years. It's a wonderful place to work, but there has to be some kind of internal security to work there. It has a lot to do with something many have already pointed out, namely that the number of managers per employee is absurdly low. So there are a lot of things we have to work on. I'm also convinced that the police are working on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u501	I am convinced of this in itself, if it is not that I cannot see that it has been effective so far, in the sense that the percentage has actually been reduced. I don't want to trivialize anything, but I think it's an alarmingly high percentage. I'd like it if we could put some pressure on this road. I myself passed on questions to the minister responsible for the police. Perhaps Mr Van Dam can contribute to this. Then we can say: we want to do something about it in a responsible way. But perhaps there will be another action plan by the police executives to really focus on this. 'Cause we're talking about about about 1,200 cops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u502	Yes. I am only afraid that the action plan is already there, because Mr Rutte asked for it in the previous budget. That action plan came about six months ago. We've discussed this extensively. Sometimes we also have to give an organization time and peace to get on their feet. Let's face it, the police really need to get on their feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u503	I agree with those last words: the police organisation must get on its feet. He has been given some choice with the new Police Act and a substantial staff reorganisation. Now sunny times are coming and there is structural investment in police capacity again. Now I hear Mr Van Dam putting forward all kinds of ideas about, for example, the strengthening of basic teams and all kinds of other things. Of course, it sounds very noble, but the police organisation is quite independent in making those kinds of choices. We know that, of course, because we have the Police Act 2012. So whose chair is Mr Van Dam going to sit on now? Is he going to sit on the chair of the Minister or on the chair of the Chief Constable or on the chair of the critical and constructive MP?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u504	I see this as a title of honour: critical and constructive Member of Parliament. I'd like to be. It's very simple: there is no organisation in the Netherlands that hangs on as many lines, local and national, as our police. There are two very important lines to discover. The first is the line of authority. We always want to talk here about what choices are being made to tackle a demonstration or not and that sort of thing. The second is the management line. We are actually talking about the management line here. The Minister is in the middle of the Dutch police. We'll check it out. I want to be able to exercise this control in all forms, including in the future. That is why I think it is important that at least the powers that the Minister has with regard to the police should be visible in the budget, for example the division of strength between the units of the budget, so that, if we disagree with a certain division of agents into a unit, we could mutate this in line with the powers that the Minister has. I believe that democratic control of our police is vital for a good police.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u505	Finally, Mrs Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u506	Mr. Van Dam always ends up with things that I can quite agree with. Democratic control is absolutely very good. I also agree with the plea that the police should be very present on the streets. But it's not just about that street. The adadium is that the police are committed to neighborhood, web and world. It's natural universes that flow into each other. So what is your view on the deployment of police capacity in those three worlds?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u507	Then Mrs Den Boer calls that. The words you say now, "neighborhood, web and world," are part of the vision that the Dutch police formulated a while ago. Let us be quite honest: that vision has never been shared with the House of Representatives. We've never had that document on the table before. I find that an interesting thing, because there is really no such vision. It must of course be shared with authority, and here too. So I can't do that much more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u508	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u509	Mr President, I have two more points of substance that I would like to make. Firstly, there is monitoring of ICT projects. Basically, new projects of more than EUR 5 million require a BIT opinion. I think that's very good. Police and justice have now converted to this. But once a project is running, who's gonna supervise it? Actually, three agencies can do that. Firstly, the Court of Auditors. We cannot send much, because the Court of Auditors is an independent body. Secondly, it is either the departmental or the state audit service. There may be something we can do through the Minister. Thirdly, however, as far as I am concerned, this should be the Justice and Security Inspectorate. This inspection is primarily carried out by an organisation's task. Is justice working? Is the police doing okay? But in 2018 it is unthinkable that you can do that without looking at the ICT systems as well. So I ask the Minister: is he willing to pay more explicit attention to the progress of ICT projects in the Justice and Security Inspectorate agenda? I looked inside and it's not even in there right now. My final point concerns the CCV, the Centre for Crime Prevention and Security. Last year, with Mr Van Oosten, I tabled an amendment on this in the firm belief that a certain part of the budget would fall and another part would remain the same. And in 2019 the bottom line is that, contrary to my expectations, there is still a deficit in that organisation of about €445,000. I would like to see the Minister for Legal Protection explain again exactly what this is about and where my expectations have gone wrong. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of my input. I would like to say a few words about this. The CDA's vision of safety starts with people at home and starts at the kitchen table where the family is eating. It starts at school, at the sports club. If parents don't live up to their children how to deal with alcohol, with fireworks, with solving quarrels, even when it comes to Saint Nicholas and Black Piet, then it becomes really unsafe in the Netherlands. And if the plumber and the accountant think it's normal for you to take an ecstasy pill if you're gonna party or use cocaine to make it through the night, it's only gonna get scary. If we do not give that responsible citizen his responsibility, we will soon put our security wishes on the police board. And that sign is already very full. We are making our country resilient to crime and insecurity when citizens are resistant, dare to take responsibility, and if there is an incredibly well-functioning police force and a well-functioning legal system behind it. The latter is the task of the rulers who are here. And again, we will follow you very closely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u510	We are still going to have the extensive discussion on legal aid, but I thought it was going very quickly. Mr Van Dam said that legal aid is being brought to the time. I think Mr Van Dam thinks it is a good idea and I think I am a lot more critical of those plans. But I would like to highlight one aspect, namely the procurement of legal aid packages. We do know the CDA as a party that has a critical attitude towards procurement. I just want to ask Mr Van Dam the honest question: does he see concerns and what concerns he have about tenders? What does he give to the cabinet in this respect, for example in terms of guaranteeing quality, for example in terms of longer-term effects? What critical questions is he going to put to the cabinet in this regard?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u511	It is interesting, because I note in the question, not only with certain colleagues, but also in a part of the world of the legal profession, that legal aid packages are associated enormously with contracting, privatising, a race to the bottom and 'as cheap as possible'. As far as I am concerned, that is not the idea of legal aid packages at all. Because those legal aid packages must also help greatly in making it clear what the cost is. That's where the legal aid packages help. This is not at the lowest price, because, to my liking and in consultation with the legal profession, demands must be made on the quality of the people who deliver such a legal aid package. In a legal package on divorce, you name a number of steps. There are a number of actions in that. This allows for certain acts to be carried out by non-lawyers, although under the flag of a contracting lawyer. That's what we all want, partly to make it affordable. And it also offers the possibility for many more people to be able to insure themselves for legal aid, because you know in advance what the size of the package is, and therefore what the size of the cost is. Perhaps I hear it wrong, but in your question I hear a bit of the idea: well, it's a kind of privatisation; everything has to be cheaper and as cheap as possible. No, everything has to be quality in a sufficient and high quality way. I hope that the lawyer will also take a look at what that quality should be in the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u512	I am genuinely trying to understand this answer. The principle of contracting is that people register at the lowest price, right? If you have the lowest price, you get the award and then you have to meet the lowest price in a few years' time. So why would someone invest in training, keep up with their professional literature, etc. if they have no idea if they can go back to helping people who have a problem, for example with the government in a few years' time? So I do see great risks to quality. As Mr Van Dam now puts it, it becomes a kind of walhalla, because everything is getting better, also for the middle groups and so on. It all gets nicer and better for everyone. I'd love to, but I don't think that's what you're up to by overthrowing the current system and introducing tenders. Then I see mostly price fighters on the market. I'm very concerned about the quality. I can't imagine that the CDA doesn't share those concerns at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u513	Of course, there is also an element of cost reduction, but on certain conditions. Let me make a comparison with the aircraft industry. If prize fighters come with an aircraft that does not meet the pre-defined technical specifications, if the crew does not meet the training requirements, if one does not comply with what has been stipulated in advance in terms of knowledge of the jurisdiction, then there is no need to register. Then it's packing up and out. The law in the Netherlands is not part of the government. In the end, they are entrepreneurs who can see in their own way how they can deliver a certain product at a certain price, in accordance with the requirements laid down, which I do not think should be cut short. That's part of it. By the way, I think it is a very small part of a very large plan, which contains many more positive elements for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u514	Brief question, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u515	I hear Mr Van Dam say, and the Minister also occasionally, that whoever takes an ecstasy pill is also responsible for crime. I note that the responsibility is increasingly being placed on the user, but that is also, of course, because of how we regulated the ecstasy market. Nor do we say that someone who drinks a glass of alcohol is responsible for crime. This is not only a question of the user, but also of how the government deals with drugs. Does Mr. Van Dam agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u516	I agree with you in part. The big difference is that alcohol isn't forbidden and an ecstasy pill is. If we are going to have this kind of discussion every time about what we have declared prohibited by certain principles and what we have not, I say in all honesty, is also a bit of cheating in the discussion, because you are not taking that element with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u517	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u518	Then perhaps it is a good thing that Mr Van Dam and I are going to look together at, for example...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u519	I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u520	... the contribution of the Netherlands next March, because then the drug treaties will be reviewed within the United Nations. That is perhaps the time to make some changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u521	That's not interrupting. Thank you, Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u522	I'm not saying anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u523	No, thank you. I'm just looking at the number of interruptions. Some of you have interrupted almost indefinitely. So I'm going to be very strict about that now. And on Thursday you will just be told in advance how many interruptions may be done, because this is not going exactly as it should be. Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u524	I'm not as big as Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u525	I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u526	I feel like a midget now, so far the cathedral has to go down. I'm gonna move on. I can't help it. Mr Van Dam zoomed in on the criminal justice chain. On behalf of the CDA, I am speaking today mainly about the victims. It was Minister Ernst Hirsch Ballin who put the position of victims here on the agenda. A lot's happened since then. A lot of things have improved, but we're not there yet. The practice turns out to be very uncomfortable. First of all, I come to the compensation of the victim's attorney. We see that compensation for victims' lawyers has become almost a risky business. These lawyers can hardly stand by their victims anymore. In fact, far too much is being assumed of the situation of the past, in which only a small claim has to be made on behalf of the injured party. But now victim lawyers are doing a lot more work for the victims. None of them get paid, not even a decent conversation. We even see that when a lawyer is assigned, not through Victim Help The Netherlands but through the Centre Sexual Violence, it is quite difficult to get the hours allocated. And lawyers in Article 12 proceedings don't get shit. So there's work to be done. It is becoming, as I said, an economically irresponsible specialisation, when we agreed that there would be free legal aid in the case of violence and sexual offences. Would the Minister consider with us whether this could be made into a special product, perhaps a special legal aid package for victims, in order to ensure that these people are ultimately justiced, even when they are referred to a civilian chamber? Another point, which Mr Grotenhuizen and Mr Van Oosten have been working on for a very long time, concerns the victim areas in the courts. In fact, I find it very disappointing to see that seven years ago we had devised a model provision and that, in the end, if you look at it now, it is still not in order. I myself, a month ago, before the council report came, had asked the Victims' Aid Fund to look at what's going on there. They went to all the courts and said: about half of them have something, but no one really knows where exactly in court. It's actually a lot worse than the board report shows. Actually, I don't think it's possible. Apparently, no priority has been given to it. There are victims coming to the courthouse, who have had to sign up in advance via the Internet, which they did not know, and then they are put somewhere; sometimes they get the feeling that they are only put in a room. It is not a priority, and I think the Minister should go further. Then I come to a point that we have also talked about a great many times: the ban on housing. We want victims to be protected when a perpetrator gets out of prison and eventually gets to live next door to his victim, especially the next of kin. The CDA has said before that they don't want to. When are we gonna settle that in the end? The Minister says it can be done, but as a special condition. That is not enough as far as we are concerned. Another important issue with regard to victims: mobile telephony...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u527	Finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u528	It is a very different heading, and I am sure that Mr Van Oosten will come to speak about the ban on residence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u529	Is that right, Mr. Van Oosten?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u530	Yes, Mrs Van Toorenburg is absolutely right, because I would like to support Mrs Van Toorenburg wholeheartedly. I would like to ask her whether through her, just like she did to me on a whole other block, or whether it is possible to examine with the Minister how far one has progressed in asking mayors, the Association of Dutch Municipalities, to what extent municipalities are now prepared to deal with each other's misery in order to protect their own residents? In other words, an unsub who is released must then re-integrate into a very different community from where he comes from. That's a pain in the ass for this town, but you're gonna make sure the victims don't stay around the perpetrator's house.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u531	It's a nice intermediate solution that mayors sit around each other and point out: if someone reintegrates, can't we get him anywhere except near the victim or the next of kin? Can we finally get this over with? It's a good intermediate step. But what next of kin and victims often report themselves is that that's a little too noncommittal. It's not enforceable, they don't know if it's gonna happen eventually. So it is a good step, but I think it is important that we look at how things have been arranged in Belgium. There's such a possibility in the law. The minimum duration there is a year. The duration may be 20 years or longer to ensure that a person re-integrated into society does not have the space to live near the next of kin or a victim. I really think we should see if we can legally anchor this. I think we should not just do it, which is a sympathetic thought, by way of a possible exchange between mayors. I had arrived at the victim's footage. In that connection, I am talking about people who use their cell phone to film horrible dramas, which they also post on the Internet. The Chamber knows I'm working on an initiative law. I would very much like to invite everyone to participate in this. It appears to be a huge job, but there are a number of things that need to be done to ensure that people get an action perspective. So I would like to know two things about the cabinet: can we make sure that people know very clearly how to find a place for images, which they may have but which they do not want to put on the internet, to turn them over to the police? In addition, I think it is important that we get to work on a kind of P.O. Box 51 campaign, as is happening in Germany and what the Red Cross is actually advocating, with the motto: you do not do this kind of thing. I've seen what kind of P.O. Box 51 movies are invented for the coming year. I think there are less relevant things in there than this. I would actually like to ask the Cabinet if there is any way to resolve this. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, there are many more victims in our country: there are very many victims in traffic. Its handling is problematic. The quality of the investigation is sometimes so bad that the public prosecutor can't do much with it. Then there will be a sepot or the lead times will last longer and there will be endless court cases. We agreed in a general consultation that this would be a spearhead. Perhaps we should even put a Kalsbeek standard on it, but in the end I do not even see this coming back into the national security agenda. Can the Minister promise me that this will still happen? We know there are 95 victims every year from repeat offenders under the influence behind the wheel. I still hear that people, sometimes for the sixth time, are punished with the same course and a minor punishment. That can't be true, can it? If people haven't been reached twice by some kind of "alcohol course," shouldn't we see if we can do something else with that? So I would like to know from the cabinet what we are going to do on that point. We used to have a special hallway in De Maashegge for people who had these kinds of crimes on their consciences. With these people, some sort of awareness returned. Actually, we kind of lost that. So I would like to ask the cabinet if we could perhaps reorganise these facilities, but at least make sure that we do something so that we do not get these people behind the wheel every time. Unfortunately, the alcohol lock has been stranded, but I do not really think that we can leave it at that. What's the government's reaction? Then another group of victims. We've received an intrusive petition today from the Ihbti community. They see that they are still extremely often victims of hatred, threats, abuse and expulsion. They say that this is not a priority at all; no one is looking at it. I actually want to know from the Cabinet when the plan actually comes to do something serious about this. Mr. Chairman. There are far too many things on the agenda. I'm gonna unpack some more. The undermining of organised crime can always count on my interest if we tackle it. This has been discussed in detail. We finally have a fund, 100 million. I know with the mayors that we can be critical about that, because after a year this is not ready. Couldn't it be revolver? That's what I keep saying. We got a letter about the drug dumping. We want to talk about this further, but we also want to know whether these funds will eventually continue. Finally, terrorism. I said earlier that I actually want people who are suspected of terrorism to cooperate in opening their phones and computers. A lot of things are locked down with biometrics. America has taken a step in this and England has taken a step in it. Can we make sure that suspects of this, just as they have to give DNA, can also be forced to open their computers and their phones to ensure that we can take the information to us as soon as possible to see if we can prevent dramas? It's no way to cooperate in your conviction, because if DNA can, "biometric" as far as we're concerned, too. Mr. Chairman. That leaves five minutes of asylum. That is far too little time, but I am going to talk about it as soon as possible. First of all, of course, there is the migration pact, which we are concerned about on the one hand. When I read it, I think at the same time: a fine piece. Migration offers opportunities and threats and must be managed internationally. We need to prevent people from leaving fireplaces and homes. The root causes need to be addressed. Countries must remain responsible for their own nationals. Migration can offer opportunities. Human rights must be respected. Migrants need to integrate and need help with this. Discrimination must be combated. It was an illustrious list I read. I thought: very well, as a Christian Democrat you shouldn't want anything else. But questions do arise and there are even very great concerns, because there is no description of which individuals could possibly go along with them. Let me say that the world changed after the Urgenda trial. As a result, we have become very cautious that good intentions can eventually turn against us. So it is very important where that could happen, because intentions must be crystal clear. Let me be clear on this point: this is where the problem lies, because on two points I am very concerned. First of all, regular migration in different places in the document is mentioned in one breath with irregular migration. This raises, for example, the question of whether people who may no longer be here are illegal or suddenly need to get a document. Should they receive a document from the Netherlands? That can't be true. Should these people ultimately be led to work? That can't be true. Should these people be offered education? That can't be true. Without discrimination, we have drawn a line between legal and illegal people in the Netherlands. In the end, therefore, we want to be able to take action against this. Next, commitment is made in respect of non-regression. That's kind of an agreement that you're not gonna reduce the rights that already exist. That is also a bit weird, because we also agreed to look at the Refugee Convention. We even put a committee to work to see if we can put an end to dragging, lengthy, stacking procedures. Wouldn't it be possible to do that later? In addition, countries around us are also making retreating movements. We don't want to be the best boy in the classroom to be limited in fighting things we don't want. There are downsides to migration. I think it's important that we keep that in mind. Shall I stop for a second, Mr. Chairman? I think there are all these questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u532	Yeah, I guess so. I think Mr. Baudet would like to ask you about the migration pact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u533	Yes, I do. Until recently, Madeleine van Toorenburg of the CDA stopped us having a specific debate on this. Then I find it very hypocritical that she says: unfortunately I do not have enough time to talk about this in detail. Would you have supported our proposal to have a specific debate on this issue? Now it has to be crammed at a whole series of other points, but okay. You mention some of the disadvantages of this treaty. You're linking it to the Urgenda case. I think that's quite right. Soon, as a result of all kinds of activist procedures by asylum lawyers and so on, a judge will gradually continue to impose this treaty on the Dutch Government as binding. You're worried about that. Does this mean that the CDA will not support it if it turns out that there is a risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u534	I think it is important that the Secretary of State assures us that he will have to do a lot to ensure that individuals cannot derive rights from it. I would like to see a distinction still made between regular and irregular migration and the provision that you should not go backwards in your legal protection at least cannot apply to the way we do it in the Netherlands, because we do want to be able to look at a number of things. These are precisely the things that we have discussed extensively in various AO's over the past period. The last time there was at last an AO where Mr Baudet still held in half, because he found that there was also a debate in other halls. I'll invite him back in next time. They are halls where we talk about migration every time. That's why I said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u535	It was about individuals who could or could not derive rights from the treaty. But there are also a lot of obligations imposed on states, on Member States, such as encouraging the media to give a positive picture of immigration, the provision of all kinds of courses, the positive expression of it and so on, and so on. It is therefore a whole set of standards that may not give rights directly to individuals but require the Dutch State to do all kinds of things. If that could be tightened up, are you prepared to vote against this treaty, are you prepared not to sign it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u536	These are points that Mr Baudet wants to read differently than I read them. The Pact states that you can also talk positively about a number of issues, about migration. Now let me come out of our beautiful sunny Brabant and know that if I go to Eindhoven and say that we have to stop all labour migration tomorrow, Eindhoven is going crazy. I think we should think about what it says with each other. It does not say at all that we must instruct the media to speak positively about migration. It doesn't say that. I don't read that either. But if you want to see that, that's fine. What matters to me is that, looking at the points in the migration pact, I really want all the countries in the world to take care of it as the Netherlands has done: we provide decent documents, we ensure that people integrate when they go somewhere and we help them to do so, which we should have done much better for a long time. There are a lot of things in this pact. I would like all the countries in the world to do that. Because then we can make sure that we address the root causes of migration and that people, if they have to leave somewhere, can be included in their own region. What matters to me is that we really have a much better world if all countries would do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u537	Finally, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u538	So you are in favour of the things mentioned in that pact. Say that clearly!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u539	For the sake of time, I'm not going to repeat my input. I say that there are a lot of things in this pact that we Christian Democrats are very enthusiastic about, namely that countries take their own responsibility, so that people do not have to migrate. It also says that it happens in a decent way, if it does, and that all the countries in the world have proper laws and regulations for that, so that all those people do not think that there is only one region in the world where they are properly dealt with and that that is Europe. Then they know that they are also much better integrated into their own regions. Those are the things that are all in there. Here's what I said. If, as with the Urgenda case, there are a few people who say that it is all well arranged but that, even though they are illegal, on the basis of this pact they want more than cost and accommodation now, preferably in a different place than they are now, and that they also want education and work instruction, I say no. That's the assignment I'm giving to this Secretary of State. Make sure you can't. Also, make sure that the committee that we have put in place to prevent accumulations can continue so that we can adapt our legislation accordingly. This means that we are looking at a number of issues more critically. If all this is possible, I have much less objection to this pact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u540	I know a lot about what Mrs Van Toorenburg says. There are good things in the text and there are bad things in the text. In the end, we as parties will have to weigh up and vote for or against. Of course, there is still a great deal to be discussed. We'll do the same. But the viewer, the listener, is entitled to clarity. What is it now for the CDA with regard to this treaty or compact? Are you in favour or against?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u541	If it were that easy, we wouldn't need debates here. I have not asked questions for nothing, I say to Mr Van Dijk of the SP. I want these questions answered. Only then can I say what I would like with it. If it is the case that individuals can derive rights from this similar to Urgenda and if it is the case that we cannot carry out the tightening-up that we want, then there is no signature, as far as we are concerned, if it should already be put underneath it. But let's be careful, because if this is only a compact as I read it, it doesn't really matter if the Netherlands participates. Because if there are enough countries, then this, like some sort of Security Council resolution, is a new standard in the world. Then we can agree or not, but then it will be taken over by judges and eventually we will be held to it. I would much rather have the Netherlands enter this final phase in a critical way, with the argument we share in the Chamber. Maybe we'll have a profit in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u542	That's exactly what I'm following, but there might be a third way. You can see that there is now a huge discussion about the compact, not only in the Netherlands, but in many countries. The date of signature could therefore just be moved. I have already asked the Secretary of State whether it would not be good to look at the text very carefully. I can imagine that the CDA also has comments on this. Would it not be a good call for countries to have the opportunity to look at this compact treaty very carefully and possibly revise it? The government itself is talking about additions or re-negotiation. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u543	That would be a good idea in itself. What I would rather have is for countries in Europe to join forces. They're all watching what's going on here right now. If Europe is going to regulate this properly and the world is not going to go along with it, we are not at all what we started, two years ago. Mr Van Ojik rightly pointed that out. Europe has asked for something that gives more direction in the world, but we do not want it to be written down that we will all settle things in the western countries even more neatly and that the rest of the world will eventually fall back and think: we do not have to do anything. Then we're farther away from home. That's what the CDA wants to prevent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u544	With all due respect, this is a bit of a bizarre story from the CDA, because if you don't want individual foreigners to be able to derive rights from that pact, then of course you shouldn't sign it. What's the point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u545	I don't really understand what's funny about this. Mr Fritsma is incredibly ugly about that. I think it's a very serious matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u546	That's why I'm asking this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u547	Oh, I didn't notice. I think it is important that we as countries in the world indicate that we believe that everyone should have a decent migration policy. That's what we're talking about. If you were to make such a pact and then you could appeal to countries in the region, we would have come a step further. Then there are the only countries in the world that have settled things nicely for people, here on a stick, so I think it is very sensible that we should set an international standard on how to deal with migration. What is not possible is that it is something an individual can pick out at his own will to improve his own rights. As far as I am concerned, this pact is not for that purpose, and I want that assurance from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u548	Finally, Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u549	That is the essence of this story, because that insurance cannot give this government. The UN climate agreement in Paris is not legally binding either, but judges have made it binding. You don't know what the judges are gonna do until such a pact comes into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u550	It is far too cozy between Mr Azarkan and Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u551	They think this is a less important subject, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u552	We are preparing how we can work together on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u553	You'd better do that in the hallway, because I can almost hear everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u554	So the point is that the cabinet can't do what the CDA asks. The cabinet cannot guarantee that individual foreigners do not derive rights from that pact. We won't know that until that pact comes into force and judges come to terms with it, just like they did with the climate agreement. So the question is whether you want to take that risk. Do you want to take the risk that it will only become clear if you first agree that the cabinet will sign?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u555	I think there is a very big difference between the climate agreement and this pact. One is in a form of treaty and this isn't. Moreover, I think that this cabinet can do its best to look at the risks with a number of smart people. Then I want to hear from the cabinet whether it can guarantee that or not. If we hear from the cabinet that it cannot guarantee that, then I assume that it cannot be signed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u556	Please continue, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u557	So much for the pact, because I was able to say the rest in my interruptions. Another important point, on which I have already had a debate with Mr Azmani, is the troublesome asylum seekers. I know that the aso-azc's should have provided a solution, but to my great disappointment they offer too little result. I think it is important to see if we can come up with a way to actually keep the people who really aren't behaving inside. We can't do that right now, and I think we should be able to do this. Or you should say that such an asylum application will not be dealt with further. Ultimately, it must have consequences when people cause nuisance in the Netherlands or even endanger other people looking for the safety of the Netherlands. That can never be the intention of our asylum policy. I'd like to ask you about TeamUp. I asked about it in AO's. I think it is important that this provision for young people be continued in our centres, so I would like to hear from the Secretary of State if he can manage the funding. Finally, a point that I would like to make on behalf of Mrs Kuik, who is, of course, also here today: trafficking in human beings. She is busy trying to see if we can offer more resistance to this and ensure that it is better solved, including internationally. We see that many municipalities still do not have a specific policy for trafficking in human beings. 95% of the municipalities just didn't do it. 35% of the municipalities don't even know if there's trafficking in human beings. The figures have been discussed more often with the Secretary of State and he has promised that he will report more often. In addition, a plan of approach will be discussed that we have recently received. But shouldn't we also look at creative solutions? How could you almost get a kind of label from municipalities that take it seriously, so that municipalities can eventually get together in this hugely important fight against trafficking in human beings? Is the Secretary of State prepared to explore these creative possibilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u558	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u559	A year ago, the ministry was radically changed. The J of "Justice" was placed before the V of "Security." And there was a Secretary of State for Legal Protection. But apart from these name changes, which are beautiful on paper, what has really changed substantially or fundamentally? Why does Minister Dekker think he's allowed to wear that beautiful name "for legal protection"? What's he done to deserve that for the past year? But I also have a first question for the Minister of Justice and Security. His book was about Rafels under the rule of law. And in his own words, as a child, he had fallen into the cauldron of law. How does he feel about it? The SP believes that it is time for justice, on many fronts, but certainly also in the area of justice. That people can get their rights. We will have to organize justice actively. A lot of people with a dispute or a problem don't know where to go right away. Not only do I notice that, but also Tjeenk Willink, for example. That is why the SP came up with the proposal for houses of law, the general practitioners of the legal world; a place nearby, where people with a social legal dispute can enter, easily accessible, near and affordable. There's a court judge there, but there's also a lawyer, a mediator. You can get legal advice, social work and so on. For first aid in social legal accidents. There are various experiments in justice, and that is certainly interesting and good, but this plan goes on and is more ambitious. That's why I've been talking to several mayors and presidents of courts about whether they see anything in a house-of-law provision. Because there is a need for it in practice, there is enthusiasm. Especially in two places in Limburg, Heerlen and Roermond, but also in other places in the country. I would like to ask the Minister for Legal Protection to follow this with great interest, to support this wherever possible and to see what we can learn from it, to do what is necessary: to organise access to justice for all. And I also have a booklet here for the ministers, or actually for all three govern ments. That's how important this is to us. It is a report of the symposium that I organised on access to justice, with the Belgian peace court, the Dutch court of appeal and many others. I see a number of MPs looking jealous. We have one book for all of you per group. Thank you for the ruffle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u560	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u561	But that symposium wasn't just about the houses of law as solutions. It was also about the problem analysis, namely the government which has often made it so complicated that people sometimes get lost in the forest of rules. And administrative bodies that, with their attitude, cause conflicts themselves instead of solving them neatly. And it was about access to justice in a broad sense, including through subsidised legal aid. Because people regularly need a specialized lawyer to help them get their rights. It is now, and it will remain so. We had the investigations of Wolfsen, Barkhuysen and Van der Meer. They concluded that the system works, but can be better here and there; to begin with by ensuring fair rates for social lawyers, the passionate idealists who are now dropping out because they are barely paid. And that doesn't solve the minister. As far as I am concerned, the Secretary of State for Legal Protection is pretty screwed up when he says that there will only be budgetary room for fair compensation for social lawyers once the number of cases has been reduced. Obviously, that's his agenda. But we're not accounting here, are we? It is about access to justice, the foundation of our rule of law. People are gonna need help packages to get their rights. I really don't understand why the Minister chooses to use legal aid. What does this upcoming battle for the lowest price do with the quality? That's what this is all about, isn't it? Hello prize fighters, say goodbye to the quality of the good specialists. And what kind of bureaucracy are we getting ourselves into? I find this part really inimitable. And in fact, part of the Minister's analysis is just not right either. It's already broken in fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u562	There are false assumptions, such as that lawyers are not paid to solve a case but they would only be paid for litigation. That's just not true. Why does the Minister do that, because he knows that? At least, I hope so. And what does this system review actually cost, for the State, for municipalities, for semi-governments? Is the Minister prepared to examine first what is actually the proceeds of the current legal aid granted? Will you be willing to pay the state attorney $108 an hour in future, like the social lawyers I'm talking about here? Less money, less justice, higher own contributions and a single debt relief for people with a problem. Do we really have that in mind? I might not have expected otherwise from the VVD, but I really hope that parties such as CDA, D66 and ChristenUnie will speak out today or later in a separate debate against the bad parts of these plans, also because they are contrary to the coalition agreement. Less money and less justice is not just. If people can't live up to their rights, we'll get class justice. These plans are unworthy of a Minister for Legal Protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u563	The subject is perfectly suited for a further debate, not in full on this evening at 11 a.m. I hear the representative of the SP bring out all sorts of troubles about this new system, but I think it is fair to say that access for people is greatly improved at the front of the system. Did Mr Van Nispen see that in the plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u564	I consider a few points in the plan to be positive. I welcome the fact that the role of the government is being looked at; finally, I agree. That has been promised for ten years and now again, so I hope that we will actually do it now and that people will not get stuck with governments that do not just pick up the phone or offer mediation. It's been asked for a lot of times. For example, I also welcome the fact that the houses of justice are being looked at. That is explicitly mentioned in the letter and I think that is very positive; that is a place nearby. But I am very concerned about many parts of the letter, such as the call for tenders for legal aid packages, about the introduction of a gatekeeper that you are obliged to pass before you receive any specialised legal aid, about the higher own contributions, which in some cases may even become cost-effective, about the fact that municipalities are no longer allowed to pay for their own contribution from the special assistance. I don't see how to do that. So I'm really worried about a lot of parts. I think it's fair to say the same here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u565	I think there's a lot more positive things in there. You bring up your own contribution, which does not need to be collected by lawyers anymore; that is what the government is going to do. I can mention a lot of things, but precisely because you have laid down a very interesting concept with the houses of law, I would like to call on you to keep a bit of an open mind. Let's have the debate with each other. Then let's see which pluses and minuses are there. Otherwise, I think you're putting it here too simple and too negative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u566	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u567	I will, but I would ask Mr Van Dam to do the same. He said that the legal aid system is now being brought to its proper place, so that is good and it all gets better. I've gone into it a little more deeply. I have not actually heard Mr Van Dam raise any critical questions here either. So I ask him for the same thing: look not only at the pluses, but also at the minuses with an honest look.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u568	Mr. Van Dam, you said yourself that there will be a debate on this. I would like to give you the opportunity to have that debate with each other by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u569	Thank you for this very adequate summary of what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u570	Thank you. Proceed, Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u571	Mr. Chairman. What may also be a form of class justice is the lack of approach of white-collar criminals. Wrong bankers don't get in the way. The settlement with ING resulted in a lot of indignation. Rightly so, but actually this is how we've been doing this for years. Large companies and banks that allow fraud or money laundering, let us buy off their criminal proceedings. There's no judge involved. Why not take a judicial test so society can see what's happening? So a controlling and right-protecting role before the courts in high and special transactions. This is also the case-law Council. There is also indignation because no one is being prosecuted. How about we do that from now on, so always criminal investigations into mega-fraud people? Because the way things are, it's not fair. Punishment for those who deserve punishment, even if that fraud is a banker. Does the Minister agree with me on this? Then what are we gonna do about this? I have just made two proposals to which I would like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u572	Brief question, Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u573	When it comes to the judicial test, I would like to ask Mr Van Nispen how he sees it, and whether that can lead to the risk of the speed being removed from the trial, when the outcome may not be another. After all, you can't put a company behind bars yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u574	The fact that you cannot put a company behind bars is indeed the reason why sometimes a transaction is chosen. Together we think that in addition to that transaction, people should always be looked at. But then that transaction on its own. There may also be a choice for prosecution. That's how we normally did it and still do it in a rule of law: prosecute by the Public Prosecutor's Office and see if a sentence should be followed by a judge. If a transaction is then chosen, then, I believe, we have agreed, since the construction fraud, that the Minister should agree. That is regulated in the designation of the D.A.'s high and special transactions. But the Minister's test is granted by default. There's no judge at all who's in charge of that right now. What I propose is that the judge should indeed be given a controlling and legal protection task so that society can understand what is happening. How did the amount of EUR 775 million actually come to ING? No one knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u575	Finally, Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u576	My question is, what exactly does Mr Van Nispen expect the judge to do? Is it a test to see whether the procedural rules are being complied with? Or is it really a test to see if the outcome is a just one? If that is the case, I think a disadvantage can be that it will just be a very long process with hopefully at least the same outcome but with a lot of effort and a lot more commitment than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u577	Whether that has to take so much longer is not at all said. Of course, it depends on how you organize it. I think speed is very important, but I find care in something that is as outraged as that settlement with ING, just as important. In fact, I believe that this is also the right-wing role of the judge. Should this have been a settlement? Because the Minister simply approves them, so we have nothing to expect from them in that regard. However, that was not the intention of that designation of high and special transactions. So I'm expecting more from the judge than is happening to the minister right now. I also think it is important to keep the speed in, but we should be able to organise it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u578	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u579	Lady Justitia has a blindfold and a sword, but isn't it true nowadays that Lady Justitia sometimes sees under her blindfold who she has standing in front of her and that the sword is not used when it comes to a large company? The question I want to raise today is: do we have forms or characteristics of class justice in the Netherlands? In 1991, as far as I can tell, for the last time, serious research was carried out into the existence of class justice in the Netherlands. In all parts of the criminal justice chain, there were signs of class justice. The study concludes with recommendations for further research. Because you can only understand the phenomenon well and fight it well if you understand and map out the causes of unwanted selectivity. It has therefore been lacking for 20 years, and I think there is every reason to do so. I believe there are indications of any kind of class justice. You can look politically differently at the discussion about legal aid or the desirability of settlements in mega-fraud, but what should not differ is that we do not want class justice in the Netherlands. So, first of all, we need to have class justice independently investigated. What is the extent of the problem? Where are the vulnerabilities and where is this potential undesirable selectivity caused? Only then can we tackle it and prevent it wherever possible, as it should be in a rule of law. Lady Justitia has a blindfold and a sword for a reason. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he is prepared to identify the nature, extent and causes of class justice with a large independent investigation. The whole system is stalling, crisis in the rule of law, concrete rot, these were the qualifications in the triptych of Nieuwsuur last week when it came to the criminal justice chain. In ordinary human language: that you are a victim of rape, scam or home invasion, that you want to report it in the hope that that case will be arrested by the police, with prosecution by the Public Prosecutor and conviction by a judge, as it should be in a rule of law. The government has to be there for you when you need it, and people need to be able to rely on it, but that's not possible. What do you think it's gonna do to a human being, a victim of a criminal offence, if his case can't be picked up and the unsub walks? That's gonna ruin the trust. And what do you think it does to the officers, the prosecutors and the judges, who can't do their job the way they want to? And this is really very fundamental: the government must be there for you when you need it. The public sector is not the problem, it is a solution. The police, the prosecution and the justice system: we should not just see them as a cost. This part of the public sector is also on fire. The good news about the criminal justice chain is that there are very loyal people who run things with the police, the prosecution, the NFI and the justice system. They're having a hard time. They keep things running. They deserve a huge compliment. Last week I asked the Minister how he assessed the state of the criminal justice chain. "Good," he said. "Internationally, we're doing well. There's a lot of work going on. No, really, I'm fine, actually. No problem." According to the Minister. And here, in my view, is precisely the problem: if you do not recognise the problem, then it becomes complicated to work on solutions. As a first step, I would like the Minister to acknowledge and take these problems seriously, because otherwise he will do all these professionals who work the snot in the interests of all of us, injustice, police, prosecutors, NFI and justice. And that's important to restore confidence. First of all, the police. We're asking too many of our agents, and we can't do that. Cops get heavily overloaded: too many night shifts and overtime. Cops sometimes work four or five weekends in a row. And there are thousands of cops too few to do good police work 24 hours a day. There are also much less than promised. How come there's a lot less cops on the street than people keep saying? Why are the numbers being twisted? In Nijmegen, police stations are closed these days on weekends. There's been cuts in the police academy. A few years ago, there was a job summit, totally absurd! This is an incredibly difficult situation for us right now. The Chief Constable acknowledges on television that choices need to be made every day: are we investigating home invasion and rape, or are we investigating organized crime? This is crazy, isn't it? Big bad guys don't go behind bars, they go free, because detectives hardly happen: there's no capacity for it. And we're lucky to catch the little scribblers, but we're not gonna catch the big guys behind the expertise labs. Complicated frauds or illegal financial constructions? There aren't enough detectives for that. There is hardly any budget for innovation, while it is of the utmost importance that we keep up. Organised crime must be opposed by an organised government. Safety is human work, but we don't have enough people. Security is also a public task, but privatisation is threatening. And if the government can't deliver enough, companies are going to buy security themselves. I think that is a very worrying development. There are also major problems with the Public Prosecutor's Office. There are problems with integrity at the highest level. That's very bad for morale. There has been constant cuts, and there have been many additional tasks in the face of investment. There too, it is becoming increasingly difficult to do the job properly. There aren't enough opportunities to go after the big bad guys. We're overloading prosecutors. A collective burnout is imminent. That is the same in the caselaw. There are concerns about the administration of justice. The financial problems are great. There's a lot of catching up to do. People have to wait months for a verdict. There is a structural 40% overtime, as Mrs Buitenweg said. That's impossible, isn't it? If a group of judges send a fire letter and if judges explain their concerns live on TV, then there's really something going on. Unrest in the third state power, independent justice, is bad for trust in our rule of law. The Minister spoke yesterday, I believe, to the concerned judges of the Counter-Light Group. What did he learn from that? What did he keep up with? All dishes and courts turn red numbers. They all present negative budgets for the coming year: not one is positive. What does this mean, according to the Minister? Is he finally gonna calm down after all the discussions over the past few years have just been about the money? Is he gonna put the quality first? At the heart of the problem is that justice is governed as a business. It seems to be a production machine, but it's not a cookie factory. The judges need time to deliver quality, to read cases and to motivate judgments properly. And it was said to counselors: "You have to work 5% harder, because we are heading towards a shortage. The production stays behind, so you get two hours less to prepare a case." Minister, justice is not a business. I also find the influence of the Minister on the appointment of directors in justice problematic. I think we should take a very good look at that. I believe that internal democratisation in justice could strengthen the independence of justice. This should perhaps be the case-law of the Netherlands Association for the Law of the Court of Justice itself in the first instance. But how does the Minister view this? It is of the utmost importance to restore confidence in the functioning of criminal law: that victims of criminal offences can be found somewhere and that their case is arrested, that criminals are caught, especially the major criminals, the organisations behind it. Additional investments are needed. With its amendment, the SP is taking the first step in this direction. I find it very strange that the ministry apparently leaves money every year and is therefore going to return money to the state treasury, while the police, the prosecutors and the judiciary are being cut off and we are not doing anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u580	Mr Van Nispen mentioned the SP amendment to invest 53 million in the criminal justice chain. I went to see where he got that money and then I saw in the budget on page 22 a little min. When I see a minor in the budget, it's usually bad news. At least that's how it is at my place. I think Mr Van Nispen is accounting a little Greek. There is a total discount of 113 million. Of these, 53 million have not yet been filled in. So this is not an amount that is being transferred to finance, but this is an amount that we are still looking for. With his automatic doubler, Mr. Van Nispen thus puts the department much further into trouble. Can Mr Van Nispen explain to me that I see that wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u581	I recommend that Mr Groothuizen read actual questions 124 and 125. 'Cause when I read this, I thought, "Is the Ministry accounting Greek?" I asked a question about this, because that is how we do it in an orderly budget preparation. In the answer to that question, the Minister himself mentions it as a budget discount. Every year there is under-exhaustment in the budget. If it is right, Mr Grothuizen has it in front of him; there is 'excession' and I think there is something else. We asked: what exactly is that? So that's money that's left over every year. In recent years, I think that was 11 million. Now, over the next few years, it will suddenly rise to 53 million and then to 96 million for the years 2020 and beyond. Mr Grothuizen shakes no, but I know this table very well. I didn't ask a real question about that for nothing. I said, what is this? The answer was: we have money left every year, first 11 million, and we expect this for the coming years, so we're going to return it to the Treasury Department. I think that's a bad choice. Then I choose politically to use that money differently. I can't explain it any other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u582	Mr Van Nispen is indeed reading it wrong, I think. He needs to look at page 26. That is where he sees that those two developments have already been taken into account from 2018. That's the 113 million, which leaves 53 million. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe he's wrong, but just say he's wrong. Then what are you gonna say to all those people you stood up to, those police officers, officers and judges, who promised you 53 million, when you can't make that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u583	I find this a little disappointing. I'm gonna call it sometime. Firstly, the SP has earmarked EUR 1.3 billion in the election programme for investment in justice and security. Mr Grothuizen can laugh a bit, but that is a huge amount. That is a great deal more than this coalition is investing, and I compliment it on a regular basis, because after times of austerity, investment is finally being made, although I would have liked it much more. Now I see a post in the budget that I think is crazy and which I think is a strange choice. I ask a factual question about this and I get an answer that I think is: there is a choice I would not make, namely a discount on the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry may have misinformed me in the answer to factual questions 124 and 125. Then the amendment lapses; that is indeed nothing. But then it is up to the Ministry and the way I have been informed, because I have just asked a proper factual question about it, so Mr Groothuizen should not pretend to be making promises here that I cannot live up to. I am referring first of all to our own electoral programme and secondly to the factual questions I have put to the Minister. I can therefore only advise Mr Groothuizen to look at these factual questions and ask the Minister himself about them. I think that is how we, as critical MPs, should control the ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u584	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u585	Mr. Chairman. Why does the Dutch Association for Justice receive another 20% discount on the budget? The Centre for Crime Prevention and Security is again underfunded. We have the same discussions here every year, every year, for years in a row. Why are we cutting back on the Expertise Bureau Online Child Abuse, the EOKM? That's a very important job. I'd like a response to that. We have the same discussion every year. Every year we have to adopt amendments and motions in the Chamber in which we seek structural cover for the next few years and the Ministry then simply tightens it back the next year, so that we have exactly the same discussion here again. I don't think that's very democratic. Another question is whether the application of the recovery law can be extended, including within the existing rules. I also have a question about the weed test. How does the Minister feel about that? Why is there a delay? Is that because more and more municipalities are dropping out and many coffee shops don't like it either? Is this experiment even supposed to be a success? Finally. If you place the J in front of the V and appoint two ministers, one for legal protection and one for security, that creates obligations. They are not being implemented, and that is bad, because it is about the rule of law. We must strengthen it, because it is time for justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u586	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u587	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with a small proposal to the colleagues. It's 11:30 now. I think it will be around 1.30 p.m. when Mr Hiddema starts his contribution. Is it an idea to discuss the various budget chapters in legislative consultation next year? It's just a suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u588	I'd love to take it with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u589	Mr. Chairman. Promoting human dignity, equality and solidarity is the starting point of the SP. With these values, it is bad to see how refugees and migrants are going to perish all over the world. Smugglers make big money organizing life-threatening crossings to Europe, leading to thousands of drowning deaths. People who don't have the money to pay a smuggler can't make the crossing anyway. That is why the SP calls for a fair migration policy. First of all, much more needs to be done on the causes of people migrating. Take the permanent war against countries such as Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria. Those wars haven't brought peace any closer. They did magnify the misery. Also look at the enormous power of multinationals like Shell. They make a profit at the expense of the people of Africa. Unfair trade agreements do not allow these countries to build their economies. Tax avoidance via African countries is also maintained. Since 2015, at least 12,000 people drowned in the Mediterranean. That has nothing to do with justice. At the same time, most refugees in the region are taken care of. That is where much more resources are needed. Recently, the UNHCR asked for USD 8 billion, while, according to my information, only 3.8 billion is still available. Is that right? Do you not find that embarrassing when you hear all those big words about care in the region? In order to prevent people using smugglers from making that life-threatening journey, you should decide in the region who is eligible for asylum, for example through registration centres. How's that going? It can also be done through resettlement, where UNHCR assesses who can come to Europe. Member States then decide who they allow. We are in favour of a realistic asylum policy. People in need deserve protection. People who are not eligible for protection will have to return. If safe reception in the region is not possible, Europe and the Netherlands also take their fair share. We distance ourselves from the right-wing approach to simply pushing refugees back and not doing anything about the root causes. We respect the Refugee Convention and reject the idea of a Fortress Europe. Can the Secretary of State tell us more about the commitment to migration agreements with countries in Africa? What is the situation, for example, with regard to the agreements reached with Niger? Will the promises be kept when it comes to offering perspective to the former smugglers there? Recently, I've been with colleagues in Libya. We've visited the detention centers. It was a mess. Minister Kaag previously argued that those detention centres should be closed down. Unfortunately, they are still open, while the EU continues to support the Libyan Coast Guard, which brings migrants linea recta to detention centres. When are you going to end this controversial cooperation? Once in the Netherlands, the procedures take far too long. That has to do with the shortage of personnel at the IND. In fact, 36 million is being cut on the IND, while waiting times are huge. How is that possible? For this reason, the SP and GroenLinks have made an amendment for more resources for the IND. If this Secretary of State also attaches importance to rapid procedures, why does he so often appeal against decisions of the IND? Does he recognise that this is a serious strain, including for families with children? Take, for example, the case of the Armenian girl Hayarpi. She's been awarded three times. Yet she is now threatened with expulsion. Why is that? I ask the Secretary of State to be human and to give a permit to the 400 children who have been in uncertainty for years. In addition, we need to speed up procedures so that we do not do so in the future. I also ask the government why it does not want to sign the so-called optional protocol to the UN Children's Rights Convention so that matters can be referred to the Children's Rights Committee. Mr. Chairman. Support area for refugee reception is of great importance. Last year I put forward a number of proposals for small-scale reception. What is the government going to do with our recommendation to focus asylum seekers not only in Ter Apel and a number of other major locations, but to spread across the Netherlands? Unfortunately, there are quite a few asylum seekers from safe countries who undermine the acceptance of refugees through nuisance. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this problem needs to be addressed? Why do they not return when it is clear that they will not be granted status? Is the government prepared to negotiate harder with countries of origin? Isn't it amazing that countries like Morocco and Algeria don't take their people back? What sanctions do you have in store? If they don't return, why aren't they placed in an extra-security facility, in a so-called aso-azc? What does the Secretary of State think about the compensation fund in Ter Apel for shopkeepers? With this fund, penalties for theft would be reimbursed by so-called'safelanders'. Do you share the view that a person who commits an offence should pay his own fine, and that we should not therefore have these safelanders escape their fine? Today we would have the debate on the migration pact, but we would also receive a letter from the government. Why isn't that letter here yet? Is this how the coalition is divided? The lawyers would tell us exactly what the legal implications of the pact are. That's what we want to know. An important question is: can you or can you not derive rights from it? There are differences of opinion. We welcome the adoption of measures to combat trafficking in human beings and better regulation of illegal migration. But we do not want this pact to be a trade-out and to exchange illegal migration against legal migration. The Pact should not open the door to cheap labour migration from developing countries. That's nice for companies, but it's disruptive in the countries of arrival. It also leads to a brain drain in the countries of origin. Does the government recognise that in the past, in the 1960s and 1970s, labour migration has not been properly considered, and that we should not repeat that mistake? The SP wants to regulate labour migration, starting in the European Union, through work permits. Then there is a question I have already asked: can we change this pact? Earlier, the Secretary of State said it couldn't be done. But now I read everywhere that there is talk of additions and re-negotiation. Did you make a mistake? Can there really still be renegotiatation? I'd like a response. Support is extremely important for such a far-reaching pact as this. You'd almost say organize a referendum on it. Unfortunately, however, this cabinet has abolished it. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a question to the Minister of Justice, Minister Grapperhaus. I would like to have a response to the petition that the COC presented this afternoon, partly on behalf of #I am sick of it. They are asking for an action plan against anti-lhbti violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u590	Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. I call Mr Grothuizen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u591	Mr. Chairman. How do we prepare our rule of law for the future? That is the fundamental question before my group today. And that starts with the question of the rule of law, the foundation of our democracy, the basis that allows us to live together in freedom and security. I have experienced the rule of law at close range, in the Netherlands, but also in the former Yugoslavia and Ukraine. And when we got home, it was always a hot bath. The Netherlands has a well-functioning rule of law in which a citizen can usually count on the law and its institutions: the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. And that's a great thing we need to cherish. But D66 has also been critical of the state of our rule of law in recent years, and we still are. Because that rule of law is vulnerable. In a society that is rapidly changing, he needs permanent attention. And there are clear concerns. Does the Public Prosecutor have enough time, people and resources for all his duties? Do judges have enough time to do business properly and to look into new developments within and outside the law? Do social lawyers get paid enough for their work? Finally, do people have the idea that the rule of law is there for them, that the right helps them to provide appropriate solutions at important moments in life, such as divorce or dismissal? I would like to dwell today on those concerns and on the steps we need to take to remove those concerns. Mr. Chairman. One of the most important questions when it comes to the functioning of our rule of law is the financing of justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The annual report of the case-law shows a decrease in the number of cases. And as the case law is paid for 95% per case, the fixed burden is increasingly pressing on a smaller number of cases. For innovation and innovation, less and less money is left. In short, this is also the conclusion of Mr Van den Berg, who has examined the financing of the case-law. This output financing has gone through and the notorious PMJ model is subject to a certain setback. A model is not an oracle from which figures can be taken away without criticism, writes Van den Berg. And yet that model seems compelling as a Roman legion. I would like to hear from the Minister for Legal Protection how he is going to take up Van den Berg's recommendations. And I'd like to hear from the Justice Minister what he's going to do to improve that PMJ model and use it in a better, smarter way. Models are a simplification of reality. And from a minister who presented himself as the Obelix of the rule of law upon his arrival, I expect a very firm stance against Roman legions. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to draw attention to the financing model in the Public Prosecutor's Office. The DA's gonna get some of his money from next year on the basis of production numbers. But today, the prosecution is preventing and disrupting a lot of criminal activity. It keeps a close eye on possible terrorists, for example. This is successful, but also labour-intensive and time-consuming. And it doesn't automatically translate into staff matters. The nature of the work also changes in the fight against organised crime. The D.A. is working with municipalities or with the Tax Administration. If it turns out that a criminal can be better dealt with through tax law or administrative law, it does not result in a criminal case, but it takes a lot of time. In addition, criminal matters are becoming increasingly complex, due to increased digital resources, the fact that the victim is rightly in an increasingly important position, and the growing importance of experts in criminal matters. This complexity makes the work of prosecutors one of the most beautiful jobs in the country, but this includes a good funding system. I am therefore curious to see how the Minister of Justice will make the funding of the Public Prosecutor future-proof, and how he will take into account the findings of Mr Van der Berg. I'd like an extensive response. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna stick with my old love for a while. The D.A.'s having a hard time. Changes at the top and incidents lead to unrest. An organization that takes the measure of others must itself be impeccable. It is a good thing that the D.A. is having the incidents investigated independently and not sticking his head in the sand, but there is a need for clarity and restoration of trust. I therefore have two questions for the Minister of Justice. Can he tell us when the Breeding Commission is finished with its investigation? And how is he going to restore trust in the prosecution, both among civilians and members of the prosecution itself? Mr. Chairman. Justice is for everyone. But does everyone know how to achieve that right? In this context, I welcome, first of all, the letter from the Minister for Legal Protection on registry rights. The court card goes down for small claims. And that is very important for many entrepreneurs. If a customer orders a bank set of €800 and doesn't pay, the shopkeeper doesn't want to download €470 for a ticket to the courtroom. And with this proposal from the Minister, even though he needed a push from Mr Van Nispen, Mr Van Dam and myself, the Registry fees for small claims go down by a third. But that entrance fee isn't the only factor. It is also about whether people have the confidence that our rule of law is there for them, whether the rule of law offers them real solutions and whether they understand what is happening. And with that last thought in mind, last summer I wrote the plan The judge for everyone. Judgments of a judge in an understandable language, a different judiciary and a case law that provides solutions to problems faced by people. Is the Minister for Legal Protection prepared to discuss the D66 action plan, which I will shortly issue, with the Council for Justice and to report to the Chamber on it? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. For access to justice, subsidised legal aid is of great importance. Also for people with a small scholarship, the law must always be accessible. During the previous cabinet of VVD and PvdA there was considerable savings and the discussion about the system stalled. Unfortunately, the consequences are known: many social lawyers now work half of the hours and in fact free, and some throw down the hatchet. It is therefore a good thing that there is now a contour note. The NRC even accused the Minister for Legal Protection of having a vision. I assume that the VVD has been talking about this for a long time. But seriously, I see a first step forward in the contour note. The most important thing for D66 is that low-income people are guaranteed legal aid in all jurisdictions. There will be a legal doctor, who will refer you to an appropriate solution. That general practitioner is not only there for low incomes, but it is accessible to everyone. And you're gonna pay one fixed price for an end result. That's a good thing. This also applies to the fact that the role of the public authorities as a source of unnecessary procedures is being addressed. However, the Minister's letter also raises many questions, because there is still much unclear. For example, what exactly are these legal aid offices going to look like? I don't know yet. And can the Minister make the systematic for his own contributions a little more concrete, so that we can really see what it means for people? And I'm glad to read that the Minister wants better compensation for legal aid workers. He's taking a first step, but how big is that first step and when is it coming? Because the social lawyer has been waiting a long time for an answer. I'd like an extensive reflection from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. My group will be critical of how this plan for people is going to work out in practice. I think it is wise that the Minister wants to introduce his plans gradually. The question is how he's going to take the Chamber into that. I would like him to promise that he will regularly and comprehensively inform the Chamber about the steps, the bottlenecks and also the choices that lie ahead. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go through seamlessly with the migration component. Migration is man-made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u592	On the previous point, Mr Van Nispen has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u593	A short question, because we are still going to have the debate on legal aid. I am pleased that Mr Groothuizen not only sees positive points in the plan but also raises critical questions. I have one specific question on compensation for legal aid workers. Mr Groothuizen asks how big the step is going to be towards this reasonable remuneration, which is not there at the moment. I read that lawyers say: from €105 per point we now go to €108 per point; we often have to work a lot of hours for that. Okay. Could be, so that's a fair question. But I have read it in such a way that this compensation will only increase, apart from the inflation rate of EUR 3, which may be in the form of a reduction in the number of cases. According to Mr Groothuizen, have I read that correctly and, if so, what does he think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u594	That's how I read it. I understand the Minister wants to work with pilots. At the moment when these pilots produce results and lead to a decline in the use of legal aid, the money that we earn from that remains in the system and goes to those lawyers. That makes me ask the Minister when exactly we are going to see it, because that depends very much on when we get to work on these pilots and when that happens. Hence my question to the Minister at what time that will bring something for the legal profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u595	Does Mr Groothuizen think it is right that it should depend on that? The report of the Van der Meer Committee was similar to the one with the coalition agreement. In the coalition agreement it was agreed that everything would remain within the budgetary framework. Van der Meer said at the same time that EUR 127 million should be added in order to restore these fees to a reasonable level for lawyers. That was over a year ago. Lawyers are dropping out. Mr Groothuizen himself referred to this problem. Does he think it is right to wait until the number of cases has been reduced before lawyers receive reasonable compensation? The Minister himself said in the Gerbrandy debate that lawyers do not receive reasonable remuneration now, but they have to wait even longer. I am not concerned about those lawyers but about those who seek justice, because Mr Grothuizen also knows that they are ultimately the victims of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u596	I share that concern with Mr Van Nispen. It is particularly important that lawyers receive good compensation so that they continue to do the work and those seeking justice can go there. Like I said, this is a small first step. In an ideal world, you always have the means to solve everything at once. We don't have that ideal world, so we have to look for space within the possibilities we have. In any case, I see on paper that this could offer that possibility, but I do have a lot of questions about what that will look like in practice and what the pace of it will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u597	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u598	Mr. Chairman. I was at the migration section. Migration is specific to man, even more so: man would probably have died out if he hadn't had a natural urge to keep looking for a better life. The fact that people leave their country because they don't have a perspective isn't so crazy. The only reason someone on a small rubber boat crosses a dashing sea is because the place where it takes him offers more perspective than the place where he came from. Actually, I think everyone understands that. Yet the image of uncontrolled migration instills fear: fear of loss of control, fear of loss of identity or simply fear of competition in jobs or a home. Mr. Chairman. The combination of a large group of people looking for perspective and the fear that it raises makes migration one of the most discussed themes of our time. But a place for a decent, factual debate is unfortunately less and less. That is a pity and also counterproductive. Migration is not an unmanageable phenomenon of nature; it is a deeply human phenomenon that has shaped our history with opportunities and successes, but also with issues, tensions and bottlenecks. D66 is convinced that we can tackle this issue in a good way, but we must do so together, not only in the Netherlands but also internationally, by investing in good governance and in economic development and employment in countries of origin. By addressing unscrupulous criminals who abuse vulnerable people internationally. And by ensuring that migrants in the country of arrival participate fully. And yes, that includes taking into account the interests of the receiving community. Integration demands something from everyone. D66 believes that we can have this debate in a calm and good way, but only if we do so on the basis of facts and realistic solutions. The Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs therefore recommends an annual report on migration in which facts, bottlenecks, opportunities, dilemmas and solutions can be identified and discussed. Does the Secretary of State share D66's view that's a good idea? Mr. Chairman. In addition to a debate based on facts, it is crucial to maintain acceptance that people who are not allowed to stay are returned more quickly. This is particularly true in the case of people from safe countries who cause nuisance. The government must act decisively against a group of few who ruin it for many. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that the people of those countries who are not entitled to asylum are sent back more quickly and do not cause mess in the meantime? Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday I visited the so-called "intermediate facility" in Drenthe. Status holders stay there for eight weeks before they get a home in the region. In these eight weeks, language, practical knowledge and skills are being developed, so that people can participate more easily and integrate more quickly. Beautiful, because big azc's aren't good for anyone. Small-scale reception, a flexible asylum system and fast participation are key to success. But I was surprised to hear that this is the only provision in the Netherlands. Can the Secretary of State explain that? Because this is what we want, isn't it? This is what we agreed on. Why not many more of these pilots? I kind of miss the sense of urgency. As far as I am concerned, we need to make much more hasty about this. Mr. Chairman. What I also miss is the connection to the labour market. Work is the means to build a future, to integrate and to contribute. From newcomer to Dutchman, and preferably as soon as possible. As far as I am concerned, if people have a great chance of obtaining an asylum permit, the region in which they have the best chance of getting a job should be considered immediately. But that match is still missing. I am therefore charmed by the idea of the Central Statistical Office to use data on people and regions to make a better assessment so that people can be better linked to their future residential region. In Switzerland there is already a successful test. How does the Secretary of State feel about that experiment, about that trial? Is he willing to have this kind of research done in the Netherlands? I'd like a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u599	Mr Fritsma has one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u600	That's right, Mr. Chairman, and it's about speeding up the return of troublemakers. That question is being asked to the cabinet. I would also like to put that question to the D66 Group. I am referring in particular to the D66 Group in Amsterdam, which has tabled a motion or motion. supported that even the illegals of We Are Here, that squatter gang that has been causing nuisance for years, should be protected by D66. Please strengthen yourself from your own party to ensure that troublemakers return to their country of origin more quickly and do not submit such motions in those even illegal squatters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u601	I don't know that motion. I believe that I have taken a clear position. I believe that people who come here and ask for asylum and then commit nuisance or criminal offences should be dealt with through criminal law, where possible, and that the rest should be deployed to return to the country of origin as soon as possible, if that is a safe country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u602	Finally, I would advise you to contact the D66 Group in Amsterdam for a moment, so that motions are omitted to protect those crackling illegals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u603	Mr Fritsma knows that we are a very liberal party. There are all kinds of noises, but I would like to contact my colleagues in Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u604	A brief question: does Mr Groothuizen agree that it is a pity that the IND is being cut? We see that there is now a shortage of staff. Would he like to look with me for a way to find additional resources for the IND? I do have some suggestions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u605	I'm a little afraid that's the same suggestion as Mr Van Nispen's. I've just said that I'm not so charmed about that. I think there are currently vacancies at the IND and people are already being attracted to eliminate the backlogs. I do agree with you that we need to ensure that the IND has enough people so that we can do those procedures as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u606	I think the answer's a little prickly. That won't be necessary at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u607	It's late, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u608	Would it have anything to do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u609	I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u610	Then I won't take it personally. I am simply asking whether Mr Grothuizen agrees with me that it is a pity that the IND is being cut, 36 million, while I think we both want speedy, careful procedures. People are actually being sought and people are being attracted, but that does not mean that cuts are being made. Now, if I make a very thorough proposal to give some extra money to the IND, would D66 be willing to take a good look at it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u611	Yeah, I'm always looking at well-crafted proposals. The answer was not prickly either, but I think that a debate on a budget requires that, if you put financial items on the table, the coverage is also correct. I was just questioning that. I think I have every right to make a comment on that. I look forward with interest to what Mr Van Dijk is coming with. I think Mr Azmani has already explained to him how the capacity of the IND is doing. You have just heard me say things about all kinds of prognosis models: sometimes I question them a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u612	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Den Boer, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u613	Mr. Chairman. Our country is relatively safe. We have great policemen and firefighters. Every day they work hard for our safety. And every day, when I walk into this chamber building, I greet the Royal Marechaussee who protects the chambermates. On behalf of D66 a great word of thanks for their commitment and their passion and for the willingness to carry risks this business entails. But despite their commitment, reality is sometimes harsh. Ambulance workers will have to wear a bulletproof vest from now on. Criminal accounts take place in public, right in front of our eyes. Mayors are busy every day to keep their towns and villages safe, but the reward they receive is serious threats. This makes risks, threats and violence seem very close. That brings me to the question of whether we are making good use of the agent in the district, from all our security organizations, from the fire department and Customs to the Royal Marechaussee, from their eyes and ears, where a lot of knowledge and skills are hidden. Mr. Chairman. Safety is necessary. We agree on that. We also agree that it is necessary for all inhabitants of the Netherlands to feel safe. The core task of the government is therefore to determine who does what. D66 believes that drivers have a sturdy toolbox to combat public order problems and crime, but isn't there a trend towards the mayor's sherrification? We must be careful that the mayors do not gradually take over the functions of detection, because the police and the Public Prosecutor are the appropriate authorities for this. I therefore ask the Minister: does he agree with D66 that there should be a clear vision of the future stability of our security system and cooperation between them? As far as D66 is concerned, the distribution of tasks, roles and powers between the various organisations is also explicitly mentioned. Does he think that society's vision is sufficiently taken into account? If not, how can we take care of this? And what does the police expect from the residents' deployment in the alerting of the problems in the neighborhood? Mr. Chairman. Security is increasingly of a cross-border nature. Our border municipalities and border regions experience this daily. D66 strongly supports international cooperation. The elections to the European Parliament will take place next year. The Dutch can then help shape a Europe that protects everyone's safety. The European Union is also a security union, with far-reaching agreements on criminal cooperation, legal protection and privacy, but also with organisations such as Europol, the European Police College and a European Public Prosecutor's Office. D66 is positive about this development. Crime doesn't stick to borders. We need to work with governments in other countries. In this way, countries can quickly contact each other and act together quickly, for example to prevent a waterbed effect, as in the case of undermining. Last week, we heard from Mayor Aboutaleb that Rotterdam and Antwerp are working together to counter undermining in the ports. D66 considers this to be a good example of cross-border cooperation between authorities. That brings me to the question of how the Minister looks at the future of this cooperation within the European Union. Does he place the emphasis on ensuring the rule of law? Or is he opting for more pragmatic cooperation between the Member States? And what does the Netherlands want to achieve in this area in the European Union in the coming years? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Last summer, the Benelux Treaty on police cooperation was signed. This Convention may work as a model for enhanced cooperation between Member States. D66 welcomes this commitment to cross-border police cooperation, but also notes that the strategic country programme has become obsolete. After all, crime changes from day to day, moves quickly and develops as a fluid network. Does the Minister agree with D66 that it is time for a new strategy for international police cooperation? Does he share D66's view that the main focus should be on cooperation within the European Union? What is the place of Benelux cooperation in this? Mr. Chairman. The police want to be active in neighborhood, web and world. This requires a smart and effective organisation, which rests on a solid basis with a focus on flexibility and innovation. This involves not only more agents, but also, above all, higher-level agents, specialising in new forms of crime. What is the situation, for example, with regard to the knowledge and skills of the police with regard to money laundering? Mr. Chairman. D66 understands very well that information and communication technology is essential for the police. D66 does ask questions about the proliferation of new technology without really seeing if it works. Unfortunately, privacy is still regularly perceived as an obstacle. However, D66 considers compliance with privacy laws essential. We live in a world where the data is teeming. Let's deal with that in a smart way. Does the Minister agree with D66 that the projects should be sufficiently validated before they are introduced to the police? And does the Minister consider that the monitoring of ICT projects is sufficiently guaranteed, now that the ICT Examination Office has taken over this task. Given the proliferation of experiments, is it not time to tighten up the conditions for this? Mr. Chairman. D66 is pleased that this cabinet is structurally investing more in police capacity. This will benefit the recruitment, training and maintenance of police personnel. But only more capacity is insufficient. Safety organisations can only function properly if they themselves are safe and inclusive. Everyone needs to be able to feel at home. Although D66 sees that there are efforts, we also have concerns. Women and people with a non-Western background disappear again through the back door or grow too little within the organization. Part of this must be experienced in the capillaries, also by lhbti'ers who work in the police and fire department. The programme Power of difference is converted into a task for the whole organisation to strengthen the connection with society and fight against discrimination and to make the working culture more inclusive in the police. D66 would like this Minister to evaluate this programme properly. Are these beautiful goals actually achieved? Has the national police managed to anchor inclusivity well throughout the organization? Is it not also a good idea for the Minister to have an independent evaluation carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u614	I would like to come back to what the representative of D66 says about privacy. Because I read in the newspaper that the mayors from Brabant say that privacy inhibits them rather than helps them tackle undermining and other things. The same applies to the police in its innovative approach. Be aware, of course, we must respect all the regulations in this area. Isn't it true that with this approach D66 first anchors out to get the speed out, while you also have to look at some new developments and try what is possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u615	It seems obvious to me that we have a privacy law, the GDPR, which entered into force in May and that all government organisations must comply with the requirements of that legislation. Given the huge accumulation of new projects, one might say, and given the existing ICT, innovation and so on in the police, it is quite a challenge to be able to meet the GDPR, which meets these privacy standards. We really need to pay attention to that. That has to be consistent. I also know that the police are monitoring that themselves. We shouldn't fly off the bend.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u616	But that doesn't make you deaf to what all kinds of mayors in Brabant and all kinds of other places say? They say that this is a major obstacle to their effective approach to crime. Again, you have to deal with it responsibly. But by putting privacy as the most important value, you're putting other interests under the carpet to a high degree, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u617	I thought the CDA was a strong advocate of privacy. That's the first thing. Secondly, of course, I have listened carefully to these mayors. I have also listened very carefully to the chairman of the Personal Data Authority. He says it doesn't have to be a problem at all. The GDPR doesn't have to be an obstacle. In fact, there are all kinds of ways to design technology in such a way that privacy is included.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u618	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u619	Today, as MPs, we were presented with a petition about violence against Ihbti'ers. We were called upon urgently. Lhbti violence is still an urgent problem. The action programme on this is taking far too long. When can we expect this from the Minister? Because whether you're a firefighter or a woman, a police officer, an officer of the FIOD or a member of the Royal Marechaussee, diversity is important. Accepting it is even more important if necessary. Because precisely the acceptance of shared values is the main foundation on which individuals can be free to differ. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Security is a great asset, but our rule of law only thrives on a solid balance between justice and security. A rule of law requires constant maintenance. One must behave not only according to the letter of the law, but also according to the spirit. Citizens of the Netherlands must experience that the rule of law is there for them. It's their right to privacy, their privacy, their right to be all of themselves. These are all rights that underpin the democratic rule of law that D66 will always stand for. I thank the Minister for his attention and look forward to the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u620	Thank you, Mrs Den Boer. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u621	Mr. Chairman. A new day also calls for a new clock. Thank you. We have talked a lot about freedom of expression today, and since I have been a Member of Parliament for 12 years, I know how important it is that you enjoy the right to free speech every day. At the same time, this right is constantly under pressure, sometimes because we make proposals ourselves, but sometimes also because organised crime is working very hard to undermine that free word, the free press. I therefore find it terrible and unacceptable that John van den Heuvel, among others, cannot do his work anymore, that he cannot attend any more live broadcasts and that he is forced to call elsewhere. Where does that end? Can't he go to Pauw later? Can't he be at AT5 anymore? Is there nowhere else he can do his job because criminals are becoming more dangerous, increasingly closing the net to journalists? He's not the only journalist threatened. That is why I ask Minister Grapperhaus: what are we going to do to ensure that journalists like John van den Heuvel can simply do their job? The moment we accept that they can no longer do their job, we are all actually silenced. Without journalists, politicians cannot do their jobs and the free word is being smothered, and we should not accept that. I'd like a response from the Minister. I have another question: what rights do victims, those who are threatened, have in such a situation? Do they have a right to know where the threat comes from? That is also a question for the Minister. The free speech is also about how we deal with the free word ourselves. There has been a lot of discussion today about the demonstrations that have been taking place over the past weekend. There have been strong words about it; that it might be wise to put freedom of opinion in the refrigerator a few weeks a year. I simply want to know from this cabinet whether they agree or whether, however uncomfortable demonstrations may be, they always stand for the right to express themselves. In this case, I would like to put that question to Minister Grapperhaus. Mr. Chairman. Victimhood isn't something you prefer. As victims themselves say, it's something you're going through, you're going to learn to deal with, or you're going to survive. I received a response today from someone who was abused within the community of Jehovah's witnesses. She says she's a survivor of sexual abuse. I speak about weekly, sometimes daily, victims who still have day-to-day experiences and especially the feeling of impotence, because they do not feel heard, because they do not feel seen and because they do not feel seriously treated, and not only in recent years, but sometimes for 10, 20, 30 years. For this reason, many of us in the Chamber are trying to give a voice to those victims. I know that the cabinet is in the same position and has made a number of serious proposals, but I do feel that it is not enough, because silence continues. We saw at the Roman Catholic Church that it was covered up to the highest level. We see it with the Jehovah's witnesses. People don't want to talk to the prosecutor, they don't want to talk to the police, they don't want an independent investigation, they look away, they stop and they cover it up under a big cover of religion. We also see it in other religious expressions, such as the Buddhist teachers, where the same activities and abuses take place again: cover-up, look away and cover-up of religion. That's not okay. Mr. Chairman. I've been thinking about what else it takes to break that culture of silence. That is why I have three specific proposals. I know that the obligation to report is being investigated, but I believe that there should be a prior obligation to report, with a code of reporting, just as we know in child care. Then it is not up to the victims, but really it is up to the authorities to go to an independent inspection, to report that there are suspicions of sexual abuse. My second proposal is to work by default within religious institutions with statements about behaviour. I know that's common ground in some churches, but I want it to be used more widely. Finally, my specific question to the Minister is whether we want to investigate how a professional ban can be applied to religious predecessors and leaders. We have seen it with the Jehovah's witnesses: internal justice was carried out there and then they were moved to another community. That can't be the intention. That is why I ask the Minister, Minister Dekker in this case, to see how we can use these proposals to break the culture of silence, give victims a voice and show them that religion never goes above legislation and that victims always go above religion. Because this is so very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u622	A brief question from Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u623	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you. I would also like to thank Mrs Kuik for her commitment on this point. I think this is very important. I had one question. I read in the Algemeen Dagblad a presentation of your proposal. It said that you wanted to propose in concrete terms that I should like to call it 'confessional secrecy'. I can't hear that right now. Or I don't quite understand you. Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u624	I got a fair question from the journalist: what if the duty of reporting clashes with the secret of confession? My answer was: how can there be a secret of confession when it comes to children, to young adults; then who is there to protect them? And that is why I said: the secret of confession must then be broken, because there is such a relationship of dependence and because children do not have their own voice; and so that that cover cannot be maintained with a secret of confession. I do think it should be broken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u625	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u626	Then I would like, through Mrs Kuik, to have a statement from the Minister on what is possible on that point. I do not know whether this can be done, regardless of whether it should be done in all cases. Because sometimes you have to deal with doctors who know about sexual abuse that has taken place. That is, in fact, the same question. And if you find this when something like that gets out to a pastor, if that's what he's told, shouldn't you think a doctor should tell you that, too, if he knows about it, or a lawyer, within the framework of professional secrecy? These are, I think, the same questions that deserve the same effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u627	If you have a suspicion of something like that, I think you should at least go to an instance and say that you have that suspicion; so that you can present it and discuss how you deal with it together. I think that's very important. What is happening all the time now is that religion is being used as a cover for all kinds of abuses - not one year, but for years. We know about it and it is our joint responsibility to see how we can help to combat those abuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u628	Let me make a final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u629	I'd like to see... Anyway, I've already had my contribution. I would also like to put this question to Mrs Kuik, which I put to the cabinet. I think this is relevant. I agree with you that you need to protect every child, but we need to think carefully about how to shape that in the construction that Mrs. Kicken sees in front of her, if you touch that secret of confession. So I think you should take a look at the professional secrecy of doctors, as well as the secret that lawyers should be able to have in the interests of their client. I'm not gonna fix this now either, but I think it's part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u630	If you say that you have a serious question and you want me to pass it on to the Minister by this way, my answer is: of course I want it. I take that very seriously. That is why it is good to start this debate. And that's why I'm asking the Minister that question. Mr. Chairman. It's about victimization. We've jointly asked as a Chamber to conduct an investigation within the Jehovah's witnesses, into the reports that are now in place. But I am concerned about the way this research is now being carried out. I think it's too narrow, and it doesn't match the motion we tabled. For it is now only about declaration readiness, while we had also asked for more insight into the underlying pattern, into the church rules, into the customs and structures. I don't see any of that in that investigation right now. I don't think that's the intention. I would therefore like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. As a general rule, I continue to draw attention in this case to Minister Grapperhaus for the treatment of victims, both when a report is made and in the further process. I continue to receive serious signals, whether it be from women who have been victims of sexual violence or from people within the Ihbtqi community. It is not taken seriously and it is said: do not press charges. We have recently seen it again in the context of very small children, where it is difficult but also said: do not report it. I think you should always be able to file a report. Whether a case can't be brought to a conclusion is step two, but there is still a long way to go to make all the detectives and police officers of the Netherlands aware that the treatment of victims in the first phase is crucial and that this can still be done better. Every week we get stories of victims who have to be said that they have not gone well enough. Mr. Chairman. I want to talk about access to justice. In my opinion, you should always think about how to improve the social justice system and the legal system in general. Still, I'm worried. I'm afraid the offer will be very narrow if you start from legal aid packages. There may also be cherrypicking; choose the best cherry you like and don't handle the less pleasant things. Who guarantees that and who chooses to do so? The fees in front of it have already been discussed here. I really want to debate this much deeper and more comprehensively. Let me now say that I agree with the concerns and questions that have been raised by several colleagues here, with the idea that we really need to talk about it at another time. Mr. Chairman. I would like to mention a few points on organised crime. I talked about the Wet Bibob. I really think it is a missed opportunity that this legislation at first instance is not too strong when it comes to sharing information that mayors really need to do their job. I'd like a response to that point. Then drug dumping. I think it is good that the money remains available for the time being. I also understand, if I understand the cabinet correctly, that people are looking at structural solutions. I welcome that. I would like confirmation on this point. Mr President, I have to finish. Mrs Van Toorenburg made a right point, namely that she is working on legislation on the filming of victims. I'd like to join in, so put my hand out for cooperation. She was also right to make a point about recidivism and alcohol. As we happen to have an initiative proposal for this, I hope to get a hand out of it so that we can work together. We need to be sure that it's really just once but never again when someone, dangerously, goes wrong with alcohol in traffic, to prevent subsequent victims. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u631	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u632	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. The Netherlands is still very high in international rankings when it comes to the state of the rule of law, but this rule of law calls for maintenance, as Mrs Den Boer just pointed out. That's what you do when you're speaker number sixteen on such a night; sometimes there's a duplication. Mr. Chairman. In recent years, but also in recent weeks, a lot of attention has been paid to this. I see that the cabinet is taking a number of steps in the right direction. For example, additional investment is being made in police capacity in order to better distribute the workload and organise reinforcement in all regions. The Cabinet also acknowledges that the financing of justice is no longer sufficient. But recognizing the problem is one, working on a solution is two. The conversations about this are still ongoing. I call on the Minister for Legal Protection to reach an agreement quickly with the case law. Another concern lies with the state's attorney's office. There too, the workload is high and the unrest in the organisation worries us a great deal. The reports that there is a culture of fear within the state's attorney's office don't leave us untouched. How does the Minister look at this and what does he intend to do about it? Mr. Chairman. One of the possibilities of getting justice closer to people is the use of neighbourhood judges. It was a wish of the Christian Union and we now see all over the country tasting with neighborhood judges, in Rotterdam with the rule judge and in The Hague with the district court. Noord-Nederland had the office judge and who knows it will come back, but there we still have the video judge. In practice, there is now a need for an experimental provision in the law, as agreed in the coalition agreement. Can the Minister tell us how far this is going? We hope that this can be speeded up. Mr. Chairman. Then access to justice. The Christian Union considers it important for everyone to have good access to justice. It is a fundamental right that must be protected by the government, including for those who have little to spend, otherwise only people with a good income could take up a lawyer to defend themselves. And that is precisely why we know the system of subsidised legal aid. The Minister has now shared his outlines for a revision of the system with the Chamber. We'll go into it later. I see that the Minister is taking really strong steps in this regard when it comes to addressing the government as the cause of many procedures. I think it is important that we really do this. At the same time, I see that it is a letter on the main lines that really requires further elaboration. After all, what exactly will this own contribution be for the seeker? How are these legal aid packages gonna look? What exactly do the plans mean for the reimbursement of legal aid providers? The Minister wants to work out the plans further. I ask him which parties he will involve and how he will take the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u633	One question, Mrs Buitenweg. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u634	Thank you, Madam President. Then I'll keep it very simple. In what way does the contour note comply with what was agreed in the coalition agreement, so that it should also be a result of the three reports?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u635	I think it is a good thing that we are going to have a more detailed discussion on how the plans for the revision of the system are to be worked out at a different time. In the contours as they are now laid down, all jurisdictions are included, which was an important point for us. In addition, there is talk in the outlines of the remuneration for lawyers, for legal aid providers. This is also one of the important points raised in the reports. It's a letter on main lines. It stands or falls with the effect. And that's what we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u636	But where did those reports say the entire system had to go overboard? Is it not true that these reports warn of the risks of introducing a tendering system?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u637	What I said was that we too have some questions about the implementation of a whole series of plans. I have just mentioned a number of points. That's what I called the legal aid packages. How exactly are they designed? What's in there? What consequences will that have, for example, for the own contribution that justice seekers would have to pay? These are questions which I think we should discuss with the Minister and which need to be answered. Much is still unclear when it comes to the impact. So we'll follow that critically.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u638	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u639	Mr. Chairman. Sometimes a decision comes along that you know touches the heads and hearts. In this case, this is about the police. Policemen do their work with heart and soul, even though the workload is high. In their work, they often have to deal with far-reaching situations. They often have to act in a moment. Mental caregivers in the police provide guidance and help to police people with moral dilemmas and ethical questions. I am therefore pleased that we were able to hear last week that the support for this will be extended from 1 fte to 15 fte, and that it will be available for all units. The Minister has been working on the appeal from the Chamber and the police unions. I am convinced that this commitment will make a difference in the daily work of the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u640	One question, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u641	However, I would like to return briefly to the question of access to justice in relation to the revision or adaptation. In my opinion, one of the proposals is that we will be paying differently: not so much how many procedures are being carried out by a lawyer, but whether they are being carried out successfully. Do you think that's fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u642	In the current system, I see that there are a number of perverse incentives. If there is a system review, I do not want new perverse incentives to be created in a new system. I think that these are questions that we should be aware of and that we should also address in the debate with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u643	Please continue. The debate on legal aid is coming back. It's the same answer every time, even to previous questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u644	Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union supports the government's approach to drug crime and undermining, including specific attention to synthetic drugs. That is what a world is hiding behind: liquidations, exploitation, intimidation, violence, money laundering and fraud. In addition to the supply of drugs, demand also plays a role. In the view of the Christian Union there is also a responsibility for users, and for the organizers of festivals, for example, where there is a lot of use. Is the Minister of Justice prepared to look with his colleague in office at a coordinated approach, in which users and organisers are also reminded of their responsibility? For example, we can work to raise awareness of the serious crime that lies behind such a pill with a smiley face on it. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the government's commitment to trafficking in human beings. We've seen the plan of action. That is still under discussion. I would like to draw attention to a few of these issues. First, the exit programs for prostitutes. An extension scheme has been agreed for the grant scheme. It should be a nationwide network, but the current offer of exit programmes should also be maintained. But we have received signals that, for example, in Amsterdam, The Hague and Groningen there are real gaps. Aid organisations sometimes receive only half the year before. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look at that again, to see how the need can be met? Because it can't be that we're helping less women there than it's supposed to be. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the Roma community and the approach to child exploitation. The national approach against the trafficking and exploitation of Roma children has stopped. In 2015, 40 children were removed from an exploitation situation. This year we see that there are only 20. This specific target group also requires specific attention. Victims aren't reporting. They're real felonies you should be looking for. Is the Secretary of State prepared to use more capacity to deal with exploitation and child trafficking in the Roma community within the additional capacity of detectives for trafficking in human beings? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the label "human trafficking free municipality." The CDA brought that up earlier. 95% of municipalities have no specific policy to deal with trafficking in human beings. The Christian Union wants to encourage this, and such a mark could help. It is a label for a municipality which has an anti-human trafficking policy with a concrete plan, which focuses on prevention, detection and assistance, and which seeks cooperation with the catering industry, education and banks. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look at such an instrument? Mr. Chairman. Then the subject of reparation law. The Christian Union welcomes the Minister's intention to give recovery law a better place within the judicial process. Can we understand his letter in such a way that he will actually involve the bill we have received on this issue in the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure? Within the current legislation, everything is regulated for recovery law, but in practice there are considerable differences in referring to mediation by police officers, prosecutors and judges, but also through victim support and parole. The Christian Union would like to ask the Minister to further strengthen the application of recovery law within the current laws and regulations and to counteract the differences that exist now in referring to mediation. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union is deeply concerned about the freedom of churches to broadcast church services online and the shaping of church life. That must not be obstructed by the State. Various churches have informed the Christian Union that the application of the GDPR causes uncertainty. Churches are concerned about whether they can still call themselves sick in the divine service if it is broadcast, and whether a divine service can still be recorded and broadcast on the open internet, or whether it should disappear behind a digital wall. The implementation of the GDPR may then be at odds with the freedom of churches to shape church life. The legal text does not clarify this. I would like to ask the Cabinet to consult with the faith communities in order to find a workable solution for the online broadcasting and streaming of the divine services, including the public character of divine services. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make two more points. Firstly, the concerns of the Christian Union about the consequences of gambling and the risks of gambling addiction. In Denmark we have seen that 46% more problematic gambling addicts have emerged compared to 2016. We don't have to go that way. I would like to ask the Minister if he is prepared to come up with a gaming addiction plan and a monitor that reports annually on the nature, extent and problems of gambling addiction, with particular attention being paid to the vulnerable target group of young adults aged 18-24. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. I'll close with the collection register. We made important agreements on this in the coalition agreement, but last week the cabinet reported that this delay is growing. The Minister of Justice has a role to play here. I would like to ask him how he is going to work on this and what timetable is included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u645	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind, also on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u646	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At this late hour I am going to draw attention to three important dilemmas and issues of migration, if the cabinet can still draw attention to them. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I think, the most poignant thing, namely the terrible drowning in the Mediterranean, but also the poignant situation in detention camps in Libya. I ask the cabinet what it can do to close those detention camps in Libya. We have been there as a committee on migration and have seen the terrible situation there. Mr. Chairman. The same applies to the harrowing situation on the Greek islands, such as Lesbos and Samos. I keep mentioning it in every debate. What means of pressure do we have on Greece and what possibilities do we have to improve the humanitarian situation there? What will the Netherlands do, together with the other EU countries, to stop the suffering there? I hope that we will not get the same answer again, namely that Greece has to shoulder its responsibilities, because it is happening on European territory. The third challenge in the area of migration is the signing of the Marrakesh Declaration. The Pact lays down a number of principles on migration that we, as Christian Union, are very much in agreement with. Irregular migration is being addressed, human trafficking is being tackled, the root causes of migration is being addressed, the saving of lives at sea is being pointed out and humane care is being driven in the region. At the same time, the sovereignty of the participating countries is a starting point, including for the Christian Union. The Pact would also be non-legally binding. It is also in line with the principles of sovereignty in order to sign that non-legally binding pact. However, there are questions on that last point. Can the Secretary of State give a clear answer to these questions, so that we know where we really stand with this agreement? As a Member State, do we, as the Netherlands, simply have the power to pursue our own migration policy? I'd like to get a response to that point. Then the converts, the Ihbtis and their assessments. We received a letter from the Secretary of State about that. What's actually gonna change? Are things of converts going to be re-assessed if, for example, no distinction has been made between passive and active conversions or if they have previously been asked whether they have made a careful consideration of religions and currents? The Secretary of State does pay attention to this when it comes to the assessment of lhbtis, to see if the choice they have made, the coming out, has been a clear awareness process and has undergone a way of self-acceptance. But when it comes to converts and the two aspects I have just mentioned, the letter from the Secretary of State does not point that out. I hope that these aspects will also give the Secretary of State the opportunity to look at these matters again. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State on that point. This concerns in particular page 2 of the letter of 13 November. I read that the pilot in Den Bosch will not be completed until next summer. This concerns the use of expertise within the IND. Is that really supposed to wait till the summer? This pilot started early this year. I'd like to hear if we can speed this up. How can rejected asylum seekers still challenge the assessment if, according to the letter, the IND is considered to be the sole expert and the opinion of other experts is largely disregarded? There is little to expect from the judge on this point, which the IND considers to be the sole expert. And what actually shows that the IND is carrying out an overall credibility assessment? I like to get answers to these questions. Finally, Mr President. What about the Rural Foreigners Facilities for Executed Persons who cannot return to their country of origin? Are they really gonna start now? We've been waiting a year for it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u647	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. Oh, Mr. Jasper van Dijk has one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u648	Yeah, it's just a small question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u649	Yeah, that's how I know you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u650	But Mr Voordewind has spoken a rather firm language about Mr Azmani's proposal on discretionary power, namely: that is not going to happen with the Christian Union in this cabinet. I would like to hear him repeat that in this Chamber. So let me be clear: if Mr Azmani makes a proposal to this effect in his second term and it is adopted, then the Christian Union will leave this cabinet. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u651	He had a simple question, said Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u652	But it's gonna take some explaining, Mr. Chairman. For I have indeed said that this is not a good plan by Mr Azmani. If we really want to reduce the role of the Secretary of State, then we will have to look at the reasons why this task is so difficult at the moment. In this context, I also referred to the extension of the children's pardon, which could indeed help with that relief. If Mr Azmani and the VVD would like to talk about that, then today rather than tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u653	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u654	Yeah, I find that very interesting, too, so I'd like to be in those kind of negotiations. But if Mr Azmani is not prepared to do so, and his proposal is taken over unilaterally by the cabinet. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u655	In this house, I don't think it's so much about what the cabinet wants. We have a parliamentary democracy here. That means that a majority of the Chamber should then want to do so. I don't see that happening so soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u656	"He doesn't say it," says Mr Van Dijk. I would like to repeat that, Madam President. Mr Voordewind also referred to the Committee's trip to Libya and Tunisia. We also discussed this earlier in the evening, following the report by Mr Azmani. What conclusion has Mr Voordewind drawn following that visit on these migration deals, which the government agreement is so full of?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u657	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u658	I think we have all heard the same answers from the Minister in Tunisia. In Libya, by the way, we certainly do not need to talk about it. That minister said, "This question is totally irrelevant." In other words, we firmly believe that there was no room for the issue of a broad migration deal. That doesn't mean nothing's possible. We have just heard that there is still a great deal to be done. Perhaps Mr Van Ojik, like myself, is very happy that there are other possibilities, such as strengthening the coastguard, legal migration and................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u659	It could be. That may not apply to all these points. We may have different opinions about the Coast Guard. But what is politically interesting is the question of what conclusion you draw for what was agreed in the coalition agreement, namely that we would look for migration deals, so that we could send people who apply for asylum in Europe back to countries through which they have been drawn. The government agreement talks about such migration deals. The Tunisian Minister has apparently said that this is not the issue, or something like that. But I also want to know what Mr Voordewind concludes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u660	We find it irrelevant. That means you have to look at alternatives. I know that Mr Van Ojik is a little disappointed, because otherwise GroenLinks might have joined a coalition. But these migration deals aren't happening. So we don't have to think about it any further. We are thinking together with the Foreign Minister about what is possible. I hope GroenLinks will think about that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u661	Can I make something right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u662	Yes, you may correct something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u663	Mr Voordewind's assumption that I am disappointed is extremely incorrect. I've always argued against these kinds of migration deals. I think they're wrong. Mr Voordewind also knows that I think they are wrong. He assumes that I am disappointed now that he has heard in Tunisia what I have been saying for a long time, namely that these agreements are nonsense. But that's not a disappointment to me. I don't want to be triumphant about it either, but he's almost inviting me to do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u664	No, this point has been made clear to you, Mr. Van Ojik. One question, Mr. Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u665	Mr Voordewind once again referred to an extension of the children's pardon, even though it was in an interrupting debate. Does Mr Voordewind realise that the asylum seekers' families he is referring to simply have a legal obligation to leave? Does the Christian Union or does it not agree that this legal obligation to leave should simply be complied with?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u666	As Mr Fritsma well knows, we have a long-term children's scheme here. If families and children staying here for more than five years participate in their expulsion, cooperate in the procedure and remain in the eyes of the government, this will give children who are rooted in the Netherlands the opportunity to stay in the Netherlands. The problem is, of course, that we all know that the criterion of participation is applied so strictly that very few children are covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u667	This discussion has also been very frequent. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u668	Yes, but I still can't get an answer to this question. These asylum seekers' families, which Mr Voordewind is referring to as an extension of the children's pardon, have a legal obligation to leave. Does the Christian Union or does it not think that this legal obligation to leave should be complied with? That is a very relevant question, Mr President. Here is a spokesman for a government party, and it is quite something if it simply does not dare to say that the legal obligation to leave must be respected in the case of rejected asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u669	I understand that Mr Fritsma has never been in favour of the children's pardon, in short. That disappoints him again. But it's there. There were parties who wanted to abolish it and there were other parties who wanted to keep it, but it is still there. Our request and plea has always been to look at a wider application of the existing regime. That has always been our commitment. So yes, that's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u670	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u671	Madam President. The problems with the police are huge. But I won't talk about that tonight, because that debate comes with the evaluation of the national police. What I do want to talk about are the victims. The 50PLUS Group congratulates the Minister for Legal Protection on his strengthened victim policy. With our approval, we have noted the improvements in the recovery of damage, the better treatment of victims during the session and the victim-oriented work in the execution of a sentence. We have also noted with interest the investigation into a possible extension of the obligation to report and we welcome the proposed public campaign to encourage victims of sexual violence to press charges. The fight against crime begins with a declaration, and that is where the victim's recognition begins. Victim surveys are now monitoring the extent of crime. This shows that the willingness to report is falling further. Does the Minister agree with 50PLUS that the willingness to report should be increased in a general sense? Can the campaign be extended to report in general? Every year, there's a tax administration campaign to report revenue. Isn't that what it would be like to report a crime? Of course, this includes the fact that you can actually file a complaint when you have decided to do so. We've already launched the idea of the special reporter. Does the Minister see the benefits of this combined with his own proposals to increase the willingness to report? And not only for the elderly, there must be a police booth nearby, as is the case for many others. It is incomprehensible that an earlier motion of 50PLUS for one police station or one police point per municipality was too much to ask for. It's common knowledge that as a suspect, you have the right to an attorney. A suspect shall be informed of his rights. A system of picket messages has been set up to have a suspect assisted by a lawyer. But what about the victim? Victims of a serious crime, such as aggravated assault or a sex crime, are also entitled to an attorney. But do they know that? Does it ever occur to you that a victim in charge knows that he can call in a lawyer's help? And what does the Minister think about when victims of a capital crime or rape, who have the right to an attorney, come in and report a picket report to a victim's attorney? I'd like a response. Access to justice and justice is enshrined in our Constitution. And yet it is good not to go directly to court in a conflict. Sometimes mediation leads to better results, but the way to justice must always be open to those who want it. 50PLUS is concerned about the Minister's proposals for the legal aid system. The Dutch order of lawyers warns that access to justice is hindered for people with a small wallet. Judges and prosecutors also question the plans for revision of legal aid. Access to justice seems to be becoming more limited. We think this is a worrying matter, because a rule of law that is not accessible to everyone is not in fact a rule of law. We would like a comprehensive explanation of these intentions. Our questions are as follows. Is it true that there will be legal aid packages? Is it true that these legal aid packages do not always provide the opportunity to refer the dispute to the court? Is it true that these packages can soon be offered by private insurers? There seems to be a comparison with market forces in the healthcare system. What about people who don't take out insurance and can't afford to go to court on their own? Is the way to the judge still open for them? Do you have to and can everyone take out insurance? We are all the more concerned because 60% of all cases involving subsidised legal aid are cases against the government. Good legal aid and access to justice are therefore essential for those seeking justice to stand up against that powerful government. Surely it cannot be that the same government is going to make access to justice more difficult? I'd like a response. Then there's the Marrakesh Pact. We regret that the Secretary of State did not engage the Chamber on his own initiative and actively in the Marrakesh Pact. The Pact is too far-reaching to want to settle outside parliament. Even if it is not a treaty and it might not be binding, migration is a subject that is at the heart of social interest and causes unrest. I'd like a response. The pact may not be legally binding, but it is certainly not non-binding. It is said that the Pact can force countries of origin to take their nationals back, but the countries of origin can force us to hold migrants with the same pact. We read in Objective 5 that we, the countries of destination, must use routes for illegal immigrants to give them legal status. If we continue to zoom in on the content of the Pact, we will see a number of issues that need to be addressed at international level as soon as possible. It is about investing in countries of origin to prevent migration, combating smuggling, protecting migrants from forced labour, international cooperation in personal documents and forcing them to be taken back by countries of origin. The 50PLUS Group would like to see binding agreements on these matters. The Pact is too non-binding on this. Of course, the Netherlands can also take action when it comes to taking migrants back, for example by stopping financial support and development aid to the country of origin. On the positive side, there is a long list of things that my group does not support. I would like to mention a few: the unilateral emphasis on the rights of migrants, the unilateral emphasis on the obligations of countries of destination, the potentially far-reaching consequences for internationalisation of the labour market, and the impact on employment both in the Netherlands and in the countries of origin. These workers are needed in their own country, aren't they? We're not planning a brain drain from these countries to the Netherlands, are we? Then there is the possibility of restricting freedom of expression because criticism of migration is silenced, the inevitable increase in migration to the Netherlands and Europe, and the assignment to us as a destination country to adapt to the cultures of countries of origin. Shouldn't that be the other way around? The Pact agrees that a number of intentions are laid down in national policies. The non-binding pact will gradually be anchored in national policies and legislation. Does the Secretary of State dare to indicate which parts he is going to turn into policy? The list of countries that choose not to cooperate in implementing the Pact is growing almost every day. Even Germany is now in doubt. It is mainly countries of destination that drop out. Well, that's a good thing to think about. It also has consequences for the countries of destination that do not decline. Does the migratory pressure increase for us if we don't drop out? Tonight, former VVD party leader Frits Bolkestein, the party of the Secretary of State, also called on the cabinet not to take over the pact. It was good to hear from the VVD colleague here in the Chamber tonight that there are serious doubts there too. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS wants us to withdraw from the pact despite some good intentions. 50PLUS has serious concerns. First, we need a vision of what we mean by desirable and unwanted migration and whether there is a need for an upper limit of migration. Is the Minister prepared to launch a wide-ranging social debate on border migration? As regards the anti-lhbti crimes of violence, I agree with many of my colleagues' questions. Finally, a comment on drug crime, particularly in my own region of Brabant/Zeland. There are enormous problems there. Drug crime takes place in ordinary homes between often unsuspecting people. It is a crime that is unsatisfying and undermines society and democracy. A total of EUR 24.5 million is available for this region. This is necessary, but will the region also be able to achieve better results with its own experimental approach? Madam President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u672	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u673	Madam President. Today, yesterday, a lot of subjects have been brought to our attention during this debate. Of course, it is about a multitude of subjects, but many of them have to do with very important values: justice and security. These are important values for every citizen at any time. The mission is to strengthen it over and over again. As the wise king Solomon said in the book of Proverbs, righteousness exalts a people; but the opposite, namely injustice and sin, is a disgrace to nations. The question is how to make the Netherlands safer. The SGP wants to make an extra effort in the fight against trafficking in human beings, which is a serious violation of human dignity. There's nothing new under the sun. The slave trade may have been abolished, human traffickers continue to work their nets to catch unsuspecting people. Then let's make sure they run into the light. The Programme Against Trafficking in Human Beings provides the right impetus, but there are also concerns. The National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings and CoMensha shall appoint them. CID and the D.A.'s office dropped the number of cases by a third. How can we ensure that more convictions are actually followed? There is a fear that organisations in youth care and care coordinators will report cases because of the General Data Protection Regulation. What is actually happening to ensure that all notifications are made in the right place? In the meantime, there are several legislative proposals to combat illegal prostitution. But legislative proposals that don't become law don't have any effect. This route has been going on for about ten years now. How is speed made now? How can municipalities be prevented from leaning back until an amended law comes into effect? Mr. Chairman. The second point to make the Netherlands safer is to strengthen the fight against drugs. The production and trafficking of drugs are inextricably linked to crime. I have already indicated that the SGP thinks it is a wrong idea to start weed experiments. It's embarrassing that a small country has grown so big in drug crime. The chance of taking drugs is too small, the penalty is too low and the proportion of drug use is too high. How can we be confident that this cabinet is really going to reverse this trend? The third point is that the recommendations of the Hoekstra Committee must be implemented vigorously. It has been three years since the Hoekstra Committee published a report on everything that has gone wrong in the Bart van U. In the interim report, Mr Hoekstra pointed out the slow implementation of the necessary measures. Do not let the sense of urgency slip away again, but let us see the advice as an additional encouragement to work on that implementation with great urgency and urgency. How is that guaranteed? We are curious about the evaluation and implementation of our motion on pre-sorting for a wider DNA law. How's that going? Mr. Chairman. I come to the final point when it comes to how can the Netherlands become safer? In the fight against terrorism, we spoke in the spring about unwanted foreign influence on Dutch mosques that can lead to radicalisation here. What about the measures announced? I also tabled a motion with Mrs Karabulut on parliamentary questioning on this subject. That motion has been held, also pending the government's plans, but I am considering putting that motion to the vote shortly. How can the rule of law be strengthened? That too is an important issue in this debate. The most fundamental fundamental right is the protection of human life. Questions of life and death require a great deal of care. Professor Paul Frissen rightly asked in a recently published book the SGP's opinion that this is also about the State's monopoly of violence in matters where euthanasia is applied and that you could not just accept a review committee as a form of lay justice. According to Frissen, at least a prior judicial test would be necessary. What is the Minister's response to this? The SGP also advocates strengthening the criminalisation of suicide aid in order to prevent information on suicide powders and the spread of suicide manuals. I would also like to hear the reaction of the cabinet. In a rule of law, it is important that justice can be found and spoken in good time. The waiting time in civil justice and in digital matters would increase enormously in some districts. Does the Minister recognise this development and share our view that this is undesirable? How can these waiting times be reduced? Mr. Chairman. Then guaranteeing children's interests. There are endless technological opportunities for people with a child's desire, but are they also in the interests of the children themselves? We must be careful that the pain of unwanted childlessness is not turned into another pain, which has been given away from an existence without roots, or even sold. Fortunately, there are also more and more critical voices. Recently, in an opinion story in the NRC, there was a call not to break the essential link between parents and biological children. Disconnecting the biological bond between parent and child via surrogate structures is difficult to see as necessary in the best interests of the child. We have similar questions when amending the model regulations on ivf carriership. Does the government also want these notions to be explicitly reflected in the opinion on the report of the State Committee on Parenthood? Finally. We have discussed in detail in this house the GDPR, the European rules on privacy protection. We notice that smaller institutions, such as schools, associations and small businesses as well as churches, suffer from the GDPR. Mrs Van der Graaf also mentioned concrete examples, including with regard to churches, questions about the broadcasting of services and so on. We still see a great deal of uncertainty about the practical application of these rules. We also tabled a motion at the time on the relief of small organisations, churches and civil society organisations. My question is what is actually being done about the implementation of this motion. Mr President, so much for my first contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u674	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop, on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u675	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make four points on asylum policy. First of all, I could go into very detail about the Global Compact, the treaty that should be signed in Marrakesh. We believe that this is a very one-sided pact, which regulates a great deal in favour of migrants. It makes no distinction between legal and illegal migrants. However, the Pact does not regulate enough with regard to the return of rejected asylum seekers. Maybe we'll think we've settled something about mandatory return. I have once been in the process of proposing to me the case of a rejected asylum seeker, an illegal immigrant, who does not wish to return. You're gonna get stuck. So you just can't get rid of it. On the contrary, as a recipient country, you have additional obligations to treat him on an equal footing as a legal migrant. I'm not going to go into this any further. There has been enough talk about it. The comments we wish to make have actually already been made. My appeal to the cabinet is brief: follow countries like Austria, the United States, Australia and a growing number of other countries and do not sign this pact in this form. Mr. Chairman. Legal aid has something to do with that. The financing of legal aid may be an important cause of the process of transition to asylum procedures. In the Netherlands, more than 6,000 foreign nationals appeal to the courts every year in a so-called Dublin case, while it is clear that these cases are, in principle, without opportunities. The SGP therefore finds it strange that points for legal aid are granted for this purpose. If I see it correctly, it's a bit difficult to get a good look at it. A lawyer gets four points for a Dublin application and eight points for an appeal. And that is when these things are quite clear and take only a very limited amount of time. In the case of repeated applications, two points can also be obtained and two for an appeal. Can the Secretary of State say why this would be necessary if we know that litigation is pointless and also contrary to the purpose of the system? Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the point of the prayer calls. In an asylum seekers' centre, tensions are rapidly developing between asylum seekers with very different backgrounds. A society with different cultures is vulnerable. As an asylum seeker, you will only have fled an Islamic country and heard the prayer call in your room again. However, as a rule, the COA states that asylum seekers have this right. In our view, that is a little too short. Indeed, the legal right to make prayer calls is laid down with a view to mosques. It is usually about that when we discuss it. It is a bit strange to go through this right to a community area of, for example, an asylum-seekers' centre. I would like a reflection from the Secretary of State on this, including an answer to the question of how this can be contained. Finally, Mr President. My fourth point concerns Greece. I agree with Mr Voordewind on the reception of asylum seekers. There are still appalling circumstances. Especially in view of the winter, which is at the door, you are afraid to wear off. Can the Secretary of State explain where he thinks the bottlenecks are? Is there a lack of resources? Or is there a lack of sense of urgency? Is the EU sufficiently committed to support and enforcement? Mr President, those were my points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u676	I just came back to the right not to have prayer calls for someone who's in an azc. It's about prayer calls for Muslims. I read the interview. So it's already been announced. You gave a great interview about that. I think that the SGP is indeed dealing with the major problems of our society. But let me ask you a serious question about this. You tell me half. You do not mention that the directive states that it can also be amended in consultation. So that right is not absolute. Someone can't say: I set that thing off five times a day, and that is a nuisance to colleagues. If that is the case, it also states that consultation and adjustments are to be made. I think it's a good thing you tell me. So it's not just one-sided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u677	Sure, that's a good addition. That gives me the opportunity and the time to focus on it a little bit more. It is all well arranged on paper, but then when you get into conversation with organisations that are active in asylum seekers' centres, it turns out that this does not work in practice. Then I say: it is such a small community, with so different backgrounds, that you have to take care of it, just for security reasons and to learn to take account of each other, that this cannot be a cause for discussion. Then I say that everyone can experience it in their own way. You can take care of that. You set the alarm and no one gets hurt. That's an excellent way, I think. It's possible. On paper it shouldn't be a problem, but in practice it turns out to lead to troubles sometimes, and you don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u678	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u679	I see Mr Bishop here very often. Then I do not assume that he has had the time to do a valid and reliable study showing that it does not work in practice. So if the question to the rulers is what that is about and if there is any inconvenience, I agree with that. But I think it is rather premature to say that we are going to organise things differently from the political point of view. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u680	I'm a little surprised about this. We do not make statements if we have not verified them sufficiently. We are in contact with organisations working in asylum-seekers' centres. They tell us these kinds of incidents; fortunately not weekly, but it happens. We say that this cannot be the intention, because we want to provide a safe environment for everyone, for the Muslims who come here as asylum seekers, but also for those who follow a different religion, are Christians or do not practise religion. It can't be a nuisance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u681	Thank you. Mr. Azarkan, you will have the floor in a moment. Then you can make your contribution for tonight. I call Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u682	Mr. Chairman. We're getting along. What was it again? The later the evening, the cleaner the people. After that, I believe that 40 more minutes are reserved for the Members of the Forum for Democracy. I don't want to raise expectations with that. I'm going to start my plenary contribution. Let me begin with the accessibility of the legal system and the revision of the legal system. I am very critical of that. I see that mainly as a limitation for people with a small wallet to get their rights. I'm not alone in that criticism. Bernard de Leest of the Dutch order of lawyers talks about class justice. Hein Vogel of the Dutch Association of Social Lawyers is extremely critical. He says: market players are not waiting for our clients, because they are too difficult and have no money. Moreover, a lot of cases are being conducted against the government, the municipality or the UWV. What does the Minister actually think of this criticism? I haven't caught him reacting to that. I would like to ask him whether he is the Minister for Legal Protection or the Minister for Legal Control. There are also big problems in the chain. A group of judges will send a letter of fire. They're extremely concerned about the circumstances in which they have to work. They talked about structural overload, among other things. I think that's gonna make sense. At the state's attorney's office, there's a threat of a collective burnout. I quote the chairman of the Dutch Association for Justice: "The need is high among the officers. There's a lot of overtime, there's a lot of work in the evenings and weekends. People get overwhelmed and fall out. We're worried because we don't want a collective burn-out." Can the Minister also tell us a little bit more about what has recently been called "the diseased culture at the state's attorney's office"? Kitty Nooy, outgoing chief of the D.A.'s Office of Integrity, says that the public prosecutor's culture is hierarchically and often closed down. Anonymity and loneliness are lurking. I just read in an article that loneliness is twice as deadly as alcohol. She also says that people at the top hold each other hostage because they know each other too well. I am curious when the Minister was aware of these problems. What has he done so far? What's he gonna do about that? Then something about asylum and integration. We saw a new proposal from the VVD this week, a test balloon. We have already seen that Dijkhoff wanted to introduce postcode racism by punishing people in black neighborhoods more severely than people in white neighborhoods. I'm looking forward to that bill. Not a week goes by or the VVD comes up with such a new plan. You were about to find something. You would almost think that the VVD wants to cause confusion, in order to distract the attention from the real problems in society and passerby to pick some voices from the PVV. What was that test balloon? It's about asylum policy. The VVD also wants to demolish the last piece of humanity from that asylum policy: the discretion of the Secretary of State. That's the Dijkhoff line; hard on the children, heartbreaking and sad. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he can reassure us. I assume that the government will not be guided by Dijkhoff's test balloons and Azmani's in this case. I would once again like to call for a children's pardon for those 400 children who are rooted here in the Netherlands, and for speeding up asylum procedures and ensuring that we do not end up in such a situation again, in which children are in almost their entire lives in uncertainty and in trauma. The length of the asylum procedure is as follows. We saw that the IND does an average of ten months on how to handle a residence application, while the legal term is six months. What is the Secretary of State going to do to make sure that the IND also complies better with the law? At what time can we expect improvement there? Then something about the procedure after the initial decision of the IND. I often see what right-wing parties are calling for asylum seekers to go on endlessly. But isn't it also the IND who continues to press on on behalf of the State? Isn't the IND himself king-proceeding? Can the Minister give us an overview of the situation? I would like to know in which part of the court rulings the Dutch State is agreed on and in what part the asylum seeker is in. How often does the IND appeal against the ruling and how often does the asylum seeker do that? I see Mr Azmani getting along nicely, because he wants to know that too. You know, well maybe you can share it. You're always free to do an interruption. Finally, on asylum. I notice that we do not find it strange, at least some of us, that our own citizens are warned not to travel to very dangerous countries. Let's take the travel advice to Iraq; that's really deep red. Afghanistan is completely red. It is dangerous, so "not traveling" is the advice, but we simply send asylum seekers back to these areas, while some of them are at greater risk than any ordinary Dutch citizen, because the regime does not trust them or because it has an apple to deal with them. How does the Secretary of State legitimize this? Does the Dutch government actually know what happens to returned asylum seekers? Does the government know if they're under arrest or whether they might be tortured or imprisoned? Then I'll come to Secretary Grapperhaus. My first point is about poking around in the public sector. I have been diving into the history books and I saw that in spring 2015 the Expanding of the Law against Financial and Economic Crime came into force. This law provides far-reaching possibilities for detecting, prosecuting and punishing financial and economic crime. Higher maximum prison sentences are allowed. DENK would like to see higher penalties for people in the public sector who unjustly enrich themselves with community money. I admit that it is actually a bit of a Dijkhoffje: twice as severe punishment. In addition, in June 2014, a motion by Member Berndsen of D66 was adopted, which provides for the evaluation of this law. We are now three years ahead and that was also the deadline for that evaluation, but I have not seen it. I think I missed this one. That is why I ask the Minister: where is this evaluation? I have a number of specific questions: how many times has this amended law been applied, how many times have criminal penalties been applied, how many times have people working in (semi) public authorities actually been prosecuted and convicted of abuse or fraud with community money? Insofar as the Minister is not yet able to answer this question, can he take this into account in the evaluation? Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about the police organization. It has been recalled a few times: what is the Minister going to do about the high absenteeism among police personnel, the high workload and the imminent shortage of 5,000 officers? The second point concerns diversity within the police and ethnic profiling. Let me start with that ethnic profile. Is the Minister still in denial, or is he aware that this is a fundamental injustice that affects people at the heart of their being and hurts them? Does the Minister have any idea what it feels like to be pushed aside without cause, searched and fined, while other citizens are simply let through? I quote from the bad guys catch report from Twynstra Gudde. There seems to be such a thing among police officers as the picture of the average crook, a young man with low socio-economic status. Officers use all kinds of sub-categories, such as "wrong guests," "Antillians," "Moroccans," "zigers," "plot'n people," "cockroaches," "East blockers." That's how it's done in practice. What's the Minister gonna do to stop this? Then the diversity within the police organization. Diversity policy goes beyond the ticking of boxes and a certain influx of employees. It doesn't say anything about the preservation of diverse talents, about the flowing to higher grades, about culturally diverse side-instromers for leadership and about having a culturally diverse candidate at unitary management level. It has also been pointed out a number of times that, given the resistance within the organisation, the extent to which discrimination exists in the workplace, a fundamental process of cultural change must take place, with a new social standard at all levels of the organisation and clear consequences when that standard is exceeded. And one more thing. I understand the portfolio holder has left diversity. Is there going to be a new portfolio holder, and when will it be followed up? Final attention to the black book on discrimination within the police organisation. Exactly a year ago, we talked about that. Not individual cases, but a structural problem. Most of the black book providers, but not all of them, are police officers with a non-Western background. They're worried. They feel unsafe inside the force. They are discriminated against and intimidated by colleagues. And above all: they do not feel heard by their leaders. My question to the Minister is: what has he done with the signal that the black book is sending? What's happened over the past year? What concrete goals have been achieved? And perhaps it is: how many people have been punished for their misbehavior? I've spoken to some of those agents, and they've assured me that if you don't sanction the culture, you won't change anything at all. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u683	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. Finally, Mr Baudet, on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. Mr Azarkan misses Mr Hiddema. "Who doesn't?', says Mr Baudet. How many minutes do you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u684	40. I'm at 30, but I requested 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u685	That's fine, for the first and second term. But go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u686	Mr. Chairman. On 10 December, VVD Secretary of State Mark Harbers still intends to sign the controversial immigration pact in Marrakesh on behalf of the Netherlands. The Democracy Forum has been opposed to this Pact from the outset. A month ago, we asked 100 questions to Secretary of State Harbers, in which we expressed our objections. Last week we received his answer: Harbers had not received all the information necessary to answer the questions. How is it possible that the Secretary of State wishes to sign a pact, while essential information to make a careful decision on this is apparently not yet available? Apparently, Harbers himself was also questioning the consequences of the Pact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u687	The Secretary of State means you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u688	Yes, exactly, Secretary of State Harbers, sitting there. In this way, after we asked our questions, he informed the Telegraaf that he had put his lawyers to work to map the consequences. The fact that this cabinet has already indicated that it wants to sign the pact, while apparently it is not even clear what its consequences are, demonstrates our government's carelessness about migration. Oh, well, one of those subjects. In order to stress the urgency of the issue, we have requested several debates in recent weeks, repeatedly blocked by VVD and CDA. The debate should take place today, it was said, during the debate on the budget of Justice and Security, with less time and less room to go into the various aspects of this treaty. It reaffirmed the lax and unbelievable attitude of VVD and CDA in this discussion. When the UN General Assembly decided in September 2016 that there should be a pact to this end, they remained silent. When the final text was adopted in New York last summer, on 13 July to be exact, they remained silent. When I tried to put the subject on the political agenda and insisted on a debate, the subject was not considered important enough for a specific plenary debate on this issue. It was only when the social resistance to the Pact slowly but surely increased and the two government parties probably feared that it might cost them votes that it became too hot. Suddenly tough words by Azmani and Van Toorenburg sound that it must not be binding and suddenly a played critical attitude is adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u689	I have already raised the following when Mr Baudet asked me a question. We have been discussing migration in general for a number of years, covering various aspects, including international agreements. I would like to ask Mr Baudet: when is he going to take part in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u690	There are two things. Firstly, this is a false trick to pretend that there are all kinds of conversations about this migration pact that have not been going on at all and have not been going on at all. Secondly, I was at the previous meeting. So there is no need to worry, Mrs Van Toorenburg: we are here. Even if we have a very small fraction, we stand our ground. This is apparent from the fact that FvD is now higher in the polls than the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u691	This is not the beginning of an answer. I was wondering when Mr Baudet would also discuss migration in general. That is why I explained to him last time that there was a debate in a room. There he came in halfway and he could add a number of points. I hope that he will stay with us in future when we discuss this sort of thing. The international implications of all agreements are not only these but also those relating to refugees, which he sometimes confuses, we all discuss in general, where unfortunately we sometimes only have four minutes of speaking time. But Mr Baudet now has 40, so he can do it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u692	It is really bizarre how things are done here as if the Marrakesh Immigration Pact had been discussed at all kinds of committee meetings, which is not the case. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked when I was there; I was at the last meeting, for example. Then we sat there together. That took until 4:00, if I do. Then we were able to talk a little bit about the pact from 4.05 p.m. to 4.07 p.m. two minutes, namely: that pact is coming, we are going to sign it and we do not want a plenary debate. So this is really a way of ostrich politics as I have rarely seen. I see my time is running, but I was still answering the question, so that's wrong. That time has to stop now, and I have to get it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u693	We'll keep an eye on it, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u694	I was gonna say, uh... I was gonna say, uh... Mr Baudet was present in half. He could have asked a lot of questions about it in the first term. Then he probably could have talked about it a lot longer. But if he's not there, his questions won't be answered. Mr Hiddema is not here today either, and I'm sure he has a lot of questions. Then his questions will not be answered either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u695	I think this is really hilarious. It is not, of course, that you can simply ask questions about all the issues if they are not on the agenda at all. Of course, there are all kinds of issues related to the migration debate. It was about EU migration policy, and so there were all kinds of points of discussion about this. I've been a part of that, too. So I do not understand the point that is being made here. You are trying to divert attention, Mrs Van Toorenburg, with a faint remark about not being present or whatever. The fact is, moreover, that we can table motions in plenary and vote on them in plenary. This is the heart of democracy. This Chamber accepts all possible ad hoc plenary debates, but does not want to talk about this point, which is so incredibly important for the future of the Netherlands and our ability to reduce migratory pressure. That is and will remain a disgrace on the political legacy of the CDA, and you must take note of that, and you must not come up with all sorts of vague suspicions about whether or not you have been present at some irrelevant committee debate. I really think it's a bizarre kind of political muddle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u696	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u697	Mr. Chairman. I'll come back to my starting point. It is so transparent how VVD and CDA act on this issue, how they try to appease the voter with some tough words when one starts to feel some unrest. But in the meantime, they just want to push through this pact. And we're not even getting answers to our questions yet. Forum for Democracy demands answers on behalf of the people in the Netherlands we represent to the following questions. What exactly is the legal status of the Marrakech Immigration Pact according to the Secretary of State? To what extent is the Netherlands bound by the immigration pact? Why does the government want to sign the Marrakesh Immigration Pact, especially given that the United States, Austria, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Estonia, Hungary and Israel have already withdrawn? Is the Secretary of State aware of the reasons why countries, as mentioned in the previous question, have reservations about the Marrakesh Immigration Pact? If not, can he then contact his foreign counterparts and reconnect his vision of their motivation to the Chamber. Does the Secretary of State's intention to sign the Marrakesh Immigration Pact on behalf of the Netherlands mean that he agrees with the entire text of the Pact? If not, which parts are not involved and why does he intend to sign the whole pact? What, according to the Secretary of State, is the advantage for the Netherlands to commit to an international immigration pact? Is the Marrakech Immigration Pact enforceable? If so, how and with what notice? Which organisations involved and which negotiators were involved or involved on behalf of the Netherlands in drafting the text of the Marrakesh Immigration Pact? Has the Marrakech Immigration Pact been discussed during the formation and has it been otherwise agreed within the coalition and the cabinet? Is the Secretary of State in favour of objective 33c of the Marrakesh Pact to promote a more positive image of immigration in the media, including online media. If so, why? Is the Secretary of State in favour of making journalists more sensitive and trained on migration-related issues and terminology as prescribed by the Pact? If so, why and how does he intend to implement this concretely? According to the Secretary of State, what immigration-related terminology should be removed from the Dutch vocabulary, as Article 33c states as an objective? And what terminology would he like to add? Does the government intend to deprive public service broadcasters who have reservations about the consequences of mass immigration of their subsidies, in line with objective 33c of the Marrakesh Immigration Pact? Does the Secretary of State share the concern that further extension of family reunification policy, as laid down in Articles 21i and 32c, will lead to even more uncontrolled migration? If not, why not? How does the Secretary of State see the central objective of facilitating more secure, orderly, regular migration, Article 16, Objective 5? How does the cabinet intend to implement this? According to the Secretary of State, what is the definition of regular immigration? And according to the Secretary of State, what is the definition of irregular immigration? Are the consequences of regular immigration different from the consequences of irregular immigration for the Netherlands? If so, how is this noticeable? Are there any figures on this? If so, can the Secretary of State share this with the Chamber? If there is no difference between the effects of irregular and regular migration, what is the reason to prevent irregular migration but rather to promote regular migration? What are the benefits of this for the Netherlands? Does the Secretary of State share the view that the interests of the Netherlands should always be placed above the interests of immigrants? If not, why not? Does the Secretary of State agree with the observation that the Marrakesh Immigration Pact puts immigrants' rights above the interests of the citizens of host countries? If not, why not? How does the Secretary of State view the alleged non-binding nature of the Marrakech Immigration Pact in the light of the Urgenda ruling of the Court of Justice of The Hague on 9 October? Does the Secretary of State share the view that activist judges, whether or not through a one-two with the European Court, are trying to make non-binding treaties binding, and can also make them binding? Why does the Secretary of State intend to sign the Marrakesh Immigration Pact, such a non-binding pact, as judges who have freedom and that possibility? Does the Secretary of State recognise the danger of signing non-binding treaties in the light of these developments and the activism of our judiciary? What, according to the Secretary of State, is the point of making non-binding and non-enforceable agreements in a general sense? Does the Secretary of State share the view that migration is an integral part of the entire human history, as stated in the Marrakesh Immigration Pact, Article 8? Does the Secretary of State consider that migration from European neighbouring countries from the pre-war past is equivalent to post-war migration from third world countries? If so, why? Or, if not, does the Secretary of State share FvD's view that the above-mentioned theorem in the Marrakech Immigration Pact, which would be a major migration movement throughout human history, is misleading? Does the Secretary of State share the view, as stated in the Marrakech Immigration Pact, that migration is a source of prosperity, innovation and sustainable development? If so, how can the Secretary of State give concrete examples of this? And does that also apply to the effects of migration in the Netherlands? If so, in what way? Does the Secretary of State share the view, as stated in the Marrakech Pact Article 8, that migration has a mainly positive impact on immigration countries, on net recipient countries, such as the Netherlands? Can he quantify these benefits for the Netherlands? And how does he see all the negative effects of mass immigration on the Netherlands, such as reduced social cohesion, increased crime, the impact on healthcare costs, education, the available housing stock and the costs of social security? Does the Secretary of State share the view that the negative effects of immigration remain completely unexplained in the Marrakesh Immigration Pact? If not, in what article of the treaty are these negative effects accurately appointed in his opinion? Does the Secretary of State share the view, as stated in Article 12 of the Marrakech Immigration Pact, that immigration is an enrichment for society? If so, why? Where does he get that? Does the Secretary of State share the view, as stated in the Marrakesh Immigration Pact, that all countries in the world are so-called countries of origin, transit and destination? Does the State Secretary share the view that in practice the Netherlands is mainly a destination country? Does the Secretary of State share the view that it is very important to have accurate, specific information on the background of immigrants and their behaviour in the Netherlands, in order to make appropriate policies? How does the Secretary of State view the importance of accurate information collection, called for in the Marrakech Immigration Pact, in relation to the FvD motion of 2 November 2017, in which we called for the tracking of all relevant information about immigrants, and where his own party, the VVD, voted against? What does the Secretary of State think of the plan to place our national data collection on the effects of immigration under the supervision of the United Nations Statistical Commission, as required by Article 17a of the Marrakesh Immigration Pact? What's this for? Isn't the Netherlands perfectly capable of collecting figures about immigrants coming to our country? In fact, can't we do that much better ourselves? Does the Secretary of State consider that the Netherlands has a duty to improve political, economic and social conditions, as well as environmental conditions in countries of origin, so that people remain in their own countries, as provided for in Article 18? If so, why? Where does this obligation come from? How is the cabinet going to put this into practice? What are the costs involved? What is the amount of money that we are prepared to spend on this? How does the Dutch government intend to strengthen cooperation between humanitarian actors and development actors, such as promoting joint analysis, multi-donor approaches and multi-annual financial support, as provided for in Article 18f? What are the costs involved? Does the Secretary of State share the view expressed in paragraph 18 of the Marrakech Immigration Pact that people leave their country of origin because of so-called climate change? Does the Secretary of State really believe that people are leaving their country of origin on a massive scale because of climate change? If so, can he give this concrete expression and figures to the Chamber? Does the Secretary of State share the view that immigrants are particularly attracted to our social security environment? If not, why does he think that migrants from Africa are travelling through at least dozens of countries on foot and risking their own lives on shady boats into the Mediterranean until they arrive in a country where social services are so immensely beneficial to immigrants? Does the Secretary of State share the view that the provision of information on the receipt of benefits to newly arrived migrants, as provided for in Article 19d, has an astounding effect on immigration flows to the Netherlands? If so, does the Secretary of State intend to implement this objective, as required by the Treaty? Why? To what end? What is the State Secretary's view on the provision of non-discrimination courses to public staff, as provided for in Article 29g of the Convention? Does the cabinet intend to give concrete substance to this? If so, what should we imagine in such courses? What's the content gonna be? What does the Secretary of State intend to do with this? Which government officials will all have to take these courses? And what will this cost a year? Can the Secretary of State explain why in a country like the Netherlands, where immigrants seem to be subject to serious forms of discrimination, special non-discrimination courses must be given to government staff, so many immigrants net each year 80,000 per year apply for a residence permit, if it would all be so bad here? Does the Secretary of State intend to set up fast track programmes to speed up the processing of applications for residence permits for immigrants to fill labour shortages, as required by Article 21d? Does the Secretary of State intend to shorten the duration of visa applications in order to promote migration, as provided for in Article 21f? Is the Secretary of State familiar with the tactics of immigrants to pretend to be minors to be more likely to have a residence permit? In the light of the previous question, how does the Secretary of State consider it that the Marrakesh Immigration Pact stipulates that any immigrant who claims to be a minor should be treated in this way, unless a multidisciplinary, independent, child-friendly age provision has been made, in accordance with Article 28d? Does the Secretary of State share the concern that the tactics of immigrants to pretend to be minors will be used more often than ever? If not, why not? Does the Secretary of State agree with the objective of the Marrakech Immigration Pact that minors should not be deported if it has been established that this is not in their interest, as stated in Article 37g? How does he intend to establish this interest? What is the weight of Dutch interest? Is there still a balance of interest or is the supposed interest of the immigrant always here for our own sake? Can the Secretary of State explain in what cases expulsion of immigrants is arbitrary, as mentioned in Article 23h? Does the Secretary of State share the view that the decision to expel will hardly ever be taken in practice as a result of the wish of the immigrant, but almost always as a result of a wish of the host country? Does the Secretary of State therefore share the view that host countries should always be involved in the criteria on the basis of which they allow and refuse immigrants?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u698	Perhaps the question is this: do you share the view that the choice of admission or expulsion of immigrants should always serve the interests of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u699	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u700	It is nice that the 100 questions that have already been put in writing and are actually already part of the debate we are having with each other are all being read out. I also welcome the fact that very critical questions are being asked. I'm very happy about that, too. I have also asked a number of critical questions myself. But do I understand from this that Mr. Baudet hasn't finally determined his position either?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u701	On the contrary, because many of these questions are rhetorical questions. This means that through these questions we stress how incredibly bad this treaty is for the Netherlands, by constantly showing that you are being forced, or at least forced, on the basis of this treaty as a country to carry out pro- immigration policy and to place the interests of immigrants above the interests of your own country, and that this is therefore very bad for the Netherlands in all possible ways. If it is true that the net is not strictly legally binding, then the point remains: why would you sign this as the Netherlands? What's in it for us?!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u702	I'll be up right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u703	Me too. That actually helps very well. We have to find out together that the questions are being asked, but they do not make any sense at all. It is up to the cabinet to answer them all, and I leave that to the cabinet too, but it is apparently all rhetorical questions. The conclusion has already been drawn by Mr Baudet. So I wonder what we're doing with each other and why we're debating...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u704	I would very much like to hear from the Secretary of State what he has to say on this point, as he puts forward the answer to these questions. He's had more than a month. Now we want the Government's response on Thursday. He's got one more day to do his homework. We're looking forward to it. I would like to continue with the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u705	I conclude that Mr Baudet does not give a damn what the answers to the questions are. Then I think we're wasting time together if he doesn't give a shit. I don't understand why he says in big words "o, I won't get a chance to have the debate" if he's not interested in the answers from the Secretary of State, because he already knows the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u706	I do not think Mr Azmani understands exactly what I mean by 'rhetorical questions'. The point is that with these questions I show why this treaty is so bad for the Netherlands. I am very interested in the reaction of the Secretary of State to the question, for example, whether he thinks it is a problem that this treaty puts immigrants' interests above the interests of the Netherlands, but not so much in terms of content. I want to know how he gets out of this. How can it be that he intends to sign this treaty, while in question after question I put, it becomes clear that this does not serve the Dutch interest and that this cannot be explained to the Dutch people, who are overwhelmingly sceptical about this treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u707	I must also point out that I was confused for a moment, because I was already in question 56 and I had the impression that he really wanted an answer. But it becomes a sort of game when Mr Baudet says: it is all rhetorical and I know the answer. Then what are we doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u708	You too do not understand what I mean by "a rhetorical question." The point is: the question serves to raise my objection. I would very much like to have a reaction to that. I'd really like to hear from Harbers what he thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u709	From the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u710	Yes, from Secretary of State Harbers. But it is not so much what Malik Azmani asked me to do that my own judgment has not yet been established. No, with these questions I will show why I, the Forum for Democracy and many people in the Netherlands are so skeptical of this treaty. So they are indeed questions, but actually they are critical points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u711	I note that Mr Baudet will be turning again. Just now, Mr Azmani asked him: have you decided your opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u712	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u713	He's already made up his mind. Yet he asks rhetorical questions. We don't know what rhetorical questions are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u714	No, I'll explain in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u715	The bottom line is that Mr Baudet is doing a little bit of seagull politics. He comes in here a lot. He's starting to flutter. He's screaming. He's shitting the hell out of this place. And then we can clean it up when he's gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u716	So how do you think he's gonna clean that up in his work, Mr. Azarkan? What's there to clean up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u717	That was meant to be metaphorical.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u718	That was, like, rhetorical.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u719	Metaphorically.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u720	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u721	You were in question 56 or 57.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u722	I am so curious whether the Secretary of State shares my view that collective expulsion of a particular group can sometimes be functional. If not, why not? How does the Secretary of State see Objective 24a of the Marrakesh Immigration Pact, which prohibits this? How does the Secretary of State see the role and responsibility of smuggled immigrants in the chain of human trafficking? Do they not pay thousands of euros per person to be smuggled and do they not agree voluntarily? Does the Secretary of State share the view that not only smugglers, but also those who use smugglers, can and should be held responsible for entering our country via a smuggler? Does the Secretary of State share the view that punishing voluntary participation in human trafficking can have a deterrent effect on participation in human trafficking and thus reduce the influx of immigrants from the Third World? In the light of the previous questions, how does the Secretary of State see the commitment in the Marrakech Immigration Pact not to hold immigrants using smugglers' services responsible or punishable? See Article 25. How does the Secretary of State envisage the automatic admission of "victims of trafficking in human beings" under Article 26h? Does the Secretary of State share the concern that this is going to be a common excuse to demand permanent and immediate admission? Can the Secretary of State explain how the guarantee of human rights, as referred to in Objective 27 of the Marrakech Immigration Pact, is linked to border surveillance? Isn't that a conflict? Is the purpose of border surveillance not to protect the security and integrity of the population within a border? Wouldn't the total closure of our borders be contrary to human rights? Shouldn't we make a choice for borders and against "human rights"? Would the partial closure of our borders be contrary to the "human rights" of immigrants? What point can we close them to? Does the Secretary of State share the view that arbitrary "human rights" of immigrants should never outweigh the interests of the Dutch population? Does the Secretary of State share the concern that the Marrakesh Immigration Pact will lead to any form of exclusion of immigrants under Article 27b being understood as a form of discrimination? Does the Secretary of State share the view that it is important to decide as the Netherlands who we allow here and who we do not? Does the Secretary of State share the view that sticking to the objectives of the Marrakech Immigration Pact is incompatible with the objective that we decide who we allow here and who we do not? What is the reading of the Secretary of State for Objective 27f? Is criminalising illegality, in his view, a violation of international law? Does the Secretary of State share the view that the expulsion policy in the Netherlands is still not working at the moment? What are the most recent estimates available to the Secretary of State regarding the number of illegal immigrants in the Netherlands? Does the Secretary of State and FvD consider that the failing expulsion policy is largely due to the fact that rejected immigrants often do not leave voluntarily and disappear into illegality? Does the Secretary of State share the view that combating illegality is a legitimate objective? Does the Secretary of State share the view that preventive detention in the event of expulsion can provide a solution to the problem of illegality? Does the Secretary of State share the view that the threat of detention could have a deterrent effect on immigrants and reduce the mass influx of immigrants to the Netherlands? How does he intend to fulfil the objective of the Marrakech Immigration Pact under Article 13d, which states that detention should not be used as a deterrent and should serve only a legitimate purpose? Can the Secretary of State explain why it is in the interest of the Netherlands to facilitate the free access of all migrants to asylum lawyers, as provided for in Article 29d? According to the Secretary of State, which basic Dutch services are protected by human rights, as referred to in Article 31 of the Marrakesh Immigration Pact? Does the Secretary of State share the view, as stated in the Marrakesh Immigration Pact under Article 31b, that irregular immigrants should also have access to basic services? If so, why? What is the Secretary of State going to do about municipalities frustrating national expulsion policies with bed-bath bread arrangements? Does the Secretary of State intend to establish service points at local level to facilitate access to these basic services for immigrants, as required by Article 31c? Does the Secretary of State intend to set up a National Human Rights Institute to record immigrants' complaints about access to basic services (Article 31d)? Is the Secretary of State familiar with the WRR report The new diversity. Increasing diversity by origin in the Netherlands, whose main conclusion was: the more diverse a neighborhood becomes, the more the coexistence becomes under pressure? In the light of the WRR report, what does the Secretary of State see as the objective of the Marrakesh Immigration Pact to increase the acceptance of diversity (Article 32a and Article 32i)? Is the State Secretary in favour of actively promoting a positive social view of diversity by the government, including organising integration activities for children to promote diversity and inclusiveness? Why is that, or why not? How is the government going to implement the Marrakech Immigration Pact objective under Article 32i, in which the government is instructed to do so? Is the Secretary of State in favour of actively promoting multicultural activities such as sport, music, art, culinary festivals, volunteering and other social events, as required by Article 32h? Why is that? Why is that? How is he going to implement this objective of the Marrakesh Immigration Pact? Is the Secretary of State in favour of promoting awareness campaigns among the Dutch population in order to create a positive image of immigration (Article 33f)? Is the Secretary of State in favour of involving immigrants in the detection of intolerance in the context of election campaigns, as required by Article 33g of the Marrakesh Immigration Pact? How's he gonna implement this? Does the Secretary of State consider that a critical position on immigration is a form of intolerance, as suggested in the Marrakesh Immigration Pact? Does the Secretary of State intend to make special support policies for immigrants in the Netherlands and to facilitate and promote entrepreneurship of immigrants, including through the provision of legal and administrative support to immigrants (Article 35e)? If so, why and what does he intend to do in concrete terms? How much money does he want to make available for that? Does the Secretary of State agree with us that funds for such support policies could perhaps be better spent on generic tax cuts for all Dutch, including immigrants? If not, why not? Is the Secretary of State in favour of facilitating the political participation of immigrants from the Netherlands in the politics of their home country, for example by offering special voting rooms for immigrants (Article 35g)? If so, why? How does this benefit Dutch society? Can the Secretary of State give an estimate of how much money was returned in 2017 by immigrants in the Netherlands to people in their home country? If this isn't kept up, why not? Isn't that incredibly relevant to know? Are these shipments of money currently being taxed by immigrants? If so, in what way? Is it also mapped out what percentage of this money comes from benefits and what percentage of this money sent to home countries has actually been earned by the immigrants who send it there? Does the Secretary of State consider that the disappearance of money from the Dutch economy by sending immigrants to their country of origin is in the Dutch interest? Or is that not in Dutch interest? Does the Secretary of State consider that immigrants coming to the Netherlands should also receive benefits which they had in their home country in the Netherlands, as provided for in Article 38? If so, why? Does the Secretary of State consider the implementation of the Marrakech Immigration Pact to be an international collective obligation, which may need to be guaranteed with additional financial and technical support to other countries, as provided for in Article 39a of the Pact? Is the government prepared to spend additional development funds to sustain the achievement of the objectives of the Marrakech Immigration Pact? If the Secretary of State disagrees with one of the statements or plans of the Marrakech Immigration Pact, why does he intend to sign the Pact?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u723	Question 100.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u724	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u725	Question 100.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u726	You want to ask another question, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u727	That's what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u728	I don't think you have my speech, but er...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u729	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u730	This was the end of what I had to say. If the Secretary of State shares one or more of these objections, which I have explained and tried to support, if he shares them with the Marrakesh Immigration Pact, why would he intend to sign them? As far as I am concerned, he does not get away with a piece of legislation with either an insert sheet, with a binding insert in a non-binding treaty. None of these things convince me. There is a whole range of articles in that pact that prescribe things that are not in our interests, that increase the problems with immigration, that reduce our grip on migration, that make it harder to deport people, that make it harder to stop people, that will have a sucking effect, and so on, and so on. Why would we sign this? It is not in Dutch interest. I am very happy to wait for the Minister to answer my questions. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u731	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-20-tweedekamer-29.u732	On Thursday, we will continue with the Government's response. For the moment, I'm closing the meeting. I thank everyone in the room and the staff.
