ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u1	I shall reopen the sitting and the debate on the General Political Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u2	When the sitting was suspended at 5:00 p.m. this afternoon, we were in the discussion of the group chairman of the CDA, Mr Brinkman. He is now going to pursue his argument. Mr Brinkman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u3	Thank you. I would have stuck to the fact that, in my opinion, majority coalitions do not necessarily need to be ruled, provided that the minorities do not take an intransigent attitude either within or outside any coalition. In the meantime, budgetary developments continue to give cause for concern to our budgetary accountants. The agreements with the healthcare sector to moderate growth are good. It is also understandable that there are resistances to more own risk. But let's not blind ourselves. Insurance premiums continue to rise, and despite all the possibilities for demedification, desugaring, degreasing, robotisation and social and technological innovations, many view package reduction and differential as against a mountain, for example. Research after research continues to follow, but what do we leave behind and what does the cabinet leave behind for new generations? Hopefully, the cabinet will once again have the courage to engage in this broad and necessary social debate. After all, there is more than one end of life in politics. Madam President. It is often about the contribution that the administration can make to a decent and stable society in the First Chamber, but we know very well that we are only dealing with this to some extent. We are a small country, with open borders, and we depend on the woe and woe of our wider environment. We live in an unstable world. We can't keep that world out of the door. Even the mighty America comes no further than a powerless attempt to build a large wall around it. The idea that we could close our borders here is therefore at best a myth and at worst pure deceit. That is why we are obliged to work together across borders, to make agreements and to give and take them. Our most important arena for this work is the European Union. That arena has been spoken of with little love for years. We can all do that, but we have to realize that this is our most important arena. Only on a European scale do we have sufficient weight to defend and promote our interests and values in the world. Or is there still the idea that we can warn Google or China on our own for the last time? Madam President. I argue that our world view can no longer be the same as when I started at the Binnenhof. We live and in our home, our neighborhood, our city or our village and in the world, even if we thought to exist only on the www. And yet we must realise that citizens often do not see much of this useful function of the European Union. It doesn't protect them enough. In this way they can come to the conclusion that our national government cannot protect them and that the European Union does not want to protect them. Frankly, I do not always find the role of this cabinet clear on this point either. For example, the European Commission launched a plan to strengthen external border surveillance. There had to be 10,000 European customs officers to protect the border with Africa in particular. The Prime Minister, if I have seen it correctly, made it clear that this much effort was not meant to be. Border surveillance should not become a European task, because that would affect our sovereignty. Besides, he thought the bill was too high. Question is, what do we want? That the patchwork of the leaked border guard remains? That those holes in cheese stay and that the population explosion in Africa continues to search its way north? That we ourselves do not continue to succeed in actually shortening admission procedures with a clear yes or no on record, without endless judicial proceedings based on an increasingly obsoleet Refugee Convention? No, just for a good understanding, this is not about promoting unkindness or keeping a pure conscience. However, it is a question of maintaining the virtual and literal basis of support under a reasonable understanding of persistent migratory flows. What does the cabinet really want in this respect? Men and women who are going to serve at Frontex want to know what they are going to do, other than arrest people, send them back and arrest them again? Does Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands agree with the requirements of our inland countries and the facilities offered to us? And what will more cooperation with African countries in order to rebuild there with their own people mean? Madam President. Sometimes it seems that the cabinet unilaterally withdraws from the world order that has been established with the US since the Second World War and removes its institutions and agreements as an observation that something happens everywhere. No, this is a fundamental reversal of proportions. What does this cabinet want to do in the new, multipolar world? From a shooter's pit staring across the ocean or with an open vision, first, to bring Europe back together peacefully and productively? Madam President. In such a global perspective of uncertainty, pension here is perhaps a bagatelle compared to unrest and worse in the world. However, electoral risk management would require a higher acceleration of cabinet policy in this area. Do not let the cabinet stumble over banana peels, either at the old age's dining table or at the Brussels meeting tables. It doesn't have to be called vision, but what does the MP really think about Europe and the US in the new world order-in-the-making? That can't just be a breakdown, can it? Tradition is not for nothing, no matter how much news comes under the sun. Young people still have the future, but our generation, happy and quite tolerant, should not leave a mess. Madam President. I closed my still constructively meant but perhaps here and there some fashionably eclectic and disruptive remarks on behalf of our group with words that my foreseeable successor might have already spoken. Let me finish with the next one. New states will be elected in a few months' time. Then 400 years ago, their distant predecessors had a State translation of the Bible delivered to the people. Are those vistas back in time? No, because even then the age-old plea was held for the cultivation and preservation of the earth. That mission still stands for the future. So there is still plenty to do, as sustainability, among other things, brings with it ever more concrete tasks. Now increasing social stress and reducing 2 million people from the antidepressants memories of too much work failure in the nineties. No, we should not flee into a supposed paradise of a cloud full of vague, symbolic plans and false because empty promises. Implement well-funded and administratively well-thought-out policies, that's what it's about, and to take people with them in more of their own responsibility instead of speaking over their heads and hearts from the point of view of collectivity or merely letting them speak. What has fortunately turned out to be a good thing in recent decades should not go up in smoke of continuing to tolerate too easily, nor perish in bureaucratic catastrophes. In conclusion, therefore, may I ask this good Prime Minister to finish his work here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Brinkman. I give the floor to Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate the Cabinet on its first birthday. There is optimism that the cabinet will have its second birthday. There is therefore much to celebrate. Purchasing power is increasing, unemployment is falling and the economy is growing by 2.6%. But that doesn't say much about the reality of many people in the Netherlands. Why can't they join us at the birthday party? Because in a civilised country everyone should benefit, but that is not the case now. For example, our country has 320,000 working poor; that is 4.6% of all workers. Hundreds of thousands of children live in poverty; that is more than one in ten. There is loneliness among one in five single parents, and also more and more among young people. And behind those numbers are heartbreaking stories. Michiel can't afford his children's music lessons anymore. "The worst thing about poverty is that my mother has to cry when we have a financial setback," says a younger person. Brigitte has to do more and more in less time, under pressure from outsourcing the cleaning work, for little money. Edith can't afford her rental house because of successive rent increases, but she can't find another place. Mr. Chairman. Fine, such an increase in gross domestic product, but growth...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u6	Finish your sentence, Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u7	... but growth does not distinguish between good and bad economic activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u8	Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u9	Ms Sent indicated that it was a party for the cabinet, but that only too few people participated in it. She mentions a number of groups that should also participate. What do you think of the next generations? You are sketching people's lives now, but how can we ensure that this party will also be a celebration for generations in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u10	I think that is a very good point. When we look at how a country does it, we have to use the concept of "wide prosperity." The concept of "wide prosperity" is about the people here, but also about the people in the future. They should be taken, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u11	Okay, good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u12	Growth does not distinguish between good and bad economic activities. If we are going to gain extra gas in Groningen, this will in economic reality create positive figures and create additional jobs because of all the houses that need extra strengthening. But that economic growth is putting the safety of Groningers at risk. And so it has happened that the gas extraction in Groningen has derailed. The fact that the economy is doing well does not mean that the Netherlands is doing well. As Robert Kennedy once said nicely about economic figures: "It measures everything in short, except that which makes life worthwhile." The PvdA finds this focus on economic growth far too limited, because that one figure says very little about what people experience every day. The Council of State's opinion on the Millions Note fits in perfectly with this. Because the essence of the opinion is, the Council writes, to make the concept of "wide prosperity" more central. In the direction of Mrs Strik, I would like to say once again that this concept of 'wide prosperity' also includes the prosperity of future generations. It is precisely for these reasons that I have sometimes been confused with Mr and Mrs Ester together with Mr Ester, but that is a misunderstanding that the planning agencies called for their reflections to be published at the same time as the Macro Economic Recognition on Princess Day, so that the broader perspective can play a role in the General Political and Financial Reviews. I would like to thank the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, the SCP, as well as the Planning Office for the Environment, the PBL, for having responded to this call. The Central Planning Office does valuable math work, no misunderstanding about that. But the cabinet brings its growth forecast as a certainty, while it is a false certainty. The former chief mathematician, Coen Teulings, simply says honestly: "We are bad at predicting." If we do know one thing for sure, it is that the purchasing power plates of the Central Planning Bureau never come out. One irrational decision by an international leader and the purchasing power plates can go into the trash. The sad thing is that just when predictions are most needed, as in times of crisis, the CPB is wrong. Then the hard numbers suddenly turn out to be butter soft. And just now, we could be facing another crisis. Debts have increased enormously worldwide. Rapid globalisation makes us vulnerable. And big players, like Amazon and Google, are hardly supervised. Financial institutions show little learning from the crisis. Does the Prime Minister agree with my group that there are lessons to be learned from the recent crisis? The Dutch banking sector is still more than three times the total economy. This makes the financial sector an enormous head of water on our economy. Why not make higher demands on risk capital in banks so that they can cope with losses themselves and pay greater attention to risks for bank financiers? I would very much like to hear from the Prime Minister what we can expect from the cabinet in this area. Mr. Chairman. Even if the numbers are correct, they give a distorted picture. Of course economic growth, purchasing power and employment are important for our well-being, but behind the averages there is a large spread. Then the birthday cake doesn't appear to be distributed fairly. Multinationals account for only 21% of jobs. However, as they pay less and less taxes, employees' wages fall short of profits. Of each euro earned, only €0.73 goes to the employee. With the remaining €0.27 the shareholder is fêted. Where does it go wrong? The clean electoral promises are always more expensive, at least for the public. Because companies have a good lobby. My party colleague, Wimar Bolhuis, has clearly revealed this in his dissertation From word to agreement. Labour and income costs have been on average 3.3 billion higher since 1986 than promised in campaigns. At the same time, however, the burden on industry is limited. The deviations between election programmes and government agreement are even detrimental to economic growth. Now that the cabinet has finally moved on to the dividend tax, it insists that the tax on profits for companies should be reduced in order to improve the business environment. Of course, the multinationals themselves will have indicated that flexible tax rules are important to them. But it is the judges, teachers, police officers, soldiers and healthcare workers who make an essential contribution to the good climate of establishment which the cabinet attaches so much importance to. For that, it is at least as important that there are good schools in a country, that there is good health care and that it is safe on the streets. An investment in education, care and police also has a great added value for the locational environment. But who is actually lobbying for the citizen, Bolhuis is rhetorically wondering. That's why I advise the Cabinet to invite judges, teachers, policemen, soldiers and care workers. I understand from the words of Mrs Jorritsma that she also sees something about such sounds being heard, in addition to the sounds of business that are being invited to the Catshuis. It is increasingly difficult for judges and prosecutors to do their work at the level to which our society is entitled. The announced reorganisation of the social lawyer threatens to deny vulnerable people access to justice. Teachers succumb to the pressure of work and can give too little attention to students. Academic staff are also tired of the workload and the undersized public investment in education. According to staff and unions, there needs to be a lot more money in the Defense Department. Care calls for staff, but high workload drives nurses away and operations are delayed due to lack of staff. And also the police squeaks and cracks it because of a staff shortage. But it is precisely in this public sector that we see the consequences of too high a workload and too low a salary. There are staff shortages for teachers, police officers and care staff. This threatens the quality of the important work they have to do. That is why we ask the Prime Minister to examine the contribution of judges, teachers, soldiers, policemen and caregivers to the climate of establishment. Is he willing to do that? And does he agree with me that a good locational environment should attract mainly companies that create many, good jobs? Mr. Chairman. More market forces are not a solution. This year's Nobel Prize for Economics was awarded to scientists who draw attention to the failure of that market. Without government intervention, markets, according to William Nordhaus, will produce too much pollution and, according to Paul Romer, will produce too few ideas. And there are some examples that I know of. The labour market is failing. Nowhere in Europe is the number of flexible contracts growing as fast as in the Netherlands. In 2005 only one in six people had a flexible contract, in 2018 that number was one in four. Almost half of young people under 35 have a flexible contract. The PvdA is the party of work, work, work, in the footsteps of Wim Kok, whom we remember with great gratitude and deep respect. People need to be sure of good work with a decent salary. But the labour market is failing. And that while Cook, with the Wassenaar Agreement, gave a wonderful example of the strength of the Rhineland model. Can we expect the cabinet to work for such a broad "social" agreement? The housing market is also failing. Social housing disappears, cities become less accessible to start-ups and tenants, investors are a scourge in cities, with the result that the flow of people on low income cannot find an affordable home. Living is a fundamental right. What does the Cabinet do to guarantee that fundamental right? And who pays for sustainable housing? Sustainability lives, the Planbureau writes for the Environment. "We need to design the sustainable renewal in such a way that everyone participates, enthusiastically and creatively," says the director. But what if people get caught up in the price of energy? Surely it can't be that the burden is too high for people who happen to live in an old house? What attention will be paid to the fair sharing of the burden of making the cabinet more sustainable? Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister will undoubtedly argue against market failure. And my group agrees with him, but not because there is too much government, but too little. Take the education. It is the basis for a good future, for every individual. But students aren't sure of a fair chance. The primary school wrongly estimates a child of poor parents less high, according to research by the Central Bureau of Statistics. In addition, almost a third of the students in secondary school last year received paid tutoring, homework guidance or exam training. But the chances of good education shouldn't depend on the thickness of your wallet, right? Or take the pensions. There is a double ageing population, because there is an increasing number of pensioners and the average life expectancy is rising. There is also a double hazing, because the birth rate is falling and young people barely enter the system because they almost all have temporary contracts or flex contracts or work as zzp'ers. This puts the system under enormous pressure and makes it difficult to reach a pension agreement. If we want to maintain our caring society in this kind of development, then by far the best solution is for everyone to participate in retirement and disability. After all, there is little we can do about getting old and ill, and the distinction between employees and entrepreneurs is very artificial. This also solves other problems: the race down in terms of working conditions and the unfairly distributed tax pressure between people with a fixed contract andzzp'ers. Since the latter usually do not build up a pension and therefore do not pass the cost on to their rates, they are soon 20% to 25% cheaper than an employed person. That is unfair competition, and it reduces wages. Zzp'ers also pay less taxes, while, because they do not have a pension and often do not have disability insurance, they are ultimately much more dependent on the social security system, of which the people in permanent employment pay a greater share. This is not a matter of solidarity, but it is a calving off of social services unnoticed, slice by slice. If you think about this to its ultimate consequence, there are ultimately too few people who still pay enough tax to keep AOW and assistance on hold, while the group that needs these facilities is only growing. For the PvdA, caring society is one to cherish, not only out of solidarity or humanity, but also because it greatly strengthens the resilience of our economy. Therefore, a simple solution for pensions and disability: make participation compulsory. Surely the Prime Minister can't disagree with that? If that is the case, the PvdA group would like to hear from him how he thinks he can keep our pension system financially viable and stop the race going down in terms of working conditions. Mr. Chairman. Now that the economy is recovering, the time has come for the PvdA to make everyone feel that way. The coalition agreement gives the impression that the cabinet also believes that everyone should benefit, because: "Too many people still think: beautiful, all these good economic figures, but they don't apply to me. If a lot of people are left behind, the whole society will eventually suffer." But unease and alienation seem to have changed nothing yet. The Council of State calls the dividing lines in society a fundamental concern. And the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau warns against the threat that the winners win in all areas and lose the losers in all areas. And the latter weren't invited to the cabinet's birthday party. About 4% of the population, 680,000 people, do not share progress at all. For these people, the problems are piling up. They are in a living situation that according to the SCP is "bad." A group of 30% is one of the stragglers. They're angry, and I understand that. They often have a rental house, are physically unhealthy, have a low pension. About 35% of people feel uncertain about their own future and that of their children. There is also a feeling that the government is doing too little for them, as the Scientific Council for Government Policy writes in an exploration of the middle class. The PvdA wants these people to be sure. 'Cause behind the cold numbers are poignant stories. Zzp'er Patricia has suddenly become blind, is not entitled to a benefit or amenities and lives from gifts from the church. Caretaker Marcel is at home because he's out physically. His wife couldn't take it anymore and left him. Now Marcel can't pay the rent, let alone the alimony for his kids. After a brain hemorrhage, 80-year-old Truus has to move into a neighborhood where she doesn't know the way and no one knows. Daan has spent longer on his studies due to health problems and cannot get a mortgage because of his higher student debt. Sonja became unfit for work, was then dismissed and has now recovered, but can no longer get a job as a 60-year-old. That is why I have the pressing question to the Prime Minister about what his cabinet is going to do in concrete terms to ensure that no one is left behind and everyone is taking advantage of economic growth. Mr. Chairman. For example, there is a huge gap between economic growth and people's perception. They feel that their security is being compromised. The certainty of a fixed contract, as the number of flexible contracts in the Netherlands is growing fastest across Europe. The security of an affordable house, as social housing disappears and investors in the big cities buy up a large part of the houses. And the security of good education, as there is an increasing shortage of teachers. In short, economic growth is not happy; prosperity must also be shared fairly. Otherwise, it's just a trick to distract us from the real problems in the Netherlands. To speak with the Arnhem philosopher Loesje: "Jarig. The more candles, the bigger the cake." It's a shame about that cake when so few people are invited to Rutte II's birthday party. Oh, that was a very nasty slip; I mean Rutte III. I will repeat it so that there can be no misunderstanding: a waste of that cake if so few people are invited to Rutte III's birthday party. When it comes to the PvdA, Michiel, Brigitte, Edith, Patricia, Marcel, Truus, Daan, and Sonja also deserve an invitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I give the floor to Mr Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u14	Thank you, Madam President. In 1513, the pioneering book Il Principe van Machiavelli, secretary of the Republic of Florence, was published. This book dedicated to his prince Lorenzo de Medici is one of the most important works ever written about politics and the state. For the first time, government authority was analysed and legitimized independently of the religious morals that were customary until then. In the search at the end of the Middle Ages for a rational legitimacy of the exercise of state sovereignty, Machiavelli came up with a guide for the absolute ruler. A successful frost had to radiate boldness and act decisively. Portrait and identification were to derive the prince from skill and results, not virtues. Machiavelli thus kicked off the development to the modern Western state based on the rule of law and democracy. This development ran shortly from an absolute state sovereignty to a state power initially limited by constitutional principles such as fundamental rights and separation of powers and ultimately by the democratic basic principle of popular sovereignty. In this context, the original concept of "people's sovereignty" should be understood as constitutional sovereignty. It is the constitutional and representational institutions that exercise powers on behalf of the nation, that is, on behalf of the nation. Thus, in a pluralistic society, the people are not in fact a homogeneous community and the "people's will" is a normative unity constructed by constitutional rules. The elections illustrate this: voters secretly vote on how the country should be led and elected politicians are accountable. Mr. Chairman. I needed this run-up to be able to say something about democracy, which is a subject for D66. Above all, we attach great importance to the link between democracy and the rule of law. A democracy cannot be without the rule of law. The rule of law guarantees citizens' freedom vis-à-vis the state. On the one hand, there is a reduction in power within the state based on the trias politicians. In addition, there is a reduction in external power in the form of protection by fundamental rights. History has taught us how a one-dimensional interpretation of the principle of popular sovereignty can turn into tyranny and how a parliamentary democracy can be overthrown by a totalitarian regime. We also see examples of illiberal democracies in our time and even within the EU. The significance of these observations is seen by the fraction of D66 in the development of a political and social culture, in which the nuance and contradiction resemble the retreat. Increasingly we see a political and social style of communication in which one primarily assumes oneself, issues are simplified, positions harden, imaginary conspiracy theories are put forward and only tambourized on one's own story. Self-reflection is taking place less and less; it is preferable to point out that opinions of others are considered to be wrong. Borders are also imposed exclusively on the other. The paradoxical threat that arises here is that a culture of political disruption and social exclusion is established by appealing to "the people" and below but incorrect interpretations of popular sovereignty and the nation state. Here the joy of the group feeling threatens to gain from reasonableness and legality. In my group's view, only one effective response is possible against distrust and even popular anger against migrants and against those responsible as political elite: continuing to engage in the debate on the basis of the values of the democratic rule of law. Mr. Chairman. All this does not alter the fact that, in my group's view, the functioning of our parliamentary democracy has the necessary bottlenecks to be identified. At the heart of the matter is the inconsiderable loss of legitimacy of political institutions and, above all, of officials. This is mainly linked to the development of the original electoral democracy towards a party democracy. In the so-called monist political culture, the legislative and executive powers have been merged in such a way that a substantial separation of powers cannot really be said anymore. This perception affects the image of a "partial" legislator. Since the so-called revolutionary year 2002, the problematic aspects of our representative democracy have become more pregnant. People's confidence in the state system, institutions, the political process and especially in politicians and administrators has been substantially reduced. Solving this problem cannot be left to new parties with radical solutions. The democratic rule of law has also been a welfare state for several decades. In the last century, in addition to the function of the government, which was primarily organized, additional public functions were developed, with which the government began to intervene in the service, care and direction of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u15	I listen with interest to the story of Mr Engels. I can endorse his analysis that there is a real problem at the moment with democratic legitimacy and that it cannot be filled with the emergence of new political parties. We need to find another way to connect with citizens so that they can be represented. Now we all know what has happened over the past few years. The consultative referendum was carried for the grave. Can Mr Engels outline how the D66 Group intends to close this gap, to give citizens the feeling that they are participating and that what is decided is based on the views of the voters, of the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u16	I'm still on the run. I'm coming out of something you're asking about. Of course, I don't know if that's gratification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u17	Fine. I thought there might be a snipe here because you're going to the subject of the welfare state.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u18	I took a really long run because this is the last time I'm standing here. So I take that freedom, by the way, with the agreement of the group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u19	Okay. I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u20	Since the 1980s, however, problems have arisen in the sustainability of the welfare state, particularly as a result of economic growth which has stagnated at times. This is particularly problematic because the welfare state has for a very long time actually played a legitimate role rather than democracy and the rule of law, at least as long as people's concerns and needs could be met. Efforts have been made to solve the problems of affordability and manageability, but cuts, privatisations, the autonomy of public services, deregulation efforts and decentralisations have suffered from a lack of political primacy and poor coordination of the various operations. As a result, the government is still overburdened and overasked. There is too little balance in the pretensions and results of the government. Meanwhile, as Paul Schnabel formulates the feeling of the Netherlands in his recently released book I'm fine, we're in a bad way, in both social and political terms, to have created a fundamental contradiction. This tension arises between those who seek the future, above all, in the preservation for the present generations of the welfare and welfare systems of the welfare state, and those who, with a view to future generations, are heading in particular for the transition to a sustainable economy and further European integration. My group sees a link here with the observation developed within the WRR that we live in a very diverse society, without direction and without dominant leadership. With the disappearance of collective ideals and organisations, people have started to seek guidance on primary identities such as nationality, ethnicity, gender and religion. The political and social debate is no longer just about the distribution of wealth, but also about the demand for individual identity, that is, the need for people to have social recognition. In my group's view, that is precisely why, in the wake of the new political parties, more and more people believe that political decisions are not democratic if they do not respond to the opinion poll of the day inspired by primary reflexes. This seems to remove the reasonableness from the political and social debate. Mr. Chairman. Within the D66 Group, there is concern whether our democratic rule of law will be able to withstand this development without revitalizing it. The fact, for example, that there is no direct relationship between the results of the election of the Chamber and the government to be formed is a weakness in our parliamentary democracy. The fact, for example, that the illegality of formal legislation cannot be judged on the basis of the Constitution is a weakening of the legal protection of democracy. In order to restore confidence in representative democracy, we must now move quickly and seriously towards modernising the existing political structure and culture. Otherwise, further political instability and increasing loss of social confidence in the representative institutions will be threatened. This means focusing on institutional reforms and giving citizens more direct control in parts, without going through the abandonment of constitutional principles and the establishment of a one-dimensional direct democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u21	I did not want to break the run-up to the speech. In the interesting speech, however, I did not agree with the year 2002, which marked Mr Engels as a kind of tilting point. That was in the period after D66 had been part of the government. This afternoon at the commemoration of Mr Wim Kok, who was indeed commemorated with honor, it was hinted that there was a lot of displeasure at the time. So I'm not just going to put that on D66, but it was a fact that it was also in the government. My question is: what has D66 learned from that period, which prevents that in the coming period, in which D66 is also of the party, that individualization stroke will become even more severe? That's actually how I interpret that period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u22	Ah, yes, I was already looking for what kind of question you wanted to ask me. In the last sentence, the word "individualism" occurs. The link to D66 was also a bit dark to me, because I am suggesting a much more general phenomenon that since 2002 the discontent with the state of our representative democracy has accelerated in a certain way. In my view, there are many more factors for this than developments within my own party, which I do not have the full picture of either. In no way have I wanted to establish a relationship with one of the important 'i's' that have ever been identified by the Social and Cultural Planning Office, namely individualisation. As far as I am concerned, this is not one of the relevant factors, at least not in my speech, which have played a role in this. I understand, however, that from your point of view, you have a particular interest in individualization.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u23	That is right, Madam President, Mr Engels is right. I have a very strong impression that it is the individualization that has driven us apart. I was simply curious to hear Mr Engels' reflection on whether that was part of the period before that, the so-called purple period, and whether we can prevent it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u24	I understand the question. My speech is not exactly in that key to individualization as an exponent of the purple period, so let me summarize your speech. That's actually what I'm not aiming for. What is behind your question, Mr President, and that is not an excuse, Mr President-in-Office, will be dealt with shortly. This is still a run-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u25	I would like to join Mrs Strik, waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u26	Sure, a very interesting combination as far as I'm concerned. The next moment is the forthcoming final report of the State Committee-Remkes. In the debate on the repeal of the Consultative referendum Act, the Minister for Foreign Affairs undertook to give serious and positive attention to the report. In my group's view, this means that we are coming up with further proposals. What I would now like to ask the Prime Minister is whether he wishes to reflect in his response on the state of democracy and the urgency of the need for a democratic agenda for reform advocated by my group. We see the modernisation of representative parliamentary democracy as a joint responsibility and a joint task for the central constitutional institutions. Are you prepared to scale up your political weight, so that the cabinet under the direction of the Minister of State, on the basis of the forthcoming report of the State Committee on Parliamentary System, will come forward with a coherent political reform agenda? That's how I ask the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. A complication in all this is the underestimated role of the Constitution, as an obstacle to political reform.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u27	I'm a little hesitant because I don't know if I'm asking the question at the right time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u28	No, by definition, that's never the case with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u29	Let's listen to the question. Mr Engels asked a question to the cabinet about the democratisation agenda. That is why I think I can now put another question to Mr Engels about this. Mr Engels mentioned a number of issues which should be on his agenda for such a democratisation plan. One of these things is constitutional review and institutional reform. I also understood that Mr English was not talking about one-dimensional forms of direct democracy. Maybe he can explain that, because I understood that his party is still in favour of a collective binding referendum. But let's take that constitutional review. To what extent was the subject of the coalition negotiations in order to actually get that into the agreement? To what extent will Mr Engels try to gain support within this cabinet in order to achieve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u30	You are very fond of my vanity by assuming that I would have some insight into the conduct of the negotiations that led to the formation of this cabinet. I wish it were true, but it's not. I don't want to say that everything would have looked very different, but it's not true. So I do not know whether this issue has been discussed in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u31	Further on, D66 has renounced the consultative referendum. In the publicity about this, and also here in the debates, D66 says: we are in favour of other forms of democracy. I can imagine that you, as a group, are actually going to try to get something else in return if you have to turn in one. That is why I would like to know to what extent this cabinet period will be able to get this democratisation agenda off the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u32	That is exactly the question I have now asked the cabinet. That is the position in which my group is now moving in this Chamber. That is also a continuation of the debate we had earlier on the repeal of that law. I therefore call for attention to be paid to the report of the State Committee, because it will be an important moment, as I said. I do not yet know exactly what is in that report, but there are signs that substantial proposals will be made to improve the system, including forms of direct democracy. I didn't say I wouldn't be in favour of one-dimensional forms of executive democracy. I have said that as a group we do not opt for a one-dimensional direct democracy as a start and end form. That's a lot different. We see governance democracy as a desirable and necessary complement to the existing representative system. But I'll get to that. There are a lot of modalities for that. What I really don't want to do today is to mention a well-known slogan to propagate how my own party is developing all kinds of proposals to give shape and substance to all kinds of modalities of direct democracy. What I do want to do is to respond to the expectations I have of the report of the State Committee on a number of essential points. I mentioned two: the formation of the cabinet and the constitutional review. I'm going to mention another element. In any case, I believe that these points should be taken into account in the government's cabinet response. I am not just talking about the cabinet response; there will also have to be follow-up proposals on this point. I stressed this in the debate on the consultative referendum, and I stress this again, precisely because my group considers it extremely desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u33	Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u34	Yes, finally, Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u35	I also ask this question because we now have the situation that we have lost this one form of direct democracy, when nothing has replaced it. That was an important reason for us to say: we do not want to give up this instrument now; it is going too fast. That is why I am asking about the opportunities that you see that there will actually be a follow-up with alternatives that will make D66 happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u36	The latter is, of course, very important, namely that that feeling of happiness is going to come back to my party, as long as it is already gone. It's very difficult to answer the question of how I see the odds. What I can only do at the moment on behalf of my group is to emphasise to the cabinet how essential this point is for my group. I look at my own rulers. It will be very important for us that the cabinet makes a catch-up on this point, while nothing has been agreed in the government agreement on these issues. That's exactly why I wasn't there either. I don't want to get crazy about this. That is why I have taken a long run, and I have dealt with this point very extensively, in order to show how essential this is for my group in this Chamber. Then it makes no sense, just because of political strategy, to agree on the exact modalities to be covered, the timetable to be included and the likelihood of this happening. We assume that the cabinet takes this so seriously that I can assume that there will be more than the response we have seen from a previous cabinet or a previous report from a state committee. That was a summary: we do not recognize ourselves in trouble. Then I guess we're gonna have a problem. But I await the government's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u37	Mr Engels felt that it was time for self-reflection, also because these might be his last general considerations here. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u38	That's not nice at all, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u39	It is nice that at such a time a politician transcends himself and reflects on himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u40	That's pretty good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u41	In this context, the question, looking back, of whether it was very sensible on the other side of the House to wipe it off the table after the second reading of the law on the corrective referendum, tabled by your party, among other things. Wouldn't it have been much wiser across the street not to throw away this law, because there is already a good chance that the state committee will come up with a proposal for a corrective referendum? 'Cause now it's gonna cost us another eight years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u42	That is the same type of question that I had previously received from Mrs Strik and possibly from others. It is not understood that D66 does not fall every time the word "referendum" sits down on her knees and worships it and embraces it. The point is that when we talk about "the" referendum, we need to define much more precisely what kind of referendum we are talking about. In the case referred to by Mrs Strik, it was about the Advisory referendum Act. I have been very detailed in this Chamber about what we think of it, that we do not think it is the ideal form and what form we think it is ideal. The same applies to your question. The proposal to which you refer, which was submitted to the House of Representatives, was a proposal which was dressed up in a way that did not satisfy what we thought should be a binding corrective referendum. That's why. If you listen carefully to how I keep raising this issue, you will hear that, if it comes up with follow-up proposals, I think that the cabinet should come up with good proposals in the sense that they should be coherent, that they should be system-compliant and that they should fit properly into the Constitution. We are not going to use the reflex: every referendum is fine for D66, so we are in favour. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u43	I was talking about a bill proposed by your party, along with some other parties, and also supported by your party, by Mr Engels' party, in this Chamber at first reading. Then you can expect a party to be reasonably served. She came up with it herself, and she made it through this room. Then it comes to the House of Representatives and what does the party of fellow English do? He says, no, we're not gonna go through with it anyway. And now I hear that you actually thought it was a bad proposal. Surely it would have been better if we had heard the first reading from Mr Engels 'there is a proposal from us here, but it is quite a wrong proposal'? That's weird, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u44	Yeah, I understand. I assume the situation you describe, that in the Lower House there is a fraction of party A x and that of the same party A in another Chamber y, will not occur with you or very rarely. But reality is this one. My brothers and sisters on the other side have made this decision, with the result that the proposal never came here. Then you can ask me if I like that. Well, that's a responsibility of the House of Representatives at that time and I'm not going to give any further judgment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u45	Mr. Kox, finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u46	Yeah, finally. It is just that the Chamber is trying to understand what the fraction of D66 in this Chamber really wants. I notice there's a bill from Mr. English's party. That will be in the House of Representatives: support. That comes in the First Chamber and is defended here by D66 politicians, and is supported here. Then it goes back to the House of Representatives and then the party of colleague English says: no, now we are no longer in favour. And now he says: I do expect the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior to respond seriously to a proposal from the State Commission. One of these proposals is probably going to be "we've heard of Mr Remkes' "a corrective referendum'. Well, then we're not doing the right thing, are we? Well, then, if you're reflective, can I just say that that wasn't so smart?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u47	You may ask, but my reflection does not go so far as to reach that conclusion. I'm just waiting to see what exactly the modality the state committee is going to come up with, and then we're gonna see if that's the right one, eventually here when it comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u48	Mr Engels puts many interesting things on the table. Thank you for that. I appreciate that, including for the debate. You are now again pleading for democratisation and a kind of programme for it. My question is what this will help us to do if we compare this with the analysis that you yourself are giving about the development of our political system, which also indicates that this is suffering from a lack of awareness of direction. That's what you called yourself. Is this going to help us restore reasonableness? You have dropped that word a number of times, restoring reasonableness in our political system. Is this going to help us find a substantive direction? How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u49	I'd like to break in first. I find it all very interesting, but I think we should leave it to the answer you are going to give. Because we are going very far towards the report of the State Commission, which is not yet available. That debate is coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u50	I would have liked to have answered, perhaps I would not have met my good colleague, Mr Kuiper and you, that I think I just outlined the reason behind this, namely that the answer to the loss of legitimacy we are seeing and that is increasing and the radicalisation we are seeing must be a revitalisation of the existing system. That's what we believe. We think it is high time we did not maintain the status quo in it, because then this development will become stronger. That is the reason, and I have said this several times in different ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u51	One more sentence, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u52	One sentence, Mr. Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u53	That seems to me to be relevant to the debate, because it is continuing. I think you want to answer something that has something to do with culture in our society, and that is what you also call it. Your solution is much more instrumental. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u54	You are right, but you must bear in mind that, as far as I am concerned, structure and culture are always linked. Structural change that does not bring about cultural change is pointless, but it will not succeed without structural change. That is also our belief. Mr. Chairman. I come to another complication about the Constitution. We believe that the current Constitution used in the political debate undermines the meaning of the Constitution. The existing revision procedure of the Constitution offers a minority of a third party an excellent opportunity to work at second reading to adapt the Constitution necessary for institutional reforms and thereby maintain the status quo. I think that has proved sufficient in this Chamber. In addition, it is serious to note that the notion underlying the system of two readings of an electoral judgment on the proposed amendments is a fiction in practice. My group therefore believes that, in addition to the substantive proposals of the State Committee, it is necessary to reflect on the existing revision procedure of the Constitution. That is why, in line with the aforementioned commitment of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I am now asking the Prime Minister to ensure that a proposal for a less rigid and more democratic revision procedure for the Constitution will also be developed in this context. Mr. Chairman. I now come to the state of the cabinet. Only now. The budget contains a lot of good news, we have heard, and the cabinet does not lack ambition, but my group does not close its eyes to the fact that not much appealing results have been achieved in the first year. In addition, it is not good to find out what vision these proposals have behind them. My group is primarily looking for a coherent story on the quality of the public sector. We see and understand the growing concern about this. After all, we cannot close our eyes to the growing divisions in our society: between poor and rich, between lower and higher educated, between immigrants and natives and between generations. The response to this increased fragmentation in society is not a deviation of the public sector and will, in any case, have to be found in a greater commitment to promoting equality of opportunity. In this context, investment in education is so crucial. A higher level of education increases confidence in the future and reduces fear of globalisation and technologicalisation. Our education in the international rankings is still well off, but we are losing ground compared to some Asian countries and even European countries such as Finland and Estonia. For this reason, my group continues to call for even more attention to be paid to the quality of education and research. However, investment in the collective sector and also in education tends to focus primarily on catching up in salaries. My group needs more substantive initiatives. It should be more attractive for young people to serve the public cause. Not only in terms of financial remuneration, but above all in terms of the appeal of the work. I would ask the Prime Minister if he wants to get to work on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u55	Let's get back to the equality of opportunity in education. I wholeheartedly agree with Mr Engels that this is an important subject. At the same time, we see that in primary schools pupils from poor parents receive lower advice, wrongly. We see that success in high school depends on extra tutoring and therefore the thickness of your parents' wallet. I would very much like to know from Mr Engels what specific measures he would propose to combat this inequality of opportunity in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u56	Two comments. No, I'm gonna drop that one comment. I am not going to make any concrete proposals here. I address the problem. In your speech, you have raised a number of people, especially those who have certain problems. I have two daughters myself who work in primary school. So I have an above average understanding of what's going on in this section; not from my own knowledge, but because of it. What I want to do here is address the problem and ask the cabinet to stick to the existing policy of a quality impulse, but not only to do so in the form of raising salaries. There are much broader problems. You mentioned them yourself. You're calling them now. I see them, too. I ask the cabinet if it can get more attention, because it is essential to increase equality of opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u57	Then I am eagerly looking forward with you to the answer of the cabinet to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u58	Let's do that. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to court now. In the last debate on the state of the rule of law, it has been established quite generally that our chain of law is squeaking and cracking in all its joints. In recent years, the board of the sitting and standing magical austerity has been stacked on a setback. For my group, it is essential that cost reduction throughout the whole chain should no longer be at the expense of the administration of justice, even after 2019. My group would like to stress the importance of an adequate social lawyer here today. The government agreement does mention both an improvement in the financial position of the social lawyer and legal aid, but the development of income within the social lawyer is not reflected in the pointy clouds of income. The provision of services to citizens who cannot afford legal aid themselves is still under considerable pressure. This also calls for access to justice. This process is further strengthened by an increase in the Registry fees. On our questions in spring on the system of financing of justice, the Minister for Legal Protection indicated that this would be looked at. The Minister also promised our spokesman a vision of the future of the legal profession. We haven't seen much of that. The D66 Group does not take sufficient account of the fact that these urgent problems are adequately addressed in the cabinet plans. I would like to hear more from the Prime Minister on this point and ask him to reflect on the name of the Minister for Legal Protection's portfolio. A second issue concerns the future of the labour market and our pension system. On the labour market, there is an unabated need to recalibrate the relationship between fixed and flex, with the failure of the DBA Act still fresh in memory. Although our pension system looks like the best in the world from outside, it no longer provides the right basis for many participants. In my group's view, maintaining a pension system that once fulfilled, but is no longer sustainable due, inter alia, to demographic developments and changes in the labour market in its existing form, is no longer justified. My group therefore looks forward with great interest to what the cabinet will present to us on these two points. I would ask the Prime Minister to inform us now of the current state of affairs. Creating a climate agreement is the main task of this cabinet. My group does, however, have the impression that it is pinching and sanding at the climate tables and that progress is being made only with bumps and bumps. I would ask the Prime Minister if it is not time for the leaders concerned to be more active at the various tables. Where and how does the cabinet intend to standardise, price and subsidise? What measures does the Cabinet exclude in advance? How are we going to ensure that businesses and citizens are involved? My group believes that negotiating results should be achieved in the coming weeks, so that there is an ambitious and concrete climate agreement this year. We are thinking, for example, of introducing a CO price for industry, a conversion in the agricultural sector for healthy food production while maintaining a sufficient entrepreneurial perspective and a band to be set for the development of energy costs. My group realises that it is a difficult message to get companies, institutions and citizens involved in this, all the more so because there is a cost factor involved. But the prospect of a better climate and a fair burden-sharing can be of great benefit here. This requires a clear and unambiguous commitment from the cabinet. I ask the Prime Minister to reassure us on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u59	I am listening with interest to Mr Engels' speech. I hear him say that I very much appreciate that livestock farming should be involved in climate policy. At least, if I understood him correctly. Do I understand from that that I could find an ally in the D66 Group to shape the pricing of animal products in the context of climate policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u60	I am going to give you a political answer to that, and you know why. I'll always bring up the patience. This is the First Chamber. First, the cabinet's up. Then we'll have the House of Commons. What I can do here in general terms on behalf of my group is to push forward, to highlight, to stress that urgency is high. The element you mention, although there are more than one, will be very interested in us in the group, but of course it is about what this climate agreement looks like in the end. Then we will also assess which of the elements we consider important and which elements we find difficult and then we will have to consider whether that is sufficient or not. You cannot now ask me whether or not I want to go along with certain specific measures. I can't do that either, because I'm not the most involved in this matter. The coverage of the state of affairs is worrying. We must now try to ensure that the cabinet is in a hurry. That is one thing, because if we do not, we will not get to the questions you want to ask at all. And I'd regret that. I think we can at least find each other in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u61	That's nice. I'd like to sharpen my question a little bit. It's okay not to know everything about all the problems at the climate tables, but this is the elephant in the Chamber. At the climate tables, the main problem, namely emissions from livestock farming, is systematically silenced. My question is: do you think that something should be done about this, regardless of what specific measures you want to support or not, and whether it belongs in the Second or First Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u62	You obviously know that this is the case. I'm not at those climate tables. I don't have a day-to-day report on that either. So either that's silenced or not, I simply don't know. If that were the case, it would of course be a handicap. The only thing I want today is a commitment from the cabinet to stop sticking around in that hordes, punches, sanding and turning around each other. We want results. Then we have to assess that result. Then it might turn out that your assumption is reflected in the climate agreement. But I don't know if anything's being kept quiet. So I cannot give you an answer to that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u63	Finally, Mr. Coffeeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u64	I understand. This is what I'm talking about. At the moment when it does not come back to climate action and it is, objectively speaking, one of the main causes of the climate problem, can I assume that D66 would not agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u65	Then you can assume that the D66 Group will look very strongly at this, especially after your encouragement. But I cannot, in abstracto, decide for my group what we are going to do. At least, not in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u66	Mrs Sent, and I hope it can be a bit concise, because I am looking at the clock. We're running pretty late.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u67	I am pleased to hear Mr Engels draw attention to a number of major challenges: keeping the pension system financially viable, creating distortions in the labour market, achieving the climate objectives and funding them in a fair way. Do I understand that he believes that the cabinet should show more decisiveness in these areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u68	In not too many minutes, you'll understand what I'm saying. I'm moving on to the block now, because that's what it's called now, gas extraction. That is also an important issue for my group. It is encouraging, let me start with positive messages that the cabinet wants to phase-in the extraction of gas to zero. We assume that that promise stands. It is also good that the National Programme for a future perspective for Groningen seems to have begun to restore and strengthen regional socio-economic infrastructure. Here too, I would ask the Prime Minister to confirm that this project will continue financially and that it will not end with the 1.25 billion. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, after in-depth empirical research, we also have to note that there are still serious shortcomings in the implementation of the reinforcement operation and compensation. Happens in pace and bumps in providing clarity and security for affected residents. The Minister of EZK recently promised in the debate on the Law on Minimisation Gas Extraction that there would be a reinforcement plan before 1 December. He also promised that the delays in repairing the damage would have occurred within a year. I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister that he's going to oversee this. In particular, my group is concerned that the cabinet is sufficiently aware of the low level of confidence of regional residents in the government in particular. The concerns and emotions of the inhabitants concerned about their security are still not sufficiently identified and visible to them by the government. I would urge the Prime Minister to say that this more psychological context is given a more prominent place in this dossier, so that a real start can be made to regain the greatly diminished confidence. Finally, Mr. Chairman, and you look relieved. That is a great joy to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u69	You seem to see something in my face that isn't there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u70	I've had a lot of that with ladies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u71	I won't respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u72	You certainly shouldn't do that, because we'll get more misunderstandings. I've raised enough misunderstandings today, I see. The D66 Group sees many good ambitions and also policy intentions. However, we do believe that it is time after the first year of operation to implement the agenda. More friendlyly, my group believes that the cabinet still needs to get on its feet. So far we have seen a little too much tough language and too little plans and legislation, although in one case we do not mind. My group is also aware that it is not so easy to take decisive and rational decisions in the Netherlands on complex and diverse social issues. There is a certain fear of change in the Netherlands, but also of political and social obstacles. Nevertheless, in my group's view, the cabinet cannot and must not continue to evade its essential role, even if it is right and proper to seek broad support. But the outsourcing of substantial ambitions in areas such as climate, labour market and pension systems to the polder has its limits. After all, the political primacy lies with the cabinet and then with the parliament. We call on the cabinet not only to show action in the coming year, but above all to show appealing results in the spirit of Machiavelli. Because that's when "Trust in the future" comes again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u73	Thank you, Mr. English. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u74	Mr. Chairman. "Confidence in the future": this motto was chosen by the coalition parties last year for their agreement. And who doesn't want that? It has to be said: the agreement expressed great ambitions. But words, we know, don't give confidence yet. Creating confidence in the future requires consensus and drive, so that reforms are implemented in a timely manner. The good economic starting position of the Netherlands offers all the opportunities to do so. We had therefore expected to be driven by a fury of revolutionary plans and legislation. But so far it's been awfully quiet about these reforms. It's like the Cabinet's got enough to say to itself. The slowness of the cabinet is not compatible with the initial bravure, and certainly with the hot breath of the provincial state elections. Of course, I have to tell the whole story, honor who deserves credit. The abolition of the referendum was quick enough for the cabinet; if D66 had to swallow, then quickly. The burqa ban was also settled in this way and not to forget the Intelligence and Security Services Act. But I am referring here to the willingness and ambition to sustainably reform, to really prepare the Netherlands for that future. I would therefore like to take the cabinet on the first anniversary to those clearly defined spearheads that I was able to read in the birth card, the coalition agreement. For example, the agreement stresses the Dutch values "which we must maintain, share and pass on." The question is, however, what values the cabinet is referring to and why. As far as we are concerned, the characteristics of the democratic rule of law, our tradition of tolerance towards non-thinkers, non-believers and people of a different origin, but also international orientation, tradition, at least after the Second World War, are at the forefront of protecting people who have to flee their own countries. And more recently in history, these values also expressed themselves in a strong welfare state, in which we look back at each other. I'm not sure the cabinet wants to strengthen these values by hoisting our flag more often and singing the Wilhelmus. But we think it is important that the values that form the fabric of our society are really the basis of domestic and foreign policy. Can the Prime Minister show us how that happens? To start right away with the last...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u75	But Mrs. Sent would like to ask you something first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u76	To what extent is there room for the broad-welfare concept in the value framework that you outline?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u77	That is, of course, part of that. I will come back to that in detail later. But let's start with overseas. Is the Prime Minister prepared, for example, to stand up for the fundamental values of the European Union? Governments send refugees back to inhumane detention centres in Libya or basic refugee camps with no perspective. This shift policy is not in line with the global call for more solidarity, such as the UN Global Compact on Refugees, which is almost ready for acceptance. And it also triggers mutual shearing within the EU. Unfortunately, a wrong example also follows. How will the Prime Minister reduce solidarity in the refugee issue, both inside and outside Europe? We are seeing a negative spiral in the hollowing states of the rule of law in Hungary, Poland, Bulgaria. Very worrying developments, because we need to be sure that all Member States within the EU can guarantee a certain level of rule of law. Fortunately, there are encouraging judgments by the Court of Justice, but political pressure is indispensable for compliance. Is the Prime Minister prepared to take the initiative within the Council? With this he would give a wonderful follow-up to the actions of other Dutch people, Timmermans and Sargentini. And with that, too, he would do justice to the ambition of the coalition agreement: "strengthen, share and pass on our values." Mr President, another ambition of the coalition agreement is: "We are addressing the challenge of climate change. The Netherlands will be sustainable." The greenest cabinet ever jubilated some coalition parties. The embrace of the Climate Act of Klaver and Asscher was a good first step, but real results require concrete implementation. When the climate tables didn't come out, the cabinet itself could have made decisions. But this greenest cabinet ever opened a second round of negotiations, despite the conclusion of the Planning Bureau for the Environment and the Central Planning Bureau that political choices must be made quickly. In the Urgenda case, the Court of Justice sends the same message to the Cabinet: take responsibility for the agreements made. But the coalition makes the impression of a rabbit looking into the headlights. Why don't the coalition parties show political leadership here? Are they so united in the green ambitions? In any case, one party is making no mistake about this and is openly obstructing it. The other day, Buma even said that talking about climate was a big risk and warned of a division that would cause climate policy. Such a coalition partner is not looking for support for government policy or to prevent that division. But fair climate policy requires concrete short-term measures, including fair burden-sharing. The additional CO levy for industry, which we read in Minister Wiebes' letter, is an important step, but not enough. In the meantime, the 55% reduction target for 2030 is increasingly supported. But this huge task requires brave politicians who do not shy away from any taboos, for example about a sustainable agricultural or transport system, and who make choices. Only then can sectors focus on this. The uncertainty of citizens is fed precisely by the fact that the cabinet does not give any insight into a burden-sharing and desire-sharing exercise. Does the Prime Minister recognize this? And what can we expect from him in the short term? Another ambition is: "We invest in collective provision, for example with extra money and human resources for safety, education and care."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u78	I had to take a longer walk; hence I come back to the climate cup, which you just talked about. How does Mrs. Strik judge how the court treats and handles such an Urgenda case? And what do you think is the consequence of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u79	The State has already appealed. So it's already an appeal. The court has confirmed the court's previous ruling. This shows that the judge is willing to take political agreements very seriously and to keep them to himself. In fact, the court states: Cabinet, you have to fulfil your responsibility and your commitments to citizens, for example, that those climate objectives are being met, because they have a right to and interest in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u80	Does Mrs Strik think that this only applies to the climate objectives or to other objectives? 'Cause you could take the DOD standard, that 2% should go to NATO. Imagine the judge saying that to the cabinet. So you're saying, cabinet, listen to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u81	I can imagine that the more specific the arrangements are, the more serious the judge will take them. In this case, of course, the judge has also indicated the importance of ensuring that the agreements are actually complied with by citizens, because this also means that their health is at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u82	Finally, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u83	The same could apply to the security of citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u84	It could be. Another ambition, as I have already said, is to invest in our collective services, for example with extra money and human resources for safety, education and care. Recent demonstrations give the impression that professionals in healthcare, education and the police themselves seem to have a different view of "investing" than this cabinet. When things went badly, the public sector was cut off year after year. People might have been able to understand that, even though they found at the same time decentralisation and austerity. But now that things are going well, there's only a small amount of repair. If the Prime Minister has antennas for society, he knows that our professionals will no longer accept this tip now that the Netherlands is in the wind. The structurally high workload leads to predatory construction on their health, but also to reduced quality. The recent closure of four hospitals without any intervention from the government..... which makes a contrast with the banks.... caregivers and patients uncertain. It reveals how successive Cabinets have made our public tasks dependent on market forces and private parties. However, it is the public sector that protects our values: investing in equal opportunities, caring for each other, ensuring our civil rights through accessible legal assistance and justice, and increased security. If the cabinet really thinks these values are important, then it invests in the quality of those public tasks. Maybe the national anthem will be used spontaneously. That is not going to happen, according to the dividend tax soap. When after a year of critical reports only one's own fiber remained to rely on, the lobbyists themselves killed Rutte's crown jewel. This was an excellent opportunity to devote the 2 billion released to the public sector or to climate action. Unfortunately, however, all these euros go to large companies without any sustainability conditions being attached to them. What a missed opportunity! While the Prime Minister turned out to be an argument for the abolition of dividend taxation, this has suddenly become an independent objective. But our locational environment is already widely praised and the tax on profits for companies is already relatively low. Moreover, does the Prime Minister pretend to support SMEs with this, but does he really think that bakers and bicycle makers would move abroad for the profit tax? If he really wants to support SMEs, why not reverse the VAT increase from 6% to 9% and give more labour discounts? The investment of 2 billion in business is worth a compliment to the VVD. Three parties submit to its logic, with which she knows 100% of its programme by a quarter of the votes. And that also translates into the polls. There seems to be a counterweight within the coalition that stands up for low-paid people and those with the least chance. Citizens' lives are becoming much more expensive and many of them do not receive compensation through the general relief, because they simply have too little income for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u85	Back to the locational environment and the importance of the public sector. Could Mrs Strik say anything about the importance of the public sector itself for the locational environment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u86	Of course, that's important. You can also always see in the studies that public services such as good education and good care can draw people over the line and also draw them to work here. If that's all wrong, they'll tend to say, "I'll work at another company." Companies themselves therefore have an interest in ensuring that their employees live in a pleasant environment and that their children have the opportunities they need. Does the Prime Minister recognise that citizens' lives are becoming much more expensive and that they do not always receive this compensation through the general relief? And how's he gonna fix that? Why does the cabinet choose to least advance the group of single parents around the minimum wage? They deserve support to combine work and care. Isn't that more logical than raising the income of those who earn above average? Recently, colleague Rombouts made a compelling plea with a party member from the House of Representatives to reduce the number of children living in poverty by a quarter. Then we would have another embarrassing 300,000 poor children left in the rich Netherlands. It's a commendable plea, but it's not gonna work with this million-dollar note. How is the Prime Minister going to honor this rightful appeal? Mr President, I see that I only have a minute and a half left. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u87	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u88	I also hear Mr Engels say 'yes'. You don't have to interfere, Mr. English. Then I'm gonna move on to the next part. Mr. Chairman. Finally, we are not only facing political shifts in the Netherlands. The European Union awaits a turbulent period, with the approaching Brexit and elections in a period of polarisation and fragmentation. More than ever, citizens need the confidence that Europe offers sustainable solutions to problems they really face. This requires that financial interdependence is accompanied by joint agreements on socio-economic policies, education and other key factors that eliminate social inequality and exclusion. With a choice between greater fragmentation and greater integration within the EU, the latter is the only option for us. What future does the cabinet see for the EU? And how will Prime Minister Rutte, as one of the longest-standing leaders, use his credit to strengthen cohesion and solidarity within the EU? Mr. Chairman. At his arrival, this cabinet expressed the ambition to make the Netherlands future-proof. We'd like the cabinet to get back together and have the courage to choose. When it comes to sustainable and social measures, we would like to take an outstretched hand. So far, however, we have not seen these plans, let alone an outstretched hand. Still, we're running out of time. Everything points out that in six months' time the cabinet will have to work more intimately and constructively with the opposition. The sooner the cabinet is prepared to do so, the more trust the cabinet can actually have in the future. Either we're not having a party next year, or we're having a party with everyone. And that's when it's gonna be really fun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's our economical weather. That's something to be grateful for after difficult years. However, the message the cabinet gave with Princess Day was: The Netherlands is doing well, but counting on dark clouds on the horizon. The international situation is not calm at all; escalating conflicts can cause serious disturbances. Those who look through the lens of budget and Millionnota therefore see a double picture: satisfaction and uncertainty. In these General Political Reviews it is good to consider the broader context. The Netherlands is more than an economy that has to run. There are major challenges in the areas of climate change, digitalisation, the development of social and human capital. In the international context, the Netherlands is therefore one of the countries that is committed to a broader concept of prosperity and to the 17 sustainable development goals accepted by the UN. That is a good thing that has the support of this Chamber. In the meantime, we are working on a Monitor Brede Welvaart at the planning agencies, which will report annually, partly at the intercession of members Ester and Sent, sir and ma'am. The Council of State also puts this broad concept of prosperity at the heart of its opinion on the state budget. He asks whether our society is strong enough to ensure our prosperity in the future. The council points to political and social fragmentation, tightening dividing lines between higher and lower educated people in society and a new compartmentalisation, as it were, when "bubbles of like-minded people" arise. The council challenges the cabinet "to do more than what the plans show" and "not to shy away from new perspectives." In doing so, the Council wonders whether the public sector instruments have been adapted to the new challenges. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet takes this advice as support for what it already does, but at the same time remains on the level, for example when it comes to the concrete recommendation to use the Millions Note annually for a forward-looking reflection on bringing those sustainable objectives closer. My group invites the Prime Minister to respond to that opinion from the Council of State, which was not in the cabinet response so far, and to the political and social challenges that are identified therein. How is the cabinet implementing the international mission we embraced to achieve the sustainable development goals? Does this implementation, which is often intersectoral and also international, require a different approach from the government or at least those "new perspectives"? Can the WRR be asked to reflect on the design of government policy in the light of these sustainable development goals? Many citizens are concerned about society and the capacity of government to act. One of the drivers of this is the lack of enforcement of laws and regulations, visible in many areas. I want to make a point of this during these General Political Reviews. Too often there are examples of laxity or inattention, with the NVWA, the UWV or other services. Since the 1980s, the government has set or reduced core tasks such as enforcement and remote surveillance. We now have to regret that in many ways. There is a culture in which citizens and businesses can look up the loopholes of the law and go ahead. This does not do any good for confidence in the public sector or in our political system, nor for a reliable and high-quality execution of many of the work. In a complex society with many large and small interests it is necessary to regulate and also to maintain it sharply. But it is precisely the services that need to do that that have been reformed, cut back and the workload is high. State inspections have been reduced in numbers and many personnel have been discharged. There had to be a compact state service and the burden of supervision for citizens and businesses had to be as minimal as possible. But what good will it do for society if capacity is not sufficient, if much is overlooked or overlooked, and if random checks encourage the normalization of law violations? As far as my group is concerned, it is time for a different approach and a rethinking of a new supervisory vision that solves current enforcement deficits. What initiatives can the government expect to take in this respect? The previous cabinet had a state-wide approach to the broad supervisory framework, but we have not actually heard this cabinet about it so far. Mr. Chairman. The EESC welcomes the positive development of macroeconomic figures, but today citizens are also looking at other screens: a second, a third or another screen. On the second screen there is an unprecedented attack on public administration and the rule of law. I am referring to the underworld of drug crime, which is able to penetrate society in many places. Housing districts are literally poisoned, liquidations and threats of violence are part of daily news, strong mayors and civil servants are threatened. Dutch illegal drug laboratories would have a turnover of EUR 19 billion per year, with the production of synthetic drugs alone. In Eindhoven, there is a greater amount of money involved in the drug chain than is shown in the municipality's budget. The sad thing is that little progress is being made in the fight against this. "The fight against drugs is on a dead end," said Amsterdam Commissioner Aalbersberg at the beginning of this year. The link between this out-of-control crime and our drug-tolerant cultural environment must be mentioned. There could not have been such a huge production system if we did not see the use of drugs as more or less innocent part of our lifestyle and entertainment industry. It hasn't been for a long time. Doctors are ringing the bell. People take pills without knowing what's in them. Emergency services in large cities receive serious drug consumption cases every day. At Erasmus University, half of all students use drugs, especially synthetic drugs, according to their own research. The principal was shy about it. What are pious words about alcohol and smoking prevention if we allow this to happen? "We run the markets ourselves," said the Brabant Commissioner of the King Van de Donk recently with reference to festivals where a pill can be bought for a number of euros. We shouldn't think it's normal if drugging is supposed to cheer up our parties and if we let young people fall into a culture of self-harm. Mr. Chairman. The undermining of the rule of law and public order also undermines confidence in our political system. The government is there to maintain security and public order. If this does not happen or is insufficient, the capacity of the government is questioned and its authority is at stake. This has already been mentioned here by colleagues. Images of mayors on a burgundy that receive the moral support of citizens are both heartwarming, but also intriguing and un-Dutch. Three years ago, I raised the same issue in the General Political Reviews. In the meantime, the phenomena of persistent drug crime are even more worrying and many authorities are more concerned. There is a task force and occasionally another EUR 100 million is added. The coalition agreement mentions a good commitment, but what counts is the result. How else? I would like to receive a precise response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. There is a fear that our democracy as such is in danger of becoming a reality. This theme has also been addressed by Mr Engels and is the next screen we are looking at together. Social fragmentation also manifests itself in decreasing political confidence or even in political unwillingness. There are now serious analyses about the "decommissioning of democracy" or how it can "end." The emergence of a new type of leader, a symbol of which is President Trump and others, is the cause of this fear, but also expressions of intolerance in society. What the first analyses make clear is that it is not so much the form of democracy that is being affected as the culture that has to bear it. I suspect that the ways of fellow English and mine are separated here. That is the culture based on values such as charity, care, mercy and respect. That is the culture that upholds justice as a reflection of deeper views on justice and human dignity. I know that in democracy, the truth perspective of one cannot prevail over the other, but that does not mean that we should not talk about it. Parliament is the place to conduct the dialogue on what is really right and right. Otherwise it becomes true what Johan Huizinga once wrote about a society in decline, where the engines can still run and the flags flapping, but where the spirit has departed. Mr. Chairman. These are my last general political considerations as group chairman in this House. I have always wanted to stand here as a representative of a party who is convinced that the human and world view of Christian faith matters in a political system. In fact, I am convinced that vital values of our democracy are fed, among other things, by Christianity. Our democracy has moral anchor points without which it cannot exist. The recognition of freedom of faith and conscience, which recognises the personal sphere of freedom and responsibility, has laid the foundations for many other constitutional freedoms. Those rights are rooted in a culture of respect, acceptance, tolerance, benevolence. They build a society in which it is about making people come to their senses as individuals and in their relationships. These moral anchor points are under pressure as a culture grows of intolerance, threat and contempt, wishing others away. Mr. Chairman. With me, many see the social polarization, verbal violence, the lack of respect and benevolence with sad eyes. It brings our society and democratic rule of law into uncertainty. I hope for a strong culture of faith, a Christian culture of faith, which continues to nurture our public values. I regard this culture as the spiritual capital of our civilization and also of our political system. If the day comes when this capital has been used up and the spirit has finally disappeared, democracy is also in grave danger. Mr. Chairman. I call on the Cabinet to be a genuine guardian of our rule of law and democracy and to speak boldly about what morale counts in our society. I wish you much wisdom and God's blessing in the performance of your task.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u91	I can go a long way with the values that Mr Kuiper has now set. I just named them, too. So basically, we can find each other a long way in there. But I have also tested government policy on the basis of these values, including the socio-economic policy pursued by this cabinet. How do you judge the government's policy of guaranteeing, standing firm for those values?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u92	I have now spoken about these values in relation to keeping the rule of law and democracy healthy. That starts with respect for the other and recognizing that the other has its own place, that it has its own position and that it has its own responsibility. You could translate that even deeper as a form of charity. I see this as one of the core values on which our rule of law and democracy are built. This also applies, of course, if you push it into the socio-economic sphere. If people also have to come to their senses in the socio-economic sense, this is in line with these values.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u93	Then how do you appreciate the cabinet measures in that respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u94	I also see a commitment in cabinet policy to this: commitment to other people, commitment to people living in poverty, commitment to human dignity, for example. So I certainly do not think it is absent. But you know how things are in the Netherlands: we form coalition cabinets. We do not live in the perfect society, but I do see a serious effort to make policies based on the values I have appointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u95	I'm just reflecting on that socio-economic aspect. Mr Kuiper rightly cites the Council of State as well as the importance of a broader concept of prosperity. The Council of State is very critical of the social divide in the Netherlands. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau draws attention to the fact that the losers lose and the winners win. Is the gentleman... Oh, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u96	Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u97	Mr Kuiper. I'm sorry. Sometimes you have a moment like that. Does Mr Kuiper agree that this, this social divide, is an urgent problem, which is not yet being addressed sufficiently?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u98	I think that is an urgent problem. This problem is not only due to this cabinet, which is only a year old, or to this cabinet policy. We have seen this pattern for many years, actually for decades. One could say that this goes hand in hand with the development we have seen since the 1980s: gradual phasing out of the welfare state, globalisation and greater forces. At the same time, however, I believe that we in the Netherlands are pursuing a sensible and moderate policy not to widen the gap. This gap is not only socio-economically defined, but also culturally defined. That is what the Council of State is doing very strongly by saying: the gap is growing between, for example, higher-skilled and lower-skilled people, or between people who are in their own bubble, with like-minded ones. So I think it is important that this is broken, so that people do not communicate with each other at all. That is, I think, the risk that the Council of State pointed out: the risk that society is fragmented by the fact that people are no longer able to speak or speak with each other, or that they are going to have advantages about each other. So I see it as an urgent problem, yes. I myself have also addressed my questions to the Cabinet: what are you doing with this comment from the Council of State and how do you connect this with a broader concept of prosperity, which also requires those seventeen United Nations sustainable development goals to be identifiable? If we do that, we will also respond to the societal challenges it poses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u99	Finally, Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u100	Finally. I have a concrete proposal. Your colleague Ester and I have asked if the planning agencies would like to publish their explorations in parallel with the Macro Economic Exploration of the Central Planning Office. That's what's happening now. That enriches our debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u101	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u102	We are very grateful for that. But I think the debate would be even more enriched if the government reflected on those explorations and we could include that reflection in our political reflections. Would you support that plea?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u103	In fact, I just asked. The Council of State says in its opinion: let the cabinet reflect on that broader concept of prosperity every year when publishing the millions note. As far as I am concerned, this is happening with the seventeen areas, the seventeen development objectives. In the response of the cabinet to the documents, i.e. to the Council of State, there was actually no substantive response to them. That's what I've been asking for. So we hope to hear it tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u104	Thank you, Mr. Kuiper. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The smallest fraction received the most attention this year in the Millions Note. Almost all the wishes of that smallest group were given priority over the wishes and interests of the largest groups. I am not talking about political groups. They are merely a tool for policy-making. The smallest fraction of life on Earth is formed by man. The 7.6 billion people that populate the Earth are only 0.01% of all life on Earth. Our kind of people. We are inclined to assign our group an disproportionate importance. From different beliefs people believe that man is the crown of the creation, the top of the food chain, the highest form of intelligence, and in any case that is what we have agreed with each other. This means that the short-term interests of man prevail over the interests of all other living species, above nature, above the environment, above biodiversity and above the interests of 99.99% of all other life that our planet occupies. Mr. Chairman. It is in no way the case that man is also the most sensible species in terms of protecting life on earth. In fact, man has a devastating influence on the rest of life, where money is the main driving force. Since the beginning of what we call our civilization, 83% of all wild mammals and 50% of all plant species have been extinct. Money is all that matters when it comes to it. But what good is money if the ice sheet melts? Never in history anywhere in the world did a political party choose a different kind of starting point of thought, until in 2006 the Party for Animals was elected to the Dutch Parliament. A one-day fly, so many Binnenhofwatchers thought. It's a joke that got out of hand. A cry for attention, which could soon die away. But by now, at least one of every thirty members of the House of Representatives is a member of the Party for Animals, and if we can believe the polls, it will reach one of every nineteen members in this House next year. This may be difficult for a coalition that rules with the smallest possible majority with a prime minister who, despite the promised outstretched hand, has little willingness to meet the very reasonable demands of the opposition. Even within the coalition, it is not easy to honor wishes because of the narrowed coalition agreement and the exchange of interests underlying it. This millions note is a melons note. The coalition parties have had to swallow or choke, if necessary whole melons, so they have already announced after formation. D66 knew before the start that halving rule means halving for that party. The VVD is severely punished by voters in the polls. The CDA loses almost half of its supporters. Only the Christian Union remains reasonably stable, and that could be appreciated for that melons act. The polder model has served quite well for a while, with the exchange of ideals and the shaking of ideological feathers. But now we have to recognise that living in the polder, below sea level, gives us every reason to take climate policy forward with greater speed than is currently the case. However, the cabinet is more aware of the entrepreneurial environment than of the need for climate action to protect the next generation from serious natural disasters caused by global warming by human causes. The 2 billion that the cabinet wanted to give to foreign shareholders every year is still going to improve the business environment, while entrepreneurs also have a particular interest in real climate action. After the Urgenda ruling in appeal, we know that the cabinet will have to make every effort to achieve the climate goals. But for the time being effective measures within the Cabinet are controversial: speed limits, charges for dirty cars, air traffic, ships, accelerated coal power stations close or............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The cabinet chooses to go in cassation against the judgment of the judge in the Urgenda case and actively gives the wrong example to the citizen, who is burdened more heavily in the field of climate policy than the polluting industry. Cattle farming accounts for only 18% of the calories in our food, but consumes 83% of the available land, accounting for 58% of all greenhouse gas emissions, 57% of all water pollution, 56% of all air pollution, and 33% of all water use, according to recent research by Oxford University. Can the Prime Minister indicate whether the cabinet is prepared to have all the externalities of consumer goods analysed so that at last the polluter can actually pay for what he is doing? Mr. Chairman. Slow market forces and improper protection measures for businesses give citizens a check-up. Last weekend hundreds of patients were discharged from hospitals, not because they were better, but because there were useful entrepreneurs who thought they could get better from other people's disease.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u106	Can I ask Mr Koffeman, who is offering himself up for new coalitions, to be more serious than I say, to think with me? I'm almost out of office now, and I have 10 grandchildren to eat every now and then. Let us assume, then, just for the sake of thought, that the polluter must pay a little more. My grandchildren and I are going to eat a little less and the farmer, whom you address, pays a little extra tax to the minister. Where's that money going? Does that go back to that food production? So, for example, the ham for those kids doesn't have to come from Parma? Or so smaller stables can be made? I come from a farm village, so I really do know how it works there, even though I live in a bigger city these days. My question is really very concrete and serious. How are we going to tell these consumers? Or are you going to say there again: well, Brinkman, you can afford it all yourself, then you have to pay for your neighbors as well? That too is serious. It's not about me, of course, but you understand my reasoning. I really love those animals of yours, and I like them every now and then, but what I don't understand in your reasoning is that you walk so carefully and conveniently around the question I put on the table. That's the same question I asked the cabinet. I said: listen, you need to be specific in the different sectors. And it's okay to be a little stricter. You know my eyes. But then I would also like to know what is going on with meat production, looking at the consumer. The farmer and the whole cattle chain aren't gonna pay for that themselves. He can't afford that either. A few maybe, like me, but I'm not a farmer. Nor should you ask me for advice: I am asking you for advice. You studied for it, you talk about it with passion. I also talk passionately about the fact that this is something that we cannot leave hanging in ideologies, but in which we have to tell the citizens how things are going. We can't run away from the idea that the farmer will.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u107	Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased that Mr Brinkman is asking that question, and I too am serious about that. Last week there was a pig farmer in the paper whose pigsty had burned down. All the pigs were cremated alive, and this man was horrible about it, because he loves his animals in his way. He knows they're going to the slaughter, but he's not gonna let this happen to his animals. During the aftermath of that fire, he made some notes, which he shared with the newspaper. He said that it is a scandalous situation that every day six to seven farmers have to stop, and that only scaling up offers a solution. Where we have to go, he says, is not a race to the bottom where there are too many pigs, but a situation where there are too few animals, so that prices can rise. At the moment, scandalous prices are being charged for meat, which really cannot be justified by anyone. If you go to the Albert Heijn now, you can buy four sats at the euro shopper for €0.28. There's no justification for that. There's just a real cost to be paid. The externalities, so everything that causes livestock farming and what we all now have to pay out of public money, will simply have to be paid by the meat consumer. At the moment, every citizen in this country is contributing €120 to the externalities of the bio-industry, even if he does not consume meat at all. In this sense, it is extremely important to say that it is a very liberal principle that the polluter simply has to pay for what he pollutes. I don't think there should be a party in this house that's against that. There is artificial use of scaling and cost reduction in such a way that the farmer cannot earn dry bread from it. That's a scandalous situation that doesn't make anyone any better. Again, the comment came from an unsuspecting angle. It was the farmer whose pigsty was burned down, who said: we need to keep fewer animals. And today there is a big article in Trouw, which shows that a majority of Dutch people say that we need to reduce the livestock, and that that majority wants to eat less meat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u108	Finally, Mr Brinkman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u109	I welcome your very substantive response. I have one question left. For a moment, in your speech, it seemed that a certain levy would have to be introduced in order to achieve all this. But ultimately it's about either eating less meat or paying more to fight all those externalities. My question remains how we can then make it clear to the average citizen, that is to say to the general public, that it is indeed a matter of either less meat on the table or that more is paid for it. I am not talking now as former Health Minister, but just from this environmental and energy point of view. This whole debate is always going on and on, at least I hear it when I listen carefully to your fellow Members, who are not generally able to do so. It cannot then be that you have the Minister collect all these charges and then say: 'Dear citizen, you will not see that money again'? So you have to make that argument again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u110	Yes, Mr. Chairman, it's clear. I have just said that livestock farming only supplies a fraction of the useful calories and proteins in our society and occupies 83% of the land surface. So we're going to have to go to a plant transition. The cabinet agrees with that, but it does change from one coalition to another: the previous coalition has released another 6 million to enable the transition to more vegetable proteins. At the moment when we would use the current agricultural area on this planet for plant production and plant human consumption, we could feed four billion more people. I therefore believe that we all cannot escape the observation that we cannot at present, in a world where there are shortages, afford to convert vegetable proteins into body heat via the gastrointestinal tract of an animal for 80%, and not into useful calories for human consumption. The moment we do this directly, we will come to great solutions. The six to seven farmers who now have to stop a day should also be met by offering them alternatives rather than just dropping them. In particular, the parties who say they are on the farmers' side should choose to give these farmers a perspective rather than let them die massively and only give them a chance, not only from an economic perspective, but also because of biodiversity and the climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u111	May I ask you to continue your argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Doctors and nurses were also put on the dike, with the cabinet blaming the health insurance companies, as if this debacle, many of which could follow, was not simply due to the privatisation of both health insurance and hospitals. The banks were too big to fail and were saved, one after the other, with billions of community money. That logic does not go for saving hospitals or protecting the interests of the weakest hospital patients against the rights of the strongest. This causes more and more citizens to lose faith in politics. This year alone, more than 100,000 animals have been burned alive because the coalition parties refuse to make fire prevention mandatory in livestock farming. Since 2008, more than 1.5 million animals have been burned alive by barn fires. Can the Prime Minister tell us when we can finally expect measures to provide this hell for animals with proper fire prevention? I'd like a response. What the Party wants for the Animals does not cost much money, but requires political courage, possibly the courage of despair when the cabinet in this house loses its majority. I look forward to the Prime Minister's reply. And oh yes, then there is that tricky point of closing the Crown Domain for the public, donated in 1959 to the Dutch people by Queen Wilhelmina but closed every year for three months for that people because there is to be hunted. Actually, there can't be hunting at all because there are no huntable species. The five huntable species we mention in the law are not hunted by the royal family, so there is no formal hunting. The pleasure of hunting does not need to be consumed or protected there either. A majority of the House of Representatives wants the largest nature reserve in the Netherlands to be opened year round. The Minister of Agriculture and the Prime Minister said that they could not do so because, according to Article 41 of the Constitution, the King "set up his House in the public interest." That public interest is precisely the jumping point. The king seems to understand that and indicated this weekend in the margins of the state banquet in England that the discussion on this matter should take place in parliament. And that's what happened. Parliament believes that the Kroondomain should be opened year round. My final question to the Prime Minister is therefore whether he is prepared to go down the royal road and open the Crown Domain year round in accordance with the wishes of Parliament and apparently also the King's wish. It could be a meaningful gesture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u113	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u114	Madam President. These are the last General Political Reviews for the First Chamber in this composition. I can imagine that the Prime Minister said on the Council of Ministers: boys and girls, let us now promise the groups of the First Chamber that they can all ask for something that really does not suit them and that we will honour it. So what could it look like today? I'm gonna try and start for me on the left, with the PVV. After some coordination, the PVV comes across the bridge: targeted use of development aid for assistance to the distant neighbours. SP: chooses to improve the trade relationship with Israel. OSF says stop the gender neutrality that has gone through, because we in the province just want to be able to show off Frisian stallions and the Zeeland girl. 50PLUS: let's have a Department of Child Services. Party for the Animals: an eye for the environment but room for farmers. GroenLinks: for Defense, on to NATO standard. And the Labour Party opts for national sovereignty over the number of asylum seekers to be included. It's a nice package from the opposition, isn't it? Now the coalition. The Christian Union wanted to talk about abolishing the dividend tax, but they have already got their way. The VVD: all room for entrepreneurs in the middle of the week, but not on Sundays. The CDA, if you don't mind, stop the weed law. D66, of course, does not hesitate for a moment about something they would never do: equal treatment of one- and two-earners. Finally, the SGP: Madam President, everyone agrees this time. That doesn't happen every Tuesday, so we book it in. For suppose the cabinet would honour all these proposals: that would of course be great. This would strengthen society on four core values: 1. balance in care and work; 2. a healthy business environment; 3. security and peace, near and far; 4. Respect for life and awe of death. These are four pillars, just like the four pillars below us, because this room, as you know, rests in the Norenzal on four pillars, which have a name: Love, Peace, Concord and Faith. I'll connect them to my four core values, and I'll be happy to walk them by with you. First the balance in care and work, the pillar of love.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u115	Honor for life, a core value of the SGP. I think it's great; really, I mean that sincerely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u116	Sure, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u117	However, I would like to ask the following question. Today, in Trouw, a Christian newspaper, there is an overview of how the voters of all political parties look at livestock farming and livestock in the Netherlands. In the Netherlands we slaughter 650 million animals a year, that is 650 million times without respect for life. The voters of the SGP are at the bottom when it comes to the desire to reduce livestock. Those of the Party for Animals are at the top. Can Mr Schalk indicate how he can relate respect for life to the slaughter of 650 million animals every year?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u118	That's an intrusive question. 650 million: there are small animals, but also cattle and so on. I don't know exactly how the numbers are, but it doesn't matter in the end. It's about the life that's affected. My party believes that at least livestock farming should put the animal's care at the top. That is not just a thought of the SGP itself. It is even a biblical thought: the righteous knows the life of his animals. The Lord Jesus gives wonderful examples of how to deal with an animal in need. Only, the SGP also believes that animals can be used for consumption. That's the big difference between the Party for Animals and the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u119	Finally, on this point. 'Cause I'm looking at the clock. We need to take a little time into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u120	I understand, Mr President, but it is really an important point. Anyway, there are obviously different views about respect for life, but it is very important to know that in the most dense country in the world the righteous no longer knows the life of his animal. Few farmers know the lives of their animals. I would also like to ask Mr Schalk whether he believes with me that the life of a chicken is just a small animal or the life of a cow for that animal is just as important as your life for you and my life for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u121	Let me just say a few words about the farmers. I was at a farm the other day. That farmer had like 180 cows. I was standing in the milk well and the farmer says, "That's him and that cow." I said, how do you know? He said: I can see that of course; I know which cows I have. That's a lot more complicated when you have 10,000 chickens. Everyone will understand that. 180 cows, that's still to be done. We can learn 75 names in this Chamber, but we don't all know by name all 17 million people in the Netherlands. But you have a point in that sense. Especially when it comes to huge numbers, it gets more distant. But that doesn't mean the farmer doesn't have a heart for that animal. I wouldn't say that when you don't know them. I don't know a lot of people either, but I have a heart for those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u122	Short, really short, Mr. Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u123	Yeah, finally. Mr Schalk says that it does not mean that the farmer has no heart for the animal. In a way, that can be true. But you also know many examples with me that the farmer is very hard on his animals. That is not in line with your Christian beliefs. I really think that the SGP should take a different position. When you say, "The righteous knoweth the life of his beast," do you commit yourself to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u124	When Mr Koffeman says that there are farmers who are hard on their animals, I say with him: that is not right! I was working on the first pillar: balance in care and work. I took the pillar "love" in that. The SGP is based on the biblical notion that God has created man and woman, who within marriage are allowed to perform care and work in the family and in society. Care is of course about one's own care, but also care in family, family and neighborhood. But it is also about caring for the children, in which the school participates in citizenship and education from its own point of view. And work includes both paid and unpaid work. In our society, it seems more and more to be about one's own perspective, about self-development and self-development. But it is precisely here that the government should focus on participation, not only from paid employment, but in the context of a broad concept of prosperity, as has been mentioned a few times today. My question to the Prime Minister is whether it is possible to give value to family care or family care. Madam President. In this context, I would like to return to a theme that my group has been concerned about for many years: the position of the single-earners. The whole society is crying out for equal treatment on all fronts. The question is: when are they due? Undoubtedly, the Prime Minister has taken note of the CPB report "Eendeservers' under pressure, of February 2018. The first two sentences of the summary are these: "The difference in the tax burden for one and two earners has increased considerably. The question arises as to whether a further increase is desirable for the sake of equality and efficiency." May I ask the Prime Minister to reflect on this question from this report? The second pillar: a healthy business environment. That is where I choose the 'concord' pillar. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats thinks there is room for entrepreneurship, but so that society does not suffer. In this context, the SGP commends the cabinet for refraining from abolishing dividend tax. The decision to strengthen the locational environment in other ways may justify the SGP, but there are some other important objectives. I mentioned all the one-earners, but I'm also thinking of paying off the sovereign debt. Why wasn't that chosen? A healthy business environment requires a good balance between business and home, between work and rest. The increasing Sunday work, especially due to the ever increasing opening of shops, is at the expense of Sunday as a salutary moment of rest, a gift from our good God. Does the Prime Minister agree with my group that a permanent resting place is the most desirable for everyone? And what about Mrs Keijzer's bill on strangle contracts for shopkeepers in shopping malls? My third point is peace and security, close and far. That is, of course, the 'peace' pillar. The tension between the great powers is increasing. Let's keep the peace. This is also necessary in the country I have just mentioned: Israel, the only democratic rule of law in the Middle East. Let us support them morally and, where possible, strengthen economic relations and trade relations. Several countries have rightly reduced their financial aid to the Palestinians, because the Palestinian authority rewards terrorists financially. Rewarding attacks is counterproductive to the peace process. Is this government prepared to shut down the money supply if practice doesn't change? In the context of peace and security, Defence is a continuous concern for the SGP Group. Over and over again, I insist on the fact that we do not even meet European standards, let alone NATO standards. There is certainly appreciation for the additional funds that have been allocated. But can the Prime Minister give an indication of how long it will take us to get close to the NATO standard? One more point in this context, which concerns migration policy, with the huge accumulation of procedures. That's just gonna get us losers. Now another committee has been set up to investigate this. Another commission. The impression is that there will not be a solution to any problem, but a committee. Can the Prime Minister give an overview of all the committees that are currently investigating difficult dossiers? The fourth core value: respect for life and awe of death. I use the 'faithful' pillar. I can't get used to 100 people being killed every day, 365 days a year. 30,000 abortions, 6,500 euthanasia cases. Amazing! In addition, many more can be killed if we, as a society, give in to the desire to end the so-called completed life. The coalition agreement indicates that further investigation is needed. Have recent developments in this area led to a shock reaction within the cabinet? As far as abortions are concerned, last year I pointed out the recidivism. I repeat once again that this concerns 10,000 cases of women having abortions for the second, third or fourth time. That problem would be addressed. Can the Prime Minister indicate whether any action has been taken and what its impact is? Madam President. In this context, it is good to consider a beautiful work of art here at the Binnenhof, between the First and Second Chambers. Here, behind the chairman, you will see a huge painting by King Willem II. He gave this out of discontent with the fact that he had no influence in this house after 1848 and said, "I will always be with you." If this painting were replaced by a large window, you would have a view of the fountain on the Binnenhof, on which stood the image of an earlier Willem II, Count of Holland and Zeeland and King of the Holy Roman Empire in the thirteenth century. A beautiful golden statue. Very familiar. But not so well known is the Latin spell, also carried out in gold. I make myself strong that no one knows what's in there. It's a spell from the Vulgata, the famous Latin Bible translation. The translation of this is: "You are my only hope, Lord, my God, from a young age I trust in You. I have relied on you since I was born, and in the womb it was you who carried me." This text does not, of course, only warn against damaging new life in the mother's womb. This text also offers great hope for all of us, when we put our trust in God, at all stages of life, on all the themes I mentioned, linked to love, unity, peace and faithfulness. That is what I trust the Prime Minister and all the ministers and secretaries of state, but also in the high office in which they are allowed to serve. This gives an extra dimension to the motto of this government: confidence in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u125	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u126	Mr. Chairman. A modern fairy tale tells us that everyone who lives in Lekkerland is making progress. We see a dancing man, who looks a lot like our prime minister and sings that: it's a good thing no one knows that my name is lying animal. It is true that now that economic growth is rising, especially in the coming year, the workers, who have also deteriorated in recent years, are being strongly encouraged to demand substantial increases. In stark and antisocial contrast, pensioners will continue to decline in the coming years and at the end of next year the threat of pension reductions for many Dutch people is a real danger. And that is completely unnecessary. Let us make an objective assessment of what has happened over the last ten years. The First Parliamentary Group of 50PLUS has recently commissioned the Nibud to set out for the last ten years, from 2010 to 2019, how purchasing power has developed. Received a few days ago and full report can be found on the website of 50PLUS. Pensioners with a small pension up to €5,000 per year have improved during this period, but a higher supplementary pension will reduce purchasing power. In most cases, workers are also declining, but less so than pensioners. Over the period 2010-2019, wage increases are 11.3%, compared with a negative indexing of pensions of 0.6%. That's a 12% difference. We also know from other sources that the difference in purchasing power between workers and pensioners is very large. At the request of 50PLUS, the CBS issued a chart covering 2000 to 2017. During this period, the purchasing power of pensioners was around 40% lower than that of workers. The new Nibud report estimates that prices increased by 14.7% and rents by 20.8%. The total missing indexation over the past ten years was about 15%. The most poignant are the groups with the big differences. Take the people with about a modal income. A single worker declined €300 on an annual basis, a single pensioner, on the other hand, over €1,800. Even greater is the difference at one and a half modes. On an annual basis, a working couple lost a fat €800, but a retired couple almost €3,200. It is right that the workers should now benefit from increased prosperity, but it is at least justified that pensioners should continue their missed indexation every year and that they should already share 15% of their wealth and not be cut back on their pensions. That would be unnecessary, unjust and actually insane, as we will prove. Therefore, the clear question to the government: what are you going to do to ensure that the difference with the workers does not increase in the coming years, what are you going to do to repair the purchasing power of pensioners? For it is absurd that pension funds should not be paid on the basis of their long-term return, but on the basis of an artificially low accounting rate of 1%, whereas it should be about actual expenditure and income rather than a strange accounting table. The numbers don't lie. The largest fund, the ABP, had a capital of 216,000 million euros in 2007; in 2017 it was 409,000 million euros and now it is 419,000 million euros. The Health and Well-being Pension Fund doubled well, from 88,000 million euros to 197,000 million euros, and the Construction Fund went down two and a half times, from 26,400 million euros to 63,300 million euros. The metal funds known as weaker brothers doubled about. Total pension assets went from EUR 576,000 million in 2008 to EUR 1,328,000 million in 2017. In all these funds we see an average annual return of over 4% to 8% over ten years. There is no dog in the Netherlands who still understands why these antisocial rules are being applied. The director of the Bouwfonds, David van As, former head of department at De Nederlandsche Bank, openly pleads for fewer rules, because all these rules are too costly and the justified indexation is in the way. The fact that things can be different proves our neighbour Belgium. It takes into account the real facts and the actual return and the expected return on investment. This is based on an interest rate of 3.5% and can be indexed there. There, a coverage rate of 110% may be fully indexed. But in the Netherlands, discounts threaten in the winter of 2019. We therefore urge the government to look again urgently at the 50PLUS initiative proposal tabled by our Dutch MP, Mr Van Rooijen, in order to avoid unnecessary pension reductions due to a temporary 2% bottom interest rate. It is an extremely moderate and fair proposal. One swallow doesn't make a summer yet, we know, but one Koolmies will soon make a harsh winter for the elderly. That is why the question is: is the government prepared to take a serious look at the Belgian model? The downward trend on the stock exchanges has a significant impact on the calculation method used. According to pension fund Aon at the end of last week, the month of October showed a decrease of as much as 3% in the current coverage rate. This government lacks decisiveness and interest in the elderly. Minister Koolmees pretends to be nesting on a new pension system, but in fact he's just sitting still and lame. He just lets Dutch pension funds with their capital leave for much more attractive Belgium. This neighbouring country had a regulatory framework whereby at the end of 2017 the average coverage rate of pension funds was 124%. The consequences will not be met. Large Dutch pension funds of multinationals, such as ExxonMobil, are moving away with 2.6 billion euros, Johnson & Johnson, Aon, Euroclear and so on. Funds left the Netherlands saw their coverage increase by 11% after the move to Belgium. It's ostrich politics not to want to see this. The Belgian pension sector is growing enormously after value transfers from the Netherlands. According to the Belgian regulator FSMA, the assets of cross-border funds doubled in 2016; in 2017 this growth continued with the Netherlands as main sponsor. Can the government give us an overview of all pension funds that have left for Belgium and indicate how much billion this is? And why do we want to offer EUR 2 billion dividend tax with the falsely promised idea of keeping multinationals here, but let the government take billions of pension capital across the border without actually sticking a finger? Mr. Chairman. A separate point is the holiday allowance for AOW'ers. Although it is laid down by law that the holiday allowance should be at least 8% in the Netherlands, it was 6.6% of the annual income for AOW'ers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u127	Mrs. Sent, you're going to have one interruption, given the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u128	Mr Nagel rightly calls for attention to be paid to problems of indexing, coverage and so on, but as far as I am concerned these are symptoms and there must be an analysis of the underlying problems. This analysis is that we are dealing with a double ageing population, namely more elderly people who are also getting older, and a double hazing, namely fewer young people and fewer young people who end up in the pension system. That is why I tabled the proposal to make participation in the pension system compulsory. I would very much like to hear Mr Nagel's views on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u129	We are very much in favour of the current pension system with collective responsibility. I just called you numbers to tell you what the actual returns are. The director of the Bouwfonds says: let's start indexing; we can do this for decades without problems, given our return. It's just those weird rules that stop that. Look at Belgium, where there's no problem. I'd like to go over the numbers later. We're going to have a long dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u130	It's just a short dinner break. Anyway, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u131	The holiday money this year was only 6.3%. A single AOW'er got €15 less holiday money this year and AOW'ers with a partner €22 less. That unjustified reduction was due to a complex tax development the Empire benefited from. A total of 3 million people were affected by this. Not a real policy issue, but, as the chief editor of the Geldgids, Reinout van der Heijden, wrote in the Volkskrant, a consequence of the progressive government machine, insensitive to the consequences and too complex to be corrected by the House of Representatives. A pure mechanical act he calls a blunder. In the long term, the problem will be solved by switching to less tax discs. But that means that next May the AOW'ers will get less holiday money again, because the holiday money will be calculated in the old way over the months of May until December 2018. 50PLUS asks the government to undo this policy unintended pickpocketing and to ensure that the AOW's, who do not already receive 8% holiday money, will not be penalised but will be compensated next May. We hope that the government will make a commitment on this point. Otherwise we will have to table a motion on this. Finally, another point. A recent study by Kantar/NIPO shows that 70% of the 70-plussers avoid public transport as much as possible. ProRail is campaigning for safer travel. One point remains neglected: the overcrowded trains and the situation that young people, who are completely seized by their electronic devices, do not give up their seats to elderly people who are forced to have entire journeys. Couldn't a little awareness even be promoted at this point? We are happy to await the answer of our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u132	Thank you, Mr. Nagel. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u133	Mr. Chairman. The principles of the OSF, which I have wanted to represent here in recent years, are briefly summarised: human scale, well-being over prosperity, a mutually supportive Europe, the right of majorities and minorities all over the world to be and remain themselves. My reflections today are based on the same principles. Mr. Chairman. We have a rich country with a good locational climate and a thriving economy. But not everyone benefits the same. Wages do not rise hard enough, pensions remain behind, houses are too few and they become too expensive. We do have shrinking areas, but especially cities that burst out of their joints. The roads are clogged. We don't have enough people to do all the work. The companies have job vacancies, care and education much more. And in the meantime, the government is doing its best to improve the locational climate. The dividend tax does not need to be abolished anymore, but instead the tax on profits must be substantially reduced. It stimulates SMEs to a limited extent, but to a much greater extent it benefits large companies and will indeed improve the business environment, say foreign companies. We're not the only ones who want to be. So with all the other countries that want exactly the same thing, it continues to be a case of countering each other in tax cuts. Why is that? Doesn't a more attractive locational environment mean even more demand for workers who aren't there, attracting workers from outside and even more demand for houses that aren't there? There is a category of foreigners that we should receive with more love than we often do in practice: refugees who need a safe place. But do we have to pursue policies that will attract others? Are we really helping ourselves now that we are finally trying to get rid of our reputation as a tax haven, if we want to attract companies that often manage to pay very little tax? Moreover, do we not have a large surplus on the balance of payments, so much so that America is angry about it? Shouldn't we simply reduce the tax on profits extra, spend money on useful things or not spend it, and thus improve the sustainability balance and reduce public debt? Do we serve the human size or the large scale? And is this ever-increasing competition on tariffs the way to be mutually supportive in Europe, to achieve an optimum jointly, or are we pulling each other down at the expense of our people who pay the price? Perhaps the government would like to address the disadvantages of always wanting to become more attractive at the expense of others. Meanwhile, the world around us is getting more and more restless. In that world it is therefore more important to pay attention to defending one's own interests than always to take our values into account. That's not bad. We do not need to sell our democracy to others, nor do we need to impose our ethical standards. But where crooks are in power, clarity is necessary. The case of Saudi Arabia is clear. It was because of the war in Yemen. And where there is injustice, that can also be said clearly. We are doing a lot for good relations with China, and there may be a lot of money to be made there, with all the risks involved. But in addition to the treatment of dissidents, who sometimes want to side-examine a minister, it is also clear that China is making every effort to equalize Tibetan culture, destroy monasteries and imprison cultural carriers. And it is also becoming clear that in Eastern Turkestan, the Chinese province of Sinkiang, camps have been set up where a significant part of the Uighur Muslim population is now interned. That China is not a democracy, we do not need to interfere. The fact that it takes out its minorities hard-handed continues. You can also commit cultural genocide. There are great interests but also good reasons to show the Chinese Prime Minister, when he is here, not only kindness, but also clarity. In addition to individual cases of human rights violations, does the government also wish to raise the issue of the violation of the collective rights of minorities in contacts with Chinese officials? We are talking about the right to self-identity. Identity is also starting to play a bigger role with us, and that is good as long as it means that we want to remain ourselves in an open society, as a Dutchman, as a Limburger, as a Frisian. In the Balkans, identity seems almost all-encompassing and identities, ethnicities, are very easily in a tense relationship with each other, if they are not separated by a wisely drawn state border. Serbia and Kosovo seem to be prepared to adjust their borders to solve problems on both sides. I am surprised that in Western Europe this solution encounters resistance and that border change is seen as a danger rather than a solution. Do we not constantly stress the importance of our nation-states in Western Europe? These are countries where state and nation largely agree and where rights can be guaranteed to limited minorities. Does the Dutch Government have a position in this case, particularly as regards the position of the large and fairly homogeneous Serbian population in northern Kosovo? Finally, Mr President, return to our own country. There are great challenges, because we want to keep our country above water for as long as possible, and we want it to be beautiful again. It is becoming increasingly clear that our agriculture is the crucial factor for this. At the meeting where the States of Zeeland and Friesland were received here in the Chamber, it was noted that we should be grateful for the tremendous achievement that farmers have achieved in converting government policy into the enormous production that we now have, but also that we must now make clear what a tremendous achievement must be achieved in a conversion to agricultural production that also allows nature to flourish. That is a different agriculture from the present one. But in order to achieve that huge achievement, it is necessary for the government to steer with measures. Laisser-faire has led to the phosphate problem and to crisis legislation. We must now give an active direction so that it is clear what is expected of Dutch farmers: not an agriculture that exports as much as possible, but an agriculture that contributes to the health of our own country and soil as much as possible. Trusting good intentions or agreements seems nice, but guarantees less success than government measures. Station money on plastic bottles and cans helps more than with appointments to try a lot to recycle. Without conversion obligations, it does not seem possible to reduce the use of Groningen natural gas. And, in general, if the polluter has to pay then taxation is the most obvious option to make that payment. Mr Koffeman has just said a few very clear things about this. No freedom, happiness, but a steering government is needed at this time with its big problems. Is that how the government wants to rule, or does that scare them back when things get tough?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u134	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. Is there anyone else who would like to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the dinner break meeting until 7:45. I would like to ask those who are going to have dinner down in the Noenzaal to give priority, if possible, to the spokesmen, because at a quarter to seven we will continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u135	May I be the first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-30-eerstekamer-5.u136	And maybe to the Prime Minister, too. Maybe, uh, just maybe.
