ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u1	We are now going to the 30-member debate on hazing rituals in the armed forces. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Defence in trade-K. I give the floor to Mrs Ploumen as the first speaker and applicant for this debate. Mrs Ploumen speaks on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. People who are willing to give their lives for our safety and whose safety is entrusted to us, the Dutch government, are exposed to bullying, abuse, sexual violence, rape, and that under the heading of hazing. I and many, if not all here, find this unacceptable. We must note that after many incidents there is a clear pattern, a structural problem. In recent decades, political will and change plans have not proved sufficient to put an end to these reprehensible practices in which people are damaged for life. The Giebels Committee's interim report is very hard. The committee says, among other things, that no distinction should be made between hazing and initiation rituals. At the same time, they indicate that reports of hazing are still coming in. They also indicate that reports are not adequately investigated and that detectors are "branded" by their own organisation, just in my words. You're getting drunk wild and there's an unstable career history. You'll get a cross behind your name: "there's been a fuss with it." None of this is new and therefore the next question to the Secretary of State. Is it prepared to include an explicit ban on hazing with immediate effect in the code of conduct? Does it now also see that only an external hotline with internal perseverance power can provide security to detectors? Is it prepared to compensate the victims of Schaarsbergen and to restore their honour? Is it prepared to order that those parts of the investigation into the events in Schaarsbergen which, according to the Goebels Committee, have not been adequately investigated should be investigated? Is she prepared to report every year to the House of Representatives on reported incidents and their follow-up and on the progress of what it advocates in the plan of approach she presented yesterday? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. The immediate reason for this debate is the experience of the Minister and the Secretary of State in the middle of December in the barracks in Schaarsbergen, the barracks where three boys have previously been bullied, abused, assaulted and raped: totally, totally unacceptable, as Mr Ploumen said, but also the Secretary of State and the Minister himself on several occasions. But apparently they have not yet understood in Schaarsbergen that the culture at the barracks should not be able and changed. Secretary of State Visser asked at the end of last year about the tiger test that was planned that night. What we learned from the newspaper is that that is an indrinking procedure where newcomers have to bring a mug in which a raw egg and spirits are made. They're gonna have to tap it back. Then they have to answer questions and get drunk. Then you must have passed. Fortunately, the Secretary of State had put a stop to this hazing ritual that day. But how is it possible that this still seems to have happened after that? That is also my question to the Secretary of State. Why is there a lack of enforcement of the ban on hazing, as the Secretary of State has said several times? In my view, the confusion is also in the definition and thus the recognition or denial of the problem: hazing is forbidden, but initiation is not. Does the Secretary of State share the view that by allowing initiation rites, unwilling or hard-hungry soldiers it offers the opportunity to cheat and thus preserve this culture? Is the Secretary of State prepared to prohibit this too? What about the leaders responsible for the incidents in Schaarsbergen? Are all of them now at least inactive? Yesterday, the Giebels Committee came forward with an interim report on the abuses and the promotion and settlement of notifications. The criticism is not gentle; it is huge. We will come back to it in detail later, but we would like to stress here that the main problem is the disadvantage of reporting people. After reporting, you'll be treated like a traitor, we can read. That shows how great this repression and culture of fear is, how great that oppression is. So my question is also: what is the Secretary of State going to do and what has she done in recent months? How does it intend to change this persistent culture in the coming year? I also want to know what the instructions are on those parts of which the Gibbles Committee says: it hinders people to report. Are there any instructions to adjust them immediately? After all, a lot of reports have been received on those parts. I'll leave it at that for now, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you. Mr. Bosman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u6	On a point of order, Mr President. There are a number of discussions about the Giebels report and questions are being asked about it to the Minister, but I do not think that is on the agenda today. I'd like to have that reported. We need to be careful about that. We are certainly going to deal with the Giebels report, but I think it will be on April 26th.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u7	I would have expected this from Mr Bosman, because he constantly wants to postpone all reports and talks about all abuses. At least that feeling creeps me out when I see Mr Bosman operating in the House of Representatives. We have freedom of speech, let me remind you. And two: the subject we are discussing here is directly related to the Gibels report. And I don't know about you, but I wish this had already been adapted and forbidden. That is what we are talking about today. It is my right and the right of Mrs Ploumen and others to raise a number of important points in that report, rather than waiting another month.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mrs Karabulut's remarks are totally inappropriate. The VVD also finds this behavior very reprehensible. Only the responsibility we have in parliamentary status is that we talk about matters that are on the agenda, in full responsibility. It was just a point of order. I didn't expect any response from Mrs Karabulut, but she's giving it to me anyway. I think that's inappropriate. A reproach to the VVD in this way is really an unjustified reproach, because we also think that the reprehensible behavior that absolutely must be crushed. I'm sure you'll hear the same thing in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u9	That is very good to hear, but I would like to point out to Mr Bosman that, of course, we are going to have more debates and that he himself must acknowledge that what we are discussing here today has everything to do with Giebels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u10	Very briefly, in response to what has just been said. It is true that the report is not explicitly on the agenda. I think it's very good that we talk about it later. The fact is that many of the events reported by the victims of Schaarsbergen are confirmed in that report. Of course, the shocking part of it is that there are no new facts. That is why I think it is important to refer to that interim report in this debate too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you. Then you made your point, too. I shall now go to Mrs Belhaj on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr. Chairman. D66 has been very clear on the unacceptable and nauseating initiation and hazing rituals. Rape, humiliation, abuse, alcohol and drug abuse are just a hold of absolutely unacceptable behaviour, which must be brought to an end. Whether it's hazing or initiation rituals, let me put one thing first. What kind of name is given to the animal, it is without prejudice that it is nauseating what has happened to the military in question. Mr. Chairman. As long as there is no clear Defence-wide regulation and implementation is not secured, there will be no initiation and hazing rituals for D66 until then. It is the duty of the Defense Department not only to take the social security of its personnel seriously, but also to guarantee them. It's my duty from the Chamber to check that. Therefore, the following questions. What is the Secretary of State going to do to break the culture of assimilation and fear, which is the breeding ground for these horrible events? How is the Minister going to ensure that abuses like these do not occur in the future? An inclusive Defence Organisation where all employees feel involved is crucial for the success of Defence. Staff should be valued and respected for what they contribute to the organisation and not the extent to which they meet a stereotype. Mr. Chairman. There must never be room for a culture of humiliation and abuse of dominant positions. The seriousness and regularity of complaints show that there appears to be insufficient transparency, responsibility and visibility in the management framework. They do not even succeed in putting an end to these atrocities. Can the Secretary of State indicate and share the exact meaning of the commanding officer's instruction regarding initiation rites? Can the Secretary of State make it clear what the concrete consequences are for the commanders when there are unacceptable initiation and hazing rituals? What are the consequences? Mr. Chairman. The government has a duty to inform the Chamber. After all, that way the Chamber can carry out its work and control the government properly. Can the Secretary of State explain why yesterday, on Wednesday afternoon 28 March, she only sent the interim report of the Giebels Committee to the Chamber, while the Committee already offered it the interim report on 16 March? It can be read that the Giebels Committee believes that it would be good to make its report public as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. In its letter of 22 December, the Secretary of State stated that, in addition to the Giebels Committee, additional internal actions were launched. The results of this internal inventory would be expected at the beginning of this year. Are these results available yet? If so, why wasn't this shared with the Chamber? If not, will the Secretary of State share the results with the Chamber? Finally, Mr President. The reason for the fact that we are having this mid-term important debate on hazing and initiation rituals is that the Giebels Committee has actually been set up in response to three brave boys who have suffered a lot, personally but also to the people in their surroundings, who have raised this issue. It is entirely right to talk explicitly today about hazing and at a later stage about broad social security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you, Mrs Belhaj. I shall now go to Mrs Bruins Slot on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mr. Chairman. Last year, serious abuses came to light at the air-mobile brigade in Schaarsbergen. Three soldiers have been the victims of this and they've probably been signed for life. The fuss was great, and rightly so, inside and outside of Defense, here in the Lower House and with the then newly appointed Secretary of State and Minister as well. The Secretary of State strongly distanced himself from these excesses and that's good. She set up an external Giebels committee, which conducts, among other things, a factual investigation into the way in which the notification and the detectors were handled in Schaarsbergen. Yesterday afternoon we received the mid-term report from the Giebels Committee. Her conclusions are harsh. The plan of approach A safe defence organisation has also been sent to the House of Representatives, in which the directors also come up with measures. On 26 April, the House of Representatives will discuss these reports and recommendations in detail. This requires careful preparation, as the huge amount of measures to be taken that are announced raises questions. It must be clear what the path is to that end and when you want to achieve it. We're gonna need a little more time to see how that works. I would like to make two points. First of all, we got the Defense Note on Monday. The staff, a socially safe working environment and the safety of the staff are highlighted in that note. Then it is about the importance of sports and recreation facilities, better internet and Wi-Fi connections, but also just good alloy, which is not always in order now. These are dissatisfiers that can lead to boredom, but they can never be an excuse for unacceptable behavior that does not belong in the armed forces. It is good that something is finally going to be done about this. Mr. Chairman. Then the point of hazing. Harnessings are forbidden in the armed forces. That's good, too. I also explicitly say functional initiation rituals are not. They must fulfil a useful function. For example, it is about promoting the esprit de corps, but also, for example, showing the connection with the unity. It is important to really speak here of functional initiation rituals and not of non-functional initiation rituals, because those are actually just hazings. The Secretary of State is investigating the regulations to ensure proper implementation. The CDA is curious about the results of this inventory. That was about the code of conduct and the designation. When does the Secretary of State expect the results of this investigation? Can she inform the House of Representatives about this? I think it would be useful to do so for the debate on 26 April, because we will continue to talk about the other measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u15	I have a question about the concept of initiation rituals. It listens closely to what is fun and what is effective. Mr Dalenberg has done some research on this. What do you think is admissible in an initiation ritual?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u16	For that, you must rely on the CDS designation A-1601 that is there. That's the starting point. That is also something that needs to be tested. What I liked about the debate we had last time, at the end of last year, is that the Secretary of State made it clear that she is going to see whether or not something should be changed in the code of conduct and whether or not the designation actually meets the criteria. In my view, these were two important aspects to ensure that it is properly secured. That's why I want to know from the Secretary of State how far she is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u17	It is important in the debate to become very concrete. We're talking about clues. An average soldier who looks and thinks: if that initiation ritual were to happen to me, should I allow myself to drink litres of alcohol, even though I don't drink alcohol, or be beaten or humiliated? Maybe you can be a little more concrete, because clues are common. My second point... is that I have lost my question. It happens in life.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u18	You can come back later. Mrs. Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u19	You're flexible today. I will remember that for the rest of the debate. I told you in my input, it has to be functional. Functionally means that it should contribute, for example, to the esprit de corps or the connection with the unit. That's why the Department of Defense has established a lead. That indication must be the guideline. That's what you have to base it on. There's got to be surveillance. There's got to be permission. Then it is a functional initiation ritual.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u20	Do you remember?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u21	I remember. I apologize. Thanks for the answer. I don't think it's very concrete yet. People want to know: do you have to drink alcohol or not? The clue is general: you must not hurt anyone, you must not do racist things or you must not hit them. To what extent can this humiliation ultimately be expressed? But what amazes me so much is this. We're not talking about a fraternity here. We're not talking about a free choice people make to say: I like to join something and then have to do all kinds of crazy things and I accept that or not. This is a government organisation, a professional defence organisation, where people are consistently trained to be tough to carry out difficult tasks. Then what the hell is the function of an initiation ritual? You're just a professional soldier, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u22	That Mrs Belhaj thinks it is possible that abuse and the calling out of people can be an initiation ritual at all; the idea alone! Of course you can't. It can't be! For example, an initiation ritual is to know what the history of your unit is, that they fought in Waterloo, that they did insurgency in Spain, that they were in Afghanistan and that you know, for example, the song that belongs to the regiment. That is functional, but the fact that Mrs Belhaj wants to consider at all that something like insulting, discrimination and mistreatment could be a functional initiation ritual; of course that cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u23	Functional or not, it happens. It even happened almost literally under the eyes of the Secretary of State and the Minister when they made a work visit to Schaarsbergen. That evening, there would be "a" ritual, let me put it neutrally, in which alcohol would be included. As Mrs Karabulut said, that is the direct reason for this debate. We hear reports of even worse excesses, which, of course, is also part of it. Mrs Bruins Slot is right that we are discussing it extensively on 26 April. That's good, too. But I've been in this room full-time since October 27th. Since then we have talked about it a number of times, but there have also been a number of incidents. I am increasingly uncomfortable because in early November I called for an end to these hazings and for an explicit ban on them, and we are not going to talk about this again until 26 April. I don't think we disagree at all about the unwelcomeness. That is clear, but wouldn't Mrs Bruins Slot now also feel like calling on the Secretary of State to immediately include an explicit ban on hazing in that code of conduct, as they simply continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u24	It is good that Mrs Ploumen says that we both believe that hazing is prohibited. I don't think there's any difference of opinion on that here in the Chamber. We had that debate back then. Then the Secretary of State said: I really want to see whether it is sufficiently clear in that code of conduct that hazing is explicitly prohibited. Then I chose to let the Secretary of State do her job properly first by asking it out in the organisation and seeing if there is another way to do it. That is why I have just asked the Secretary of State what has come out of this inventory and what follow-up measures it is going to take. I think it's a good idea for the Secretary of State to answer that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u25	Mrs Bruins Slot is right: we all find it reprehensible. But we're not saying that for the first time. There is my concern, also towards the Secretary of State. I didn't ask her to ban it now for nothing, because we've talked about it four times. Asking out and inventorying doesn't really mean much to those men and women who are now victims of hazing. So I'm gonna make another call. May I put it this way? I would ask Mrs Bruins Slot to look with me later to see if we can ask the Secretary of State to ban it immediately and to include it in that code of conduct.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u26	It is already forbidden, but the question is also whether the Secretary of State has only investigated things recently. Because I also assume that from the Secretary of State and the Minister, but also the commanders, it is clearly stated once again in the organisation: boys, this cannot and cannot be done. Mrs Karabulut was also the one who asked a number of questions about what has happened in recent times and how it has been dealt with. I thought that was very relevant questions. I am also curious to hear the answers of the Secretary of State on that point. For it may not, it cannot, it may only be at the time when it is a functional.I emphasize the word functional.. initiation ritual, which also follows on the basis of the clue that is there, with supervision and permission of the commander.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u27	For me, then, the question remains open as to what the CDA is proposing in the meantime. When we look at Giebels' interim report, it says literally: there seems to be an organizational culture in which non-functional hazing practices or initiation rituals are common practice. For you are right: I do not understand, because strictly formal hazing is forbidden, but the initiation rituals are not. We know that after the visit of the Secretary of State, we will hear from the Secretary of State whether she can confirm this, but we have just learned from reliable sources that after she had banned the hazing practices in Schaarsbergen, this has happened again. What should we do in the meantime? Should we allow this situation to continue for months, in which people feel intimidated and humiliated? Or do we say: not right now, we're not going to do that now, we're going to look for alternatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u28	I think the Secretary of State and the Minister have both been clear: it is not now, it is not now, it is simply not. Harnessing is prohibited in the armed forces, and this must be monitored. It is important to ensure that, if they are at risk of taking place, the commanders who are going to take action on this issue too. That is why I think Mrs Karabulut's question is also relevant: have there been incidents lately and if so, how has it been handled? Quite right, because it's not allowed and it can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u29	Only: does that also apply to the initiation rituals?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u30	It is a good thing that this distinction is called for, Mr President, because there should be no confusion about it. Harnessings are forbidden. The regulations at Defense state that functional initiation rituals are allowed. But functionally, it also serves a purpose. And a purpose can never serve to slander, intimidate, abuse or anything. One goal is that you let someone learn something about the history of the unit he sits with, about the customs attached to it. That's what that clue is about, and that's what needs to be kept to. I also think it is important that this happens. The Secretary of State and the Minister are working hard on that. The Goebels Committee proposes appropriate measures for this purpose. The Minister also does so in the report on internal security, but we will discuss this more extensively on 26 April.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u31	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u32	Finally. In this case, the initiation ritual is nothing but a hazing ritual. For what you say, namely learning about history and group bonding, we do not need to maintain any kind of studentikoze practices. For this we should also ban initiation rituals, because it is in danger of becoming a game of words, at this point in time, and ensure that this general practice and history simply return to training. Otherwise, that tough man's behavior, which eventually results, in accordance with the investigations and the examples we know, in humiliation and intimidation...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u33	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u34	... continue to be part of the culture. Mrs. Bruins Slot shouldn't want that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u35	I understand Mrs Karabulut's question about clarity. That is why it is good that on page 19 of Mrs Karabulut's document, the Gibels Committee speaks of non-functional initiation rituals and hazings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u36	Mr. Chairman. I think we are going to get far in this debate. Because I think it's a nice explanation: knowledge of history and where you're going. That is actually like in all normal companies, where there is an introduction program: welcome to the company, so and so it works, perhaps followed by a nice lecture on the company's history. However, may I conclude that, in your opinion, obligations relating to alcohol or to doing business after working time do not constitute part of an initiation ritual?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u37	This is based on the designation drawn up by the Commander of the Armed Forces. If anything happens on orders from the commander, it's always duty time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u38	So imagine that when a commander comes to an introduction that is performed somewhere abroad, he really likes the fact that there is a lot to drink with each other at first and that there are all kinds of threats being made to the point that you have to do crazy things. I ask you how you feel about that. 'Cause I don't agree. But I get messages all the time. I find that annoying, because it's about boys and girls who are like dead and say, "Dear Madame of politics, you're all saying you can't, but this is what I'm hearing. That is why I am so specific to you, because you say: I think the nice elements should be possible. I therefore think it is important that you explicitly say that alcohol, for example, should not play a role in this, that it is fairly random when a commander finds something funny, and that a standard should be set about what is and is not funny and acceptable within a professional organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u39	As I indicated, it must be functional. If you go on practice and have a shooting series, for example, you don't drink alcohol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u41	That seems to me to be the starting point. There must also be a playbook for initiation rituals. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to finish with a message. It is also important that we are proud of those men and women of the Defense Department. We all share that here. We are talking all the time about what is not going well in some parts of the organisation, but a total of 56,000 people, civilians and military work at the Department of Defense. They stand ready 24/7 for our safety, with passion, commitment, loyalty and mutual companionship. Sometimes things go wrong, horribly wrong. Then it is also important to act, to take action and to prevent it from happening again. That's what we're talking about here. But it's also good to say that there's a lot going on in that organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u42	Very briefly, Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u43	I don't think there's any Defense spokesperson who's not incredibly proud of what those men and women are doing. I see and I know you mean well, I say through the chairman. But you're suggesting that we're always forced to name that when we discuss things that don't go so well. It's obvious. This whole House of Representatives is proud of what the military are doing. We're talking about excesses now. If we have to name every time they do it fantastic, it seems like we're relativizing what's happening. That is not your intention, but that is why I wanted to make that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u44	Good. Then you made your comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u45	It might be good to give a short response to that. I hear from many people from the Defence Organization that they do not hear enough about their work being appreciated. That is why I would point out that we all feel that way. It's okay to keep saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u46	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, this is an important subject to discuss. It is also right that we should discuss it today. It is also right that we want to express our concerns. Because what happened is totally inappropriate. Sexual violence, physical violence and intimidation are reprehensible behavior. Then we can have the discussion about whether it's degreening, an introduction week, an introduction or an initiation ritual, but ultimately it's about behavior. That's reprehensible behavior, which we all think shouldn't happen. But that does mean that you have to come up with solutions. I will be very honest: we are going to discuss these solutions seriously. The Minister and the Secretary of State have given a good impetus to this. As Mr Bruins Slot said, we need to take a serious look at the effects of this and whether the result is actually achieved, in order to ensure that we get this kind of excess because it is about excesses from this organisation. We must put people in their power to act, whether they are commanders, or the soldier who stands up for his buddy and can say in all honesty: up to here and no further. Because that is at the heart of the matter. Every employee of the Defense Department, all those 56,000 people we all respect in this Chamber, must be able to say, "Wait a minute, I'm standing up for that colleague; I'm standing up for that buddy who's in trouble for a while." Only then will you have a military force you say to, and you can say with confidence: this is a well formed group. And there could be all kinds of things there. Here all rituals and hazings are poured into one heap, saying it's all wrong. I'm gonna name another one anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u48	Before you proceed, Mrs Ploumen, who has been standing there for a while, has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u49	You're right. I heard Mr Bosman, like all of us, express his concerns. He says we need to discuss this carefully. Everyone will agree with that, but the reason for asking for this debate was that, after we discussed it a few times in this Chamber, and with this State Secretary, there were still reports of hazing, even on the day when the Minister and the Secretary of State were visiting. It is not the first time that this has been discussed; Mr Bosman knows the investigations from 2006 and 2011. Now I heard Mr Bosman and I would like to ask him how he is looking at this: on 16 February this year there was a family day at the 11th Air Mobile Brigade in Schaarsbergen and a captain who spoke there informed those present that there had been a hazing two days earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u50	But now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u51	The captain said: apart from what the political leadership does or does not like, we simply do what we always do. I ask Mr Bosman whether that is not a reason enough to want to take action now, because it will continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u52	The measures are there, as Mr Bruins Slot said. I think there is a CDS indication 1601, which seriously sets a framework for that. When people break that framework, the organization must intervene. It is therefore much more important that this organisation should implement what it has agreed. I think that's much more important. In fact, there's got to be someone in the area, whether that's the major, the lieutenant, the sergeant or the soldier who says, "Hey, Captain, wait a minute; that's not how it works." It's only when you set up the organization that way that it works. When we in the Chamber say that there is all kinds of legislation and that we are making even more legislation because they do not comply with the legislation, cultural change is not very strong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u53	Will Mr Bosman and I then together ask the Secretary of State what happened after that captain said so on 16 February during that family day? Because that really is a violation of the rules that are already in place, if I have listened to Mr Bosman correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u54	Yes, that question could be asked. The only question is whether that is known. Then that means: who has actually taken action? Because we must also realise that there are many different ways of taking action within the organisation. It is therefore possible that this Secretary of State does not know this because action has been taken. We're not gonna know everything here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u55	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u56	The point is also noted by the Giebels Committee that people find it difficult to report because they are branded as "bad." Of course, that makes it a bit more complicated, but I am pleased that Mr Bosman, like me, would like to know how this incident has been followed up. It is understandable if the Secretary of State is not able to report on this in a minute, but she may be able to do so in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u57	That which has happened in Schaarsbergen years ago but also last year and we are all going to hear that, even this year, takes place under the heading of 'hazing'. Is Mr Bosman saying that this is forbidden and that this has been a violation and saying that this is something other than the initiation ritual and the rituals as they are allowed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u58	Yeah, there are definitely differences. There are certainly differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u59	The second question is what measures should be taken now to stop these practices, because I note that in recent years, even after a great deal of fuss, even after debates in the Chamber and even after a ban by the Secretary of State, this has not happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u60	I find this interesting. I think Mrs Karabulut thinks everyone should be fired from the DOD, because so many rules need to be made that there are already. What is important is that people are kept to the rules that exist and that commanders seize that moment to say that something is going wrong and that they do not want to. That is why I welcome the new Defence Note, which explicitly states that commanders will be given more and more responsibility. I told you, this is not just about the commander, but also about the colleague, the soldier, the sergeant, the lieutenant, the captain, the major, the general. Everyone must be able to say: wait a minute, something goes wrong here, this cannot be done. Mrs Karabulut says: do more legislation, because then it gets better. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u61	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u62	Mr Bosman, as I see it, is going crazy. I didn't say everybody should get fired. I told you, according to your own reasoning, that rules are being violated, that even in spite of warnings from the Secretary of State, people continue to practice hazing. My question to Mr Bosman was: what should be done there? And I have heard Mr Bosman say that I would very much like to receive confirmation from him that appropriate sanctions and measures must therefore be imposed for those who have been in violation. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u63	It's kind of interesting. Can Mrs Karabulut guarantee that nothing will happen at Oxfam Novib? Of course, it's very difficult. And that's what you have to crush, because it's terrible what's happening. You're gonna have to be tough on that. That has to be done, and that is what I'm saying. You're gonna have to be tough on breaking the law. We made a deal about that. I'm even willing to say, "You should give that to the State's Attorney's Office." I don't have a problem with that. But that's the Commander's role. It shows what the heaviness of the case is. We have rules for that. Those rules are just in the CDS designation. And if you break rules, whether you're speeding or breaking another rule, there's gonna be a penalty. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u64	I suggest you move on. No, Mrs. Karabulut, not anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u65	Let me give you an example, because you wanted it to be concrete. If you go solo in your flight training, you'll be targeted in the water. Then you'll be baptized, then you'll be jonasted by your colleagues in the water. I thought it was a moment of honor, and a lot of colleagues with me. And when you start your hunting training in a Shepherd, the best moment is painting the solo tank. 'Cause that's the place, when you go solo, where you get targeted. That's a moment of honor, of pride. You'll be part of the group of solo pilots. Whether you're flying in a T-37 or in a PC-7 or T-38. That's a good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u66	Don't look at Mrs. Belhaj! Let's get this over with. You have a few seconds and I will give Mrs Belhaj the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u67	Mr President, I will conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u68	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u69	This is a serious subject. Let me repeat once more: behavior that is cross-border must be dealt with hard. There are rules for that, and they must be enforced. I am pleased that commanders are increasingly placed in a position to maintain. But again, it's not just the commander. I also mention his colleagues, soldier, sergeant, lieutenant or general, and participation and union. Everyone in that area plays a role in making this beautiful organization stronger, better and more beautiful for everyone working in the armed forces. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u70	Whether Mr. Bosman would like to take a look at me and, more importantly, listen. Mr Bosman just referred to Oxfam Novib. Actually, I thought that was interesting. I remember that the VVD group was very much on top of that, even talking about "deaf pot" and "the bottom stone should be above." I notice that when an example is mentioned of incidents that politicians get into, you do not say: "It is a cover-up. It's a disgrace. Dear Secretary of State, I want a letter tomorrow stating how it is, because this simply cannot be done." I notice in my mind that this is not true somewhere, but perhaps you can explain why the VVD's image in the field of development cooperation is very harsh and says: oh, it's all part of it. The second is about swimming or splashing. That is a good example in itself. It's about physical integrity. Perhaps we can agree that initiation rituals should not in any way affect physical integrity, either with physical things or with spiritual elements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u71	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u72	The question is whether Mr Bosman would like us to keep our hands and feet off military forces, whether they are splashing or not, so that we are setting some sort of standard, so that it is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u73	First of all: the VVD is serious in all these cases. Let's make that clear in advance. The VVD is serious. Within the armed forces, we have a system. That system, what checks-and-balances are there? We missed Oxfam Novib a little bit. Well, that's crucial. That's why we have rules. They need to be maintained. Then you can say, "I want more rules." But it's about culture and maintaining it, and putting the commander in position. But again, it's about all the people in the organization. Mrs Belhaj wants to come up with a generic measure. That would be the end of the solo tank. I'd be very sorry to hear that. So I'd be against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u74	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. After the suspension, I'll give the Secretary of State the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u75	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the questions asked, it's good to start with the reason why we're here. I have heard a number of speakers talk about what we share with each other. That's that we're proud of Defence, that there are people that we can be proud of, that Defense brings security all over the world, and that also means that it has to be safe within Defense. There is therefore no room for bullying, for humiliation, for intimidation or for any behaviour that we do not consider normal with each other. Whether it happens when you're at the KMA in your introduction time, when you're at the Schaarsbergenkazerne, when you're working on Volkel Air Base or when you're working daily at Schiphol Plaza with all your colleagues: if you feel intimidated, that there's bullying or that there's dishonorable behavior, you have to report it and then there's a need to intervene. That is the starting point that I have heard all Members of Parliament mention here as well and that we share. Let's start with that, too. That is and will remain the starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u77	Mrs. Karabulut... yes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u78	No, I thought I heard Mr. Bosman say something behind me...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u79	I heard something, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u80	...but that doesn't turn out to be the case. I'm glad the Secretary of State is starting this. She's repeated it before. In that sense, I have every confidence in it, but the practice is unbearable. The Giebels report says that there is great reluctance on the part of people to report, because it has or may have major consequences for them personally. My question to the Secretary of State is what has happened to that in recent months. What is the Secretary of State going to do to take away this fear from people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u81	It is right that Mrs Karabulut should ask this question about the Giebel report. I have also deliberately asked for an interim report, because I think it is important that we get recommendations as soon as possible and concrete handles to move forward. I was shocked by this point in the report. I thought: how can it be that in an organization I am proud of and in which I speak daily people who are proud of their work, work or have worked that say they dare not report things because they are afraid that it will harm their career? It's not supposed to be. There's supposed to be room for that. I don't know the contents of the reports. I don't know what period it is either. Mrs Giebels has included in her report that she will develop this further in the coming period. Maybe now I can make a little bridge to the pieces that were sent yesterday. I didn't ask for that interim report for nothing. I think it is important for us to be able to take steps. Unfortunately, I have had to say with the Minister that security within the Defense Department needs to be improved. This is not only about abuse or humiliation, but also about the security situation within the Defense Department. We have also discussed the Kidal investigation and the Ossendrecht investigation in this Chamber. That is also the reason why I come now to Mrs Karabulut's question: why we now have a bigger plan of action, not just on the abuse in Schaarsbergen or only on the shooting range in Ossendrecht or just on the question of what we are doing about security in mission areas. We involve all the elements that relate to the system, to the culture and to the way we deal with each other. That's not something that was sent yesterday and that's already finished. No, it's about putting that into practice. That's on a number of elements. It comes back in operational conversations. Just: what have you done with safety? Commanders just have to start every day. This concerns security in the form of social security and in the form of physical security. Make sure it's a subject that can be discussed and people start to feel safe. Is it never gonna happen again? No. There will always be situations where people are bullied or feel they are not safe. It's my job to get them to ring the bell right away. That is why I am so shocked by this particular point in the Giebel report. It's just the core. These kinds of things may occur, but we must ensure that, if they occur, there is action and whoever happens to them ring the bell.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u82	It's about bullying, disadvantage and sexual harassment. I realize you're not gonna change something that's been around for years and where meters of reports have appeared in a month or a year. But after this general answer from the Secretary of State, I would like to zoom in on Schaarsbergen. My question to the Secretary of State is what has been done in recent months against those who crossed the line in Schaarsbergen. Three boys are marked for life. The reports we receive show that even after a ban by the Secretary of State, a hazing ritual took place a few months later and may even take place until now. What concrete steps have been taken, both towards those who behave badly and do not comply with the rules and to improve conditions so that people feel safe?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u83	Those are several questions in a row about different subjects. Let me start with the first thing that's done. All commanders have been signed up and reiterated the fact that hazing is not allowed within the Defense Department. We have had this debate before and it sometimes seems like a hearing game, but let's not make it a big deal, because hazing is simply not allowed. It's cliff, clear and clear: it's just not allowed. Well, initiation rituals are okay. Mrs. Belhaj asked about physical integrity. That's what the CDS' clues even say that they can't. It's got to be supervised. One has to turn in a program. There must be no forced alcohol. These are all elements in the instructions of the Commander of the Armed Forces. So what happened? All commanders have been signed up and re-assigned to the rules. Then all commanders were asked to discuss this internally with the people and to ask what else could be done about the codes of conduct and initiation rituals. They have been asked what steps can be taken. Mrs Karabulut asks what happened next. Part of it is in the plan of action I sent along with the minister. A number of very concrete elements concerning the code of conduct have emerged from the organisation which need to be strengthened. For example, where can people make notifications? It is quite clear in the code of conduct that there is no room for bullying, intimidating and sexually intimidating behaviour. That's all there is, but if it's detected, where and how can you report it? This is one of the measures we are going to take following the internal inventory of the code of conduct. How does that get any more sharpness? Mrs. Bruins Slot asked about the initiation rituals and what came out of the inventory. All initiation rites have been requested from all commanders. It's been checked to see if they meet the CDS instructions. They'll do. Mrs Karabulut asked what we would do with that. Lieutenant Colonel Dalenberg didn't do an investigation for nothing. A number of speakers have also referred to this. He's been looking into how you can make things better. We're picking up the results. This can also be seen in the plan of action. That is not a static thing, of which we say: this is it. It is exactly as Mrs Karabulut said and as I began my speech: it is the change in culture that makes people feel safe. I really do not realize that only with a code of conduct adjustment. I don't realize that with just a letter from me to the commanders. The point is that this happens in everyday practice. That is precisely the reason why there is a security committee per Defence Unit, which has to discuss with each other every month on the basis of indicators what has happened and what the state of affairs is. Secondly, it is reflected in the operational discussions. I realize you can think, "Is that it?', But it's the combination of elements. I fully agree with Mrs Karabulut that you do not solve this with one measure, because this is about culture, the system and the method of working.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u84	Back to Schaarsbergen. I have two questions about that. The Secretary of State and the Minister have been there. As a result, a hazing was cancelled, but it took place later. What did the Secretary of State discuss on the ground? Did she ask for access to the playbook of the hazing? How did she assess that? My second question is this. I have just reported that we were told that on a family day a captain has been a little throw-away about the directions that are given politically. Is the Secretary of State familiar with that? Did she follow that, and what did she get out of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u85	To that last question, my answer is no. You just told me that. I don't know. I also just asked what was said there, because it certainly doesn't mean anything to me. That's why I'm making a call. I've heard a number of MPs say they have reports. My call would be: call it in! Report it to the Gibbles Commission. If you get any signals, call it in. Then we can do something with it. I shall now turn to the first question put by Mrs Ploumen. What was referred to in the newspaper was no hazing ritual. That was an initiation ritual. What an initiation ritual must comply with is prescribed, including the programme to which it refers. So there was no hazing. There was an initiation ritual planned. That initiation ritual did not continue at that time for reasons related to the implementation and the requirements it must meet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u86	Something was going to happen that night. According to the reports we have, it was alcohol-related. Some reports suggest that also the physical integrity of the people who are then called "cubs" are not at stake in my words. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore once again what she has done after hearing that such a ritual would take place. How is it that her perception is that it all went according to the rules? 'Cause we just heard from her that booze and all that kind of stuff are just not part of it. We agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u87	On the basis of this signal, I have requested all initiation rituals and asked the check whether they comply with the CDS designation. I did that on the basis of this signal. That's what this tiger test has been subjected to. Then it turned out that it met all the clues. For it does not say that there should not be a glass of alcohol, but that it should be accompanied and that it should not be too much. It says that you must not be forced to drink alcohol and that it must always be done under supervision. It also states that personal integrity must not be compromised. Those are all elements that are in there. If you say that there are signals within the Defense Department that this is happening, then my call is real: call it in! Call it in, or we're gonna have some kind of, uh, well-nothing game and a very difficult discussion with each other. Because then it seems like I don't want something Mrs Ploumen says. I don't know what was reported to her. Mrs Ploumen, if you have any signals that there were exactly those things that I just said they weren't allowed to do, I really call you to report. At least you can do that with the Gibbles Committee. You can do the same to me. But I can't act if I haven't received that signal from you. That's really my call. I regret that, because then we cannot act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u88	My third question. I'll be sure to report that. I'm also calling people to report that to that committee. The fact is that this particular event has been reported in the newspaper. That is information that the Secretary of State has also been able to take note of. It does mention excesses which do not fit within the framework referred to by the Secretary of State. My question was, I repeat, what the Secretary of State has done to deal with events that do not fit within the framework that she herself has rightly set.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u89	When I read that in the paper, I immediately thought: what is this? That is precisely why I asked for all initiation rituals, including this ritual, as I said in reply to Mrs Ploumen's first question. I also asked if they comply with the CDS designation. I can report that what was in the paper doesn't match what's being done. That's very relevant. Mrs Ploumen shakes a no. But I would point out that I requested the test referred to in the newspaper, precisely to see if it complies with our rules. My call is: they have to report this. I really want to report that. Mrs Ploumen, your question is whether I recognize what was in the paper. The answer is no. Did I ask about that? Yes. Is it true what was in the paper about what was actually in the tiger test? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u90	I have the next question. The Secretary of State refers all the time to the commander's instructions for whether or not things should happen. Next, she says that she requested the maps for all those initiation rituals. Is the Secretary of State willing to share it with the Chamber? I ask this because we, if I speak for myself, find it complicated by now. If anyone reports anything to me, I can't test what it should or shouldn't comply with. I don't think it's much of a state secret. In fact, if it's okay, it's a little protocol. I'd value it. I would also value it if it were made public, so that all boys and girls who are wondering whether or not they should know what they should or shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u91	I'm willing to share the CDS instruction with you. There are clear frameworks in it. I state that the CDS has made an inventory to see if all programs, all initiation rituals, comply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u92	That first part's nice. I'm also curious what such an initiation ritual looks like. I don't need to know all of it, and it can be anonymous, too. There are all different stories in this Chamber. There are also people who have great experiences. Since it is about something, I would be pleased if you were willing to add ten or twenty examples and send them to the Chamber, so that we can either be completely reassured or have another kind of debate with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u93	I even want to make another offer. I'd like to invite Mrs Belhaj and the rest of the House to take a look at an initiation ritual. Then you can see for yourself what it is and you can experience it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u94	I'm really sorry about this. It sounds super nice, but I don't have to do initiation ritual. I am a politician who, on the basis of annoying incidents, in which many boys have been hurt, wants to check with the Secretary of State how she conducts her policy. Whether I like it personally or not doesn't matter at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u95	I find Mrs Belhaj's reaction special. I'll make you an offer to meet you. You tell me you want to have more insight into it to get a sense of it. You state yourself that you want to be able to judge it. I'll make you an offer. You don't have to accept that, but then you can see for yourself. You don't have to use it, but I invite you to it. If you say you don't want to, that's fine. But you ask me to give more context to what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u96	This is wrong with me, because I'm asking you...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u97	To the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u98	Sorry, Chairman. I'm asking the Secretary of State to send those protocols, these initiation ritual programs, to the Chamber. Then I can look at it and I can test them against the clue you give. Then I can tell people who report to me that it's true or wrong. The fact that you're offering me a work visit and seeing an initiation ritual suggests that I don't know what an initiation ritual is or that I'm asking these questions because I don't understand what it can mean for someone. What I personally think of it and whether I like it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u99	All right, you made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u100	That was absolutely not my intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u101	It was a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u102	I am therefore very sorry that Mrs Belhaj takes it this way. I tried to meet you. So on this point, if Mrs Belhaj takes it that way, I am very sorry. That is what I want to say. You asked me about the context and I gave you the opportunity to give context to it. I'll send you the CDS instruction so you can take note of it. You just asked me that. Actually, I promised you. Then you can see what it says. For example, you had a number of questions about personal integrity and about alcohol. You can read that in it. You can then check the questions you have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u103	To continue at this point: is that the only thing, or are there any separate protocols for the initiation rituals?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u104	This is the clue to the initiation rituals. That's what Mrs. Belhaj just asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u105	In addition to these indications, there are no separate rules in the Defense Department or parts of the Defense Department for what initiation rituals must comply with? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u106	We have the code of conduct in general. We've got a lead on the Commander of the Armed Forces. When testing an initiation ritual one must comply with the instructions of the Commander of the Armed Forces. That does mean that there are several initiation rituals. Mr Bosman spoke of the Air Force. What Mr Bosman has done has been a while. But to give you an example: if you are an air traffic controller and want to join, you must take a course with all kinds of knowledge questions to join.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u107	Finally, this is your final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u108	My request is to get that information and those clues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u109	Those aren't clues, they're programs. That's a lot of them. Then you're really talking about hundreds, because they vary per armory unit. You have different usages and initiation rituals per unit and they have to comply with the clue that there is. That clue has been re-examined and re-inventoried. It has been checked whether it is being complied with. I'll send you that clue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u110	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The most important thing is that we want each other to have an organisation in which people feel free to report things to make sure that what we are proud of in the Defence Organisation can actually do. I have also reported over the last few years that a lot of people have been attracted to what happened in Schaarsbergen, because they are so proud of Defence, they do not recognize what is happening in everyday practice and they want it to come out of this spiral. The Minister and I believe that with the plan of action we sent yesterday, we can take a first step towards a safer organisation. We are also aware that this has not happened at once and that this is a continuous process. The same applies to such a code of conduct. It wasn't changed at once. That is precisely why it also states that we will continue to do so continuously and that, as far as I am concerned, we will continue to review this code of conduct in order to assess what is needed and exactly what is happening. Over the past period I have also been able to sit at a number of sessions and experience that it is applied differently per Defence component. For example, the KMar just has a slightly different task exercise than certain units of the army. So it is very much about the conversation and the dilemmas that you then discuss, in the sense of: how should I see this now, where can I go if I run into a dilemma and what does this mean for me? I think we should do it that way, because it is not going to happen with rules alone. This is a cultural change where you have to ensure that you create the right framework conditions with each other so that this can happen. We have also deliberately chosen these conditions in the Defence Memorandum. I am thinking of giving more powers to commanders so that they can actually be responsible and ensure that they get a budget for their own military buildings so that they can exercise adequate supervision. In this context, I also mention wifi in the military buildings. These are all preconditions to ensure that the likelihood of it occurring is reduced. 'Cause that's what you want in the end. It does not mean that it will never happen again, but that has been our approach with the choice in the Defence Note and with the plan of action security that we are going to talk about. I now turn to the questions that have been asked. Mrs Ploumen and Mrs Karabulut have asked why I do not forbid hazing. I repeat, they are already forbidden. Then there is the question of why there is no ban on initiation rituals: because they contribute to solidarity. I heard Mrs Belhaj say: an ordinary organization. Defense is about life and death. You have to be able to rely on each other. It's about creating a basis of trust with each other so that there's a sense of being there in difficult circumstances. That's why there's such an initiation ritual. It's about simple things, for example, that all the zippers and buttons of the military uniform are closed. 'Cause imagine you're in an enemy situation and those things in your uniform aren't closed. Then maybe you just didn't get that last bullet on hand because it fell out. That may sound like a very small thing to you, but that is exactly why you look at your uniform in the context of the initiation ritual, in the sense of: be aware that your uniform always looks neat and that everything is closed. So it's not like: let's look at a uniform and let's make it a nice party. This is about building on each other in a war situation and trusting each other, that you stand with each other for certain values. You test that with each other at the initiation ritual and that process you continue with each other. That is precisely why it is all prescribed, namely to prevent excessive, excessive situations from arising that we do not want to have with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u112	I'd like to know what questions you're going to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u113	I started with the first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u114	From?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u115	From Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u116	And were you done with Mrs Ploumen's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u117	I was still working on the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u118	I would ask you to deal first with all of Mrs Ploumen's questions before I give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u119	That's good, Mr. Chairman. So on the question of whether I'm willing to abolish the initiation rituals, the answer is no. Am I prepared to see if they meet, as Mrs Bruins Slot and Mr Bosman also indicated, and are functional? Yeah, and we're gonna keep doing that. We did an inventory once. I started that, too. Sander Dalenberg also looked at it and said that you have to keep looking at what values there are and how to implement them. He had a nice example of that: do you separate people who have been injured in a platoon or do you take them with you? If your value is that you don't leave people behind in the field, you just have to take those people in tow, even though you're hurt and even though it means something to your stakes. These are exactly the reasons for thinking about how an initiation ritual contributes to such values. That's a continuous process. The same goes for the initiation rituals. That kind of contribution in solidarity, especially in a very special situation where you actually have to trust and build on each other blindly, is also why I continue to stick to those initiation rituals. I also think it is important to mention that what happened in Schaarsbergen simply does not belong to anyone who calls it 'hazing' or whatever. That wasn't an initiation ritual or anything. That had nothing to do with it. That was structural bullying behavior from a group of people that defense is unworthy of. That had nothing to do with a term like "initiation ritual." People worked there and they were systematically bullied every day. And not only bullied, it went one step further. There's no indication or prohibition or anything against that. And that's part of the fact that you're reporting that we're gonna take those people directly and take action against those offenders. That's the only cure you have. I think it is important to report this, because now it seems to me that, and I would like to dwell on that, it is as if, by abolishing the initiation rituals or hazings or whatever term you want to stick to, you are solving the problems. And it's exactly not. When people are bullied every day, you have to make sure you intervene on that. That has nothing to do with the initiation rituals. Those initiation rituals are meant for solidarity. They are in no way an excuse for bullying or cross-standard behavior. Then I would like to move on to the question of how the House is reported about the reports on social insecurity. We have been reporting since last year in the annual report on integrity, in which we also discuss the number of notifications and how they are implemented. That's what we do in public. So you can just take note of that. We have also indicated that, in the context of the progress of the plan of action, we also intend, at least at the regular intervals, both in the budget and in the annual report, to consider the measures and their progress. Then questions were asked by Mrs Belhaj how to avoid misunderstandings, and also by Mrs Ploumen. I have just indicated something about the plan of action we sent yesterday, which is intended to prevent this kind of behaviour when it comes to culture. It is therefore essential that we not only adapt the code of conduct, but also discuss it in a structural manner and organise an information campaign to bring it to the attention of the public, the Counter-Speaking campaign, yes. We will ensure that the commanders are equipped to investigate this issue in terms of physical and social security and risk analysis. We'll make sure they discuss it monthly. We will ensure that it is dealt with in working conversations. These are many measures that need to be taken together, so we hope that we will be able to combat this kind of cross-standard behaviour and avoid it as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u120	These were Mrs Ploumen's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u121	It's not just by name, it's by subject. Perhaps there are more questions from Mrs Ploumen, but I will come to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u122	No one, neither do I, suggests that if you say that hazing is forbidden, they no longer prevent it. I wish we were, because we wouldn't be having this conversation right now. I'd rather not have this put in my mouth. That's one. Two. Two. We have seen what the Giebels Committee reports on the events in Schaarsbergen and also notes, by the way, that was not new, because that was already reported by the three men that some of the events have not been investigated. I've asked the Secretary of State if she's prepared to order it to do so now. Because all the fine words, change plans, codes of conduct, everything we come up with here, will all fall apart if we do not act immediately after reporting and intervention after research has been carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u123	Mr. Chairman. There is currently a criminal investigation following the report in Schaarsbergen. So I'm gonna have to wait and see about that criminal investigation. We can't start an investigation on our own right now. There have been investigations and that is exactly what Giebels also refers to in her report. That wasn't enough. Both substantive and procedural errors have simply been made. That is why we have said that this must be changed in the plan of action. More needs to be done about the handling, professionalism and the quality of this type of research. We have also indicated that we are going to do so, by making both money and capacity available so that we can do this kind of research better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u124	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u125	But if there's a criminal investigation going on, we'll have to wait for that criminal investigation first. That's what we do in all major investigations. So I'll wait for that investigation first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u126	Surely it is very relevant what the Secretary of State says here. One of the elements of Giebels' report is that this committee was set up as an external committee, but does not actually have the power of perseverance that might be needed. Apart from the right not to have to testify, which could be harmful to yourself, you also notice that not all documents are provided. That is why I wonder to what extent you will be on top of that in order to ensure that any documents that are not delivered can still be delivered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u127	This investigation has been concluded and, at my request, the Giebels Committee has looked at how the process has gone, precisely in order to learn lessons from this. That's why I started this investigation. The Goebels Committee notes that a number of things have not gone well, both in terms of procedure and content. The committee also notes a number of things that have been done. That is to learn from and to take the next step now, when it comes to doing this research in a better way in the future. Those are the steps we are going to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u128	Finally. This is your last question, Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u129	A bit of a shame. That is not entirely true, because it is an interim report of Giebels in which three elements are now emerging. The way one deals with notifications, how one can best organise them, is the second part. So, of course, your plan of action will come in time, but there may still be new information in the direction of July on the basis of which the current plan of action may have to change because three elements have not yet been worked out. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u130	Yes, Mr. Chairman. In my view, I have included this in a letter to the Chamber and also in a plan of action, even several times. That is also what I indicated to you at the beginning. I myself asked for the mid-term report because I think it is important to be able to take steps as quickly as possible instead of conducting eight months of research and only then to be able to take those steps. The Giebels Committee still has to investigate the aftercare, in what way it is designed. The Giebels committee still has to do some research. That's what they're going to give to the hotline, what's coming in, what can we learn from that report and what does that mean, for example, for positioning? The Giebels committee still needs to investigate the willingness to report and how to increase it within the Defense Department. So it's definitely not an end point. That is why the plan of approach literally states that this is a starting point and that the plan of approach is a first step, that the measures must of course be further developed, but that the Giebels Committee should also take these points further. So that does not mean that we do nothing internally, as I indicated to you last time. That's why we started having all these conversations internally. Then there is the question of the code of conduct. What I just mentioned, though from the organization a number of elements emerged how you can improve a number of things. So we do and, as well as: both within the organisation now enter into conversations and see what else can be done as well as let the Giebels committee do the further research and wait. This is an interim report. I hope that, on the basis of the final report, as the Giebels Committee pointed out, we will also be able to draw up a number of concrete measures on these three elements: the willingness to report, the system and also the follow-up. I hope that this interim report for the victims of Schaarsbergen indicates what they have come up against and in whatever way they can be helped. Questions have been raised by the Chamber in the past, and once again the question came up: what are you going to do for the victims of Schaarsbergen? That's what we're talking to. That's what we're gonna keep talking to. We have indicated that we will vouch for the aftercare they need. That varies from one individual to another. I know the Chamber is on top of it, and so is I. I'll go on to the questions asked. I've already answered some of those questions. What am I gonna do about the fear culture? Mrs Belhaj brought that up too. The Giebels Committee has been instructed to see what else can be done when it comes to the willingness to report. She also indicates something about this in her report. As I said, it is also one of the important things for me in the elaboration of a plan of action. How do you make people feel safe to report anything? The example has to be: if you report something, you're a hero. It shouldn't hurt your career. That is exactly why it must be a topic in the discussion. This indicates that it is important that you do ring the bell when it comes to safety. It's not used against you in your career, it's used as a pre. That is why we want a zero-measurement of security per component of the defence. Then you can measure progress. This applies in the negative, but also in the positive: if defence components score very well in that, then of course the question is how they do it. What did you do? What makes you so good at this? What can we learn from you? On the other hand, if you don't do it right, you get the conversation how. What are you gonna do and how are you gonna do it? If you think about that every month, you have a means of exerting pressure to get an insight into it and, above all, to start the conversation. I think that is the most important thing: it is about talking, it is about doing normal, it is about creating a culture in which it becomes normal. Safety must be the norm. A number of questions have been asked about the commanders, the CDS, the clue when it comes to initiation rituals. I believe that I have responded to this, including my commitment to send the appointment to the Chamber. Mrs. Bruins Slot asked about the communication around the hazings. How was that communicated? I have already indicated that: simply by letter to all defence components, with the request to discuss it further in the organisation via the line. In this way, we need concrete measures on what we can do. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bruins Slot also asked if I would be prepared to give a feedback on this code of conduct by 26 April. I just indicated what at least came out of the internal inventory. I went to work abroad myself and picked up a number of things. How do other countries deal with this? What are they running into? I have noticed that the subject is in several countries. In the coming period we will talk to the organisation again to further develop this on the basis of a plan of approach. I would also like to involve the Goebels Committee. In that sense, I'm in a bit of a difficult position. On the one hand, we have instructed the Giebels Committee to develop these three aspects. It is my experience that it does not work to change the code of conduct every month. I'd like to arrange a moment to amend the code of conduct. It is my proposal to do so when we have the report of the Gibbles Committee. Then we have the internal discussion and Giebels, in which we have also taken the experience abroad. Then you can put it in a good way, in one way Mrs. Bruins Slot knows how to put it in Defense. If we change something every month, everyone's gonna ask, "What's the latest version?"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u131	There's logic in the Secretary of State's remark that you have to do it right in one go. She indicated that Mrs Giebels and her committee will present the final report on 15 July. When will the Secretary of State be expected to come to the House of Representatives with a response and the incorporation into the Code of Conduct?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u132	I can't put an end date on that right now. As far as I'm concerned, it happens as soon as possible after the report arrives. But this also applies, of course, to the need to look at what the Gibels Committee comes up with. We have now received the interim report. I would like to talk to the Giebels committee to see what we can do specifically with the points in the interim report, also in conjunction with the plan of action that is now in place. I also want to hear her footage of the extent to which it already helps on the basis of that interim report. I don't know what final report Giebels is going to come up with, but that depends very much when I come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u133	The date of publication is 15 July. This is in the middle of the summer recess or at the beginning of the summer recess of the House of Representatives. My expectation is that the Secretary of State will at least give a brief update on where we stand at the moment the Chamber starts meeting again, although I would prefer to have the final report of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u134	Of course. Mrs Bruins Slot asks: can you give an update on what the process is and what the next approach is? Of course, I can do that now that I have the mid-term report. I do not know whether I have incorporated everything into the recommendations she makes. That was my call, but I just don't know what it's gonna come up with and what the recommendations are. I will have to assess it and I will have to see how we can implement it. The update on at least the process I give absolutely, including where it can be about the content, so what we have done with it. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mrs Karabulut's question about the disadvantage of people who have reported. That was actually her call. I believe that I have indicated my own position and that the intention of the plan of action is right that we should make a change to it. We are also going to see in the coming period whether we can improve the regime for research when these things occur and whether we can strengthen the position of the detectors themselves. In any case, people will be given better guarantees and they will be sure that they can be given a firmer position. I am also curious to see what the Goebels Committee itself will come up with when it comes to: how can you strengthen and anchor that even better? Then there is Mrs Karabulut's question as to whether the perpetrators have been held inactive. On the basis of the previous investigation that has been carried out and all the comments made yesterday by the Giebels Committee, the four offenders mentioned at that time received a negative message of office in 2013 or were relieved of their duties. The declaration from 2017 is, of course, still ongoing. The prosecution is not making any announcement about this at the moment, so I cannot take any other measures at the moment because of that investigation. First of all, we will have to wait and see what comes out of the investigation, what people they are and what that means. In my view, I gave the answer to Mrs Ploumen's question on compensation for victims. Mrs Ploumen also asked about the independent external hotline. I really want to involve that in the final report of the Gibels Committee. I have also reported to the Chamber that I just want to see what will come out of it when it comes to how you can better shape the willingness to report and also the reporting system. The Giebels Committee notes a number of issues in its interim report, but also points out that further research is needed, so I await the investigation in that report. I note, however, that we also have an internal hotline and that we are also being reported there at the moment when it comes to integrity violations. This does not just have to be about bullying, but it can also be about fraud or other cases. You will also see this in the annual report that you will receive when it comes to integrity. We see an increase in the number of reports, but we also see a decrease in the felt unwanted behaviour. That is a positive development. So people have started reporting more over the past year, but they also feel that there is less undesired behaviour. You will also be able to take note of this in the annual report that will be published. We will, of course, continue to analyse what that means, also in conjunction with the Gibels Committee. Then there is Mrs Belhaj's question as to why the interim report was sent yesterday instead of 15 March. I have indicated that I think it is important that there should be an interim report to take note of it, but above all that it should be possible to take action. That's how I reported it to the Chamber. I'm asking for that mid-term report to have the first building blocks for a plan of action. I thought it was important to be able to send the whole of the plan of action and the interim report to the Chamber so that you know what we are going to do with it. From the outset I have linked back to the Gibels Committee, but also to the Chamber, that I would come up with both the interim report and the plan of action in one go. This is how I experience Mrs Bruins Slot's question. I'm fine with that, even after mid-July. But if things are going on, it's good to at least inform the Chamber about the process. I did this as soon as possible, within two weeks, in order to be able to incorporate the interim report of the Giebels Committee into the plan of action. I have answered, in my view, Mrs Karabulut's question about what I am doing to encourage people to report. For this we are going to conduct campaigns that are about organising conflict, reporting, and giving more information about how to report. We will adapt the code of conduct accordingly and implement all the measures I have just mentioned. The question is whether it is enough, but we will continue to pay attention to it. I'm sure this is a continuous process that you can't manage with one campaign. This calls for constant attention. That is also why the issue of security should be discussed every month within all Defence components. Through the pressure to discuss and implement it every month, it is firmly anchored in the organisation. Then there is the question that has been asked several times about 16 February: I do not know. I have just heard that from the Chamber, but I have not yet received any information on what has happened there. To the question about the tiger test and what I've now forbidden, I've gone into it. I've indicated that the tiger test is an initiation ritual. I've asked if this one fits the clue, and that's the case. As a result, a broad inventory has been carried out. I think I'm through with all the questions. I see Mrs Belhaj shaking no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u135	No, Mrs. Belhaj is through her interruptions, so I'd like to ask you if you're really done with all the questions. That's the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u136	I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u137	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA. I see she's carrying a pile of motions. I hear there's three of them. Then I would advise her to start reading the motions immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u138	Yes, Chairman, I do. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas undesirable behaviour, such as bullying, intimidation and sexual violence in Dutch society and thus within the armed forces, is unacceptable;]] [[noting that non-functional hazing practices or initiation rituals are taking place leading to unwanted behaviour;]] [[Considering that in its interim report the Committee on Socially Safe Working Environment stated that hazing rituals undermine social security within Defence and recommended that hazing practices or initiation rituals be eliminated as far as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to explicitly ban hazing within the armed forces and to include this in the Code of Conduct,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-89]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u139	Mr. Chairman. Another motion on the follow-up of support for the men in Schaarsbergen, because it is important for them to be fully restored and to get rid of the brand they have received.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u140	You really need to read the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u141	That's what I'm gonna do now, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that three soldiers in Schaarsbergen are in a terrible way victims of hazing of which they still experience every day the pain of what has been done to them;]] [[noting that the follow-up to the report for the soldiers affected had very undesirable results and that the three soldiers had suffered disadvantages from their reporting;]] [[considers that the three soldiers deserve all the support they need and should not suffer any disadvantages;]] [[calls on the Government to make full reparation and compensation for the victims of the hazing in Schaarsbergen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-90]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u142	Motions are filed a lot and you might think: a motion, that doesn't matter very much. But a motion is a heavy means.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u143	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u144	A ruling is requested here, or an order given to the cabinet. Can Mrs Ploumen indicate that she has the impression that this cabinet or this minister or this State Secretary is not doing it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u145	That is a very fair question from Mr Bosman. He's also right when he says that you only have to file motions if you really think something needs to be done. So the answer to that is that I'm not comfortable with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u146	That's a firm statement from a Member of Parliament. Then you say: I do not trust what the Secretary of State and the Minister have just said. That's basically what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u147	I say that I am not reassured, and I do not say that lightly, again, for the reasons that Mr Bosman indicates. I am very aware that in such situations you have to act very carefully, if you want to guide people who have experienced such a thing. That's what I heard the Secretary of State say. At the same time, a motion has been tabled. We have also... a motion has been tabled and I'm doing another, again, just to be sure, because I'm not comfortable with it. I'm a little vague because I don't want to break the confidentiality of some conversations. I had hoped that with this motion there would be that extra encouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u148	Proceed with the final motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u149	Mr. Chairman. Considering that many reports of unwanted behaviour have been made in recent decades, including sexual abuse and intimidation within the armed forces; noting that despite the recommendations of past investigation committees and proposed measures of successive directors continue to indicate in 2018 that they have missed an external and independent body in which they can report; noting that the interim report reports that there is a lack of knowledge among people who need to investigate reports, that independence is not guaranteed and that there are breaches of confidentiality; considering that reporters of unwanted behaviour should be able to...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u150	Now I'm really gonna stop you, because this just can't happen. We have agreed to speak with each other. Everyone's supposed to stick to that. It cannot be the case that you are speaking for almost three minutes now, whereas speaking time is a third of the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u151	But Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u152	You have been over your speaking time for almost two minutes, and you know that very well, Mrs Ploumen. That's not fair to other colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u153	Mr President, I had not finished my time in my first term, and I would like to read out a very careful motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u154	No, we do not work here to save speaking time. Otherwise, we'd have a whole mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u155	Okay. Mr President, let me say that it is in no way my intention to harm anyone. I have drawn up this motion in such detail precisely because I would like to follow very precisely the lines of the Goebels Committee and do not want to wrong previous attempts either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u156	No, you do not need me the content of it... I would say: take that motion and submit it again last time when the debate is at hand. Because you are really over your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u157	I will, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u158	Thank you. I'm going to see Mrs Karabulut now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas initiation rituals, in the light of current barracks culture, can easily be a cause or even a pretext for hazing, as is also apparent from practice;]] [[Considering that the direct result of the tiger test is a broad interpretation of the concept of "initiation ritual," in which excessive drinking was at stake;]] [[noting that this ritual has been practice in this section for many years and can therefore be considered as part of the culture;]] [[calls on the government no longer to allow initiation rites,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-X-91]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u160	That culture of pestilence and humiliation is just too deep, and this has been going on for years, saying: we must allow it. We must ban this. You can also perform all the components that the organisation needs to function properly in lessons and practical tests. They're not teenagers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u161	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u162	...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u163	Well, not "stop, stop." You wanted to interrupt, just nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u164	Mr President, I said "just for a moment." Excuse me for a second. I didn't say "stop." I'm afraid to say "stop" to the chairman. That's your right. We had a rather solid discussion in the first term about the respect we express to the men and women of the armed forces. We all think they're doing a very good job. But now I hear Mrs Karabulut say that the plague culture is so deep in the organisation. Can Mrs Karabulut clarify this or express herself more carefully? 'Cause I'm sure she can't mean the whole organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u165	This is what Mr Bosman makes of it every time, as Mr Bosman does every time. We've been discussing reports here for years. Everyone knows that, of course, it doesn't apply to all the men and women working in the Defense Department. But I am talking about those who are affected, who have been humiliated and oppressed for years, and those who, as the report of the Goebels Committee also shows, do not dare to report. You can't do that. The Defence Organization and men and women are doing important work. I respect that. It takes courage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u166	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u167	But, Mr President, it cannot be that our own staff is unsafe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u168	Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u169	That is the purpose of this motion. Nothing more, nothing less. Nor should Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u170	Finally, Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u171	I am very pleased with Mrs Karabulut's statement that it is about the people who really do the wrong things. That's the point. Besides all those people who do a lot of good work, there are people who really go over the line. You've got to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u172	I call Mrs Belhaj, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u173	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering a number of questions. The other questions will be sent to the Secretary of State in a different way. Mr. Chairman. Many people who are not entirely following this debate think: yes, initiation rituals, that can also be very nice; hazings, little laughing. But the reason why I stress that initiation rituals should also be absolutely clear is because in a hierarchical structure, where people wear a uniform, where there is a relationship of authority and where there is a government organization that has a very extensive training to test people, excesses are absolutely not part of it. I welcome the commitment to send the command instructions, but I would actually like to ask whether of the hundreds of initiation rituals that the Minister has requested, we could receive at least ten, anonymized, in order to read for ourselves not to see what exactly that looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u174	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Bruins Slot on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u175	Mr. Chairman. This debate is due to the abuses in Schaarsbergen, for which there is no place within Defence, for which there is no place in Dutch society as a whole. That is why I think it is right for the Secretary of State to say so clearly that this is so incredibly unworthy of defence. The key point, as the Secretary of State also points out, is that it is important to report any bullying within that organisation, any intimidation or other things that are inadmissible, and that something is being done about it. And there's work to be done. That is why I am looking forward to the debate on 26 April to continue with the Secretary of State to see how we can ensure that the reporting will increase and that this kind of thing will not be allowed to happen within the organisation of Defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u176	Thank you. Finally, Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We can decide a lot of things here and we can make a lot of regulations. What matters is that within the organization there is a realization that if you carry out this kind of behavior that is so undesirable, you are a disgrace to the uniform, you are a disgrace to the armed forces, you are a disgrace to your part, and you are not helping anyone, nor anyone else. That must be the essence. When you talk about culture, the feeling of honor, responsibility, the oath you take to protect the homeland and the protection of the people; that may have to apply to your colleague more than anyone else. I think that's the culture we have to go to and the responsibility we all have. Of course, I repeat: commanders are important, but the soldier, the sergeant, the lieutenant, the captain, the general, the participation, the union and we as politicians also have a responsibility to clearly define the limits and to address each other on what is absolutely impossible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u178	Thank you. Can you respond directly, Secretary of State? Yes. There are indeed three motions. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u179	Mr. Chairman. Before I start responding to the motions, I would like to make a statement. I must say that it now seems as if we are doing a word game with each other about hazing and initiation rituals, and as if I say that there is room for defense unworthy behavior when I say that I do want to maintain initiation rituals. That's not true. I've tried to tell you that Defense is an organization that I'm extremely proud of, and you too, where people work who are passionate about doing their jobs and where people want to be safe. Unfortunately, however, due to a number of tragic accidents and also by Schaarsbergen, we have found that this is not always the case and that there is work to be done. Mrs Karabulut and Mrs Ploumen rightly point out that this has been noted earlier. That also indicates that this is not easy. That indicates it's not solved with one thing. This indicates that the Minister and I must work very hard to ensure that people feel safe in this organisation. That is why I make the next appeal to you and to everyone who I have done before to the unions that are sitting around this afternoon with the central reporting point of Defence. We need to see how we can make sure that when signals come in from inside or outside of Defense, people feel comfortable reporting it because they don't have to be afraid that it means anything to their career. We want people who report things to be considered heroes. That's how I experience it. The same goes for the Schaarsbergen boys. Those were heroes. They've been through something terrible. I really hope that never has to happen to anyone in the D.O.D. again, but I can't rule it out. We have also had discussions in this Chamber about #MeToo. Mr Bosman talked about the aid organisations, but it occurs in many places. Only I don't think it belongs within the Defense Department. It doesn't belong anywhere, not even within the DOD. It is my duty to act against it. However, I do not believe that by abolishing initiation rituals, which are so part of this solidarity and can rely on each other, we will stop unwanted behaviour. Because what happened in Schaarsbergen had nothing to do with an initiation ritual. That had to do with structural bullying, which doesn't belong within the Defense Department. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll move on to the response to the motions. Mrs Ploumen asked the government to introduce an explicit ban. There is. I keep repeating that: there is. I also repeat that I will continue to name it. It is also literally stated in the Code of Conduct that there should be no unwanted behaviour within Defence, such as discrimination, such as sexual harassment, such as bullying, "in respect of myself or others." It is a code of conduct formulated in the I form. So it's very specific. This is true in the time of an initiation ritual but also in the time when you are simply placed within a unit, as was the case in Schaarsbergen. Adding the term "hazing" would not have helped. As I have said to you before, I am prepared to do everything I can to clarify the code of conduct and to see what words need to be included so that people have what they can do. That's also about questions like: where do you report cases, for example? This came from the organization itself. So I'm gonna change the code of conduct, but I don't think we're just gonna solve this problem with the word "hazing." I have just said in reply to Mrs Bruins Slot that I would rather do it right at once rather than add a word every month. I want to put that code of conduct in place in one go, so that everyone has it between their ears and we can continue to talk about it. So, Mr President, I would advise against the motion, in that I agree with its content: what is there, we do not want to be together. That explicit ban is there, so it is unnecessary. And I have indicated to you how I intend to deal with this code of conduct in the process. It now seems as if we have opposing opinions, but I do not think that is the case: we want exactly the same thing. Then I'm going to move on to the second motion, which is part number one. 90. It calls on the government to make full reparation and compensation for the victims of the hazings in Schaarsbergen. Mrs Ploumen knows and Mr Bosman brought it up: I find it very difficult to deal with individual cases. A motion has been tabled earlier, about which I have informed the Chamber. I am doing this with the unions, too, to see with them how we can guide these boys in a good way and ensure that they can move on with their lives. My conviction is that we do so with honor and conscience, with respect for everyone. You are calling for something that has already been done and which is already being implemented. If you think that's not right, then ring the bell. But this is a motion that has already been tabled and taken over, which I have already indicated that I am taking over and that I am working on it. I find this a very difficult motion, because it suggests that I do not and do not want to, as if it did not happen. I think it's very important to have a conversation with these guys. I think it's very important that these guys get a position, and that's what I said. I've been talking to them, and I think it's very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u180	With some hesitation and very briefly, because for the reasons also mentioned by Mr Bosman, I do not need to go into the specific situation. But I just wanted to let the Secretary of State know that I have indeed already made the call.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u181	I'm not going into individual handling here. I think we should see that with each other. If Mrs Ploumen's appeal is to continue to pay attention, I say yes. But I know she talked to the victims herself, and you're not gonna be in cold clothes. If you read it in the paper, the chills are already on your back. If you've talked to the victims yourself, it's gonna get worse. As I just said, I don't think it's worthy of the DOD. This isn't supposed to happen. It has my personal attention, and I know from a number of people within the organization that they are working on it day and night. That is what I am saying. I'm dissuading the motion. The same applies to the last motion, in part No. 91, by Mrs Karabulut on the initiation rituals. I have already dealt with this in my introduction. I think that was him, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u182	Yes. There was another question from Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u183	I have asked one question, namely whether it is possible to receive ten of these hundreds of initiation rituals as Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u184	I suggest you get the lead first. Then at least you have an idea of what the initiation rituals are. In any case, in an explanatory letter, I can indicate the types of initiation rituals. But I suggest we do it that way. Then, of course, there is the offer of further clarification. But let's start with that. I think you care a lot already. Because the question is actually: I want to get a feel for it, because I hear all about it, the reports come in to me, I just can't test it and I want to have something of a review framework to hear how to place it. So I suggest we start with that clue, where I can give you a brief explanation of what it is and what it means. Then you can see on that basis whether you think that is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u185	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-29-tweedekamer-4.u186	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
