ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the second deadline for the amendment of the Motor Vehicle Training Act 1993. The Chamber begins in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr Laçin has the floor first on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the first term of this debate, on 27 September, after three years, we began to discuss in plenary the amendment of the Road Driving Training Act, the WRM. During that debate it appeared that the parties present were very much in favour of many proposals in this legislative amendment. We agree that higher requirements should be imposed on the influx of instructors, for example by introducing a vog. We are also thinking of the requirement that a person must have a valid driving licence for at least five years before he can become a driving instructor. What we did not agree with the Minister is the sanction on practical guidance. As Mr von Martels said in the first term, this sanction is like a sword of Damocles above the head of instructors who can lose their business in no time, with all the consequences. In our view, this is too heavy and needs to be changed. I would therefore like to thank the Minister for her outstretched hand and the space she has given us to come up with a proposal. We appreciate that. Four of the five parties participating in this debate found the sanction disproportionately harsh. That is why we have put forward a proposal that is reflected in the amendment which has been distributed today after a great deal of delay. In this proposal, we are changing the sanction to practical guidance without withdrawing the right to study. The main reason for this is that the current sanction has not produced the desired result to get the rotten apples out of the sector. We discussed this for a long time in the first term. This amendment gives instructors the room to take sufficient time to prepare and complete a rematch. The threat of losing one's own company is not there, which also gives space and confidence. But, of course, there are consequences for the insufficient completion of practical guidance. The instructor is required to re-launch within six months. If this is not the case, the right of inquiry shall be revoked. As far as we are concerned, any re-launch brings with it increasing costs. That makes it unattractive for instructors. We will probably make that as a change in the amendment, as a result of the Minister's reaction. The rising costs ultimately ensure that instructors who do not work with them will also fail. With this amendment and other proposals that we have tabled in motions, we want to go for a quality boost in the sector. Practical guidance that better matches the needs of instructors, no more trick show but real practical situations, mandatory elements of theoretical training and higher influx requirements such as the vog will help the sector move forward. At least the SP is convinced of that. Mr. Chairman. I also have a number of motions I would like to table. That's what I'm getting into right now. The first is about changing the organisation of practical guidance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the five-year practical guidance is currently insufficient to meet the needs of driving instructors;]] [[noting that practical guidance is predictable and is seen as a trick show for which driving instructors can prepare and easily succeed;]] [[Whereas the current form of practical guidance does not contribute to the development of driving instructors and the selection of rotten apples in the sector;]] [[calls on the government, together with the sector, to rethink the practical guidance which focuses on the needs of the driving instructors, ensure good daily practice and avoid predictable examinations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin, Mr Van Aalst, Mr von Martels and Mr Sienot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34182-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. Then the requirement to have a valid driver's license for five years before you can become a driving instructor. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is possible for anyone with a driving licence B to become a driving instructor from day one that the driving licence has been obtained;]] [[noting that the provision of driving lessons is a major responsibility;]] [[noting that for the accompanying driving (2toDrive) higher requirements are imposed on the accompanying person, such as, for example, five years in possession of a valid driving licence;]] [[Whereas higher inflow requirements for the function of driving instructor will help the sector to move forward qualitatively;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, together with the sector, the possibilities for introducing the five-year requirement in the driving school sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin, Mr Van Aalst, Mr von Martels and Mr Sienot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34182-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. Finally, the ghostry schools, which I also mentioned in my first term. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that driving schools use "ghostry schools" to maintain success rates of the real driving school;]] [[noting that this makes the actual success rates of a driving school unclear;]] [[Whereas this affects transparency and competition in the driving school sector;]] [[calls on the government, together with the sector, to take steps to make "ghostry schools" impossible and to address driving schools using them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34182-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Soon the PVV and D66 will also file motions. I don't think the CDA is doing that. I am also under the motions of the PVV and D66. Finally, Mr President. In the driving school business a lot is going well. That must also be emphasised. We want the driving school industry to get a boost and the rotten apples to disappear. The change in the law, with our amendment, will certainly help. I'm happy about that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u7	Thank you. Mr Dijkstra has the floor on behalf of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u8	Thank you. If your own kid goes for the driver's license, that's very exciting. Then you want a good driving instructor, someone you can trust, who makes sure that your child finally gets the driver's license after a few months of driving lessons, where she is thoroughly prepared for her exam. I get that. Then there's a life of freedom, because you have your pink paper in your pocket. You've become mobile and you can discover the world yourself. You can safely participate in traffic. It's delicious, isn't it? Maybe at some point you can do that with your own car. Fortunately, things often go well, but sometimes they don't. Sometimes the driving instructor is unable to give good driving lessons. In a single case, a driving instructor is not integrity. We all know the wrong examples of endless classes, exams and costs. We also know advertisements from driving schools asking for actions in kind in exchange for driving lessons. I admit it's extreme, but it happens. Those are things you don't want to think about. Sometimes a driving school is also a cover for other purposes. We just don't want these guys in the car as an instructor with your kids. Fortunately, this law gives the driver a number of requirements to be met, with the aim of improving the quality of the driving school industry. The explanation of behavior is a first step. There will also be requirements for influx, quality requirements and agreements on further training. An exam is just one of them. If a driving instructor himself cannot pass an exam in order to be able to teach, how can you expect this driving school instructor to prepare his students well for the examination at the Central Bureau Driving Certificates?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u9	Of course, I fully share the VVD's plea. These are safe road users, and drivers need to be trained to be safe road users anyway. Fortunately, we have the system that people have had to travel an entire route before they can be a driving teacher at all. Is it known to the VVD that people have already passed an exam if they even get a student next to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u10	I don't like a system. I'll approach this from your own child, or a student who just wants to be properly and thoroughly trained. In recent years and in the crisis years, the system you are talking about has led to the addition of a lot of driving school holders who did not really want to give driving lessons, but had other purposes. They may not be able to transfer that knowledge to the student. That's wrong. We have to separate the chaff from the chaff. That industry is absolutely beautiful, but there are a number of parties that don't belong in it. We need to filter it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u11	Of course, we fully agree with that. The whole point is that at the moment those rotten apples are not filtered out at all. That's one. Secondly, there is no improvement, there is no development towards higher success rates, for example, and you name it all. So there is no improvement. The current system has not improved in recent years. I ask you once again whether you are aware that these people have already passed their exams. And do you also see that it does not lead to improvements at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u12	They have a pass and they are allowed to teach, but if they are not tested, there are people who do not belong. That's exactly what this law is trying to do. Nine years, nine years, President! It has been discussed and debated and there have been many rounds of questions. Last time we talked about this in detail. Then, together with three other parties, you said: I have a better proposal to remove the sanction. But a law without sanction is actually an empty shell. Anyway, there's something on the table right now. I think it is important that we can go through with some positive things in that law. I would like to say a few words about the amendment that I received this afternoon, which came about with steam and boiling flying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u13	The sanction does not go away in the amendment. It's only decorated differently. I would like to correct that after Mr Dijkstra's words. I very much agree with Mr Dijkstra that we must separate the chaff from the chaff. But we must also note, also in the light of the debate we have had in the first term, that the current sanction does not provide for this. Last year, I believe, it was carried out 16 times. So who do we separate from what? And it's not the rotten apples we filter out, but especially the unlucky ones. That was also a conclusion. Does Mr Dijkstra agree with me that we should separate the chaff from the wheat at the beginning of the journey and that we should therefore together plead for higher inflow requirements, so that the rotten apples do not flow in, so that they are kept under review and so that for that 99% that is doing well, not constantly that sword of Damocles "I can lose my business and thus my whole life"............................................................................................................................................................ Does the VVD agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u14	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u15	In that last, that sword of Damocles, I don't believe that. But I have a motion to deal with that. I think that if we have spent nine years working on a law, and if everyone in the industry, from the little one-pitter to the larger trade associations, says we want it, it can't be that the Chamber, in all its wisdom, says, well, you know what, I'm gonna break the sanction, I'm gonna think of an alternative, it's gonna come in here today at 11:00 and then we're gonna pass a law in that way. I don't think it's right to justify disrupting a nine-year trial in this way. I think we need to improve quality. We'll share that with each other. I'm also into influx requirements. This must indeed be reflected in the work done. But on the amendment you have just tabled with three other parties, I would like to say a few words in my further contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u16	Would you like to wait for that, Mr. Laçin, or would you like to ask another follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u17	No, no, no. I will come back later, if he has said anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u18	That's what I thought. Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u19	Does Mr Dijkstra conclude with me that the current sanction does not take the rotten apples out of the sector? That's a short, clear question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u20	The short answer is yes. What comes with this is that this law does start with that and offers opportunities to improve the industry. It would be a shame if, as a Chamber, you put aside all the proposals that come from the industry itself, because suddenly you would know how to do it better than the industry that has been doing it for nine years. I'm sorry to hear that. Then opt for the original law and continue to work from there instead of in fact mistreating that law and implementing it in a different way. It's a law, not a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u21	In my view, the profit is that after the first period, Mr Dijkstra is in his opinion that this sanction is not really a good thing. In any case, that is already a gain. That is why we have said: we have to come up with something. That's what we've done now. The suggestion put forward by the VVD today, namely that we, as other parties here in the Chamber, have destroyed the law, is absolutely incorrect. The penalty is still in place. We're only setting it up in a different way. And 95% to 99% of that law is just right. That's what we said to each other. It's just that sanction that's just not right. That's what we've been looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u22	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u23	It's a good way to do it. I do not understand why Mr Dijkstra has so much difficulty with our amendment when he now points out that the sanction is not good. That only regulates more for the industry. And that industry has been constantly at the table, so you are now suggesting that we have not spoken to the industry and that this amendment is just coming out of the sky... I don't know which stone you've been under in the last few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u24	You have certainly had conversations, but you have to look at all the parties that are active in them. I think it is good that I give my appreciation of the amendment. That amendment was tabled by the SP and supported and co-tabled by the PVV, D66 and the CDA. I believe that the amendment tabled by these parties does not make the law any better, quite the contrary. The VVD is and remains for a sanction. That means that if you keep showing that you're not fit, you can actually lose your authority. Without sanction, continuing training is what you propose, namely a wash-up nose. That leads to additional training and additional costs........................................................................................................................ These costs are also charged to the driving school holder and eventually to the student again, without anyone who has really proved unfit to do so being prevented. We'll put kids in the car, huh, 18-year-olds. Well, then we're assuming that's gonna happen right. If someone is unfit, he should simply be excluded from the industry, because of road safety and because he is dealing with young, vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u25	Is that all you want to say about the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u26	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u27	I immediately see a contradiction between what Mr Dijkstra has just said and what he is saying. We have just seen together that the current sanction is not working. Mr Dijkstra has also answered this by saying: yes, he is not working. And now, in response to our amendment, he says that he wants to hold on to a sanction that does not work. I think that's really weird. I also find it extremely difficult for Mr Dijkstra here to be a bit shabby about the driving school sector by saying that there are a lot of children or young people in the car with people who are not good. There are a few of them, and we all want to get them out, but in order to move the whole sector away like this, we have to be very careful about that. 99% is doing very well. And with our proposal, without sanctioning the withdrawal of jurisdiction, the law improves. But there is a penalty. Nor does the sanction go away; we impose another sanction, a financial one. Does Mr Dijkstra also see that he contradicts himself in two or three minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u28	No. It's very simple. Nine years of work has been done on proposals to improve the industry. We agree. I also agree with you that we certainly should not give the industry the wrong name. A lot happens well, integrity and fine, but you have to be able to filter some out. That is not possible with this sanction alone. That's not enough. It takes a lot more than that. This is a start. There will be an explanation of behavior, there will be a way of training and there will be a way to test it. The way you want it, without review, means that you can just go on the coffee, put down €200, go away and go on for six months. That's not the point. There's got to be some kind of sanction that's gonna have to stop someone at some point. That doesn't happen the first time or the second time. You could even think of special circumstances that would make the driving instructor not make it, which you can handle coulantly. I also have a hardness clause in front of me. But at some point you have to say, "Oh, man, if you really can't do it or you're just not doing it right or you don't have your vog," you shouldn't be able to be active in this sector. I want it to stop, too. In your way, someone can come and go every time and pay some money, then he can be sure for six months that he can do his job. I don't feel good about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u29	I really invite Mr Dijkstra to read the amendment properly again, because the practical guidance remains as it is. You're not getting anywhere on the coffee. Practice counseling stays, only the penalty changes if you don't make it. That does not mean that the practical guidance is "drinking a cup of coffee and getting out." I would therefore like to ask Mr Dijkstra once again why, despite the discussions over the last nine years, he is holding on to a sanction which we have both concluded does not work. Why is he so against this other proposal? We have thought about what could be an improvement proposal. I do not hear any other proposal from Mr Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u30	My other proposal? This is just the law that is before us, which is good and to which I add a hardness clause and on which I say a number of things, for example about the passport photo to know who you are dealing with. I have also tabled a number of amendments. That's the proposal I'm making. I'm improving the law. You're actually taking down the law a little bit. You say: you just go there, you open your book, you drink a cup of coffee, you give someone a hand and you can talk, but there's no further testing and you can just keep practicing your profession. That's fine with me, but after a second or a third time it has to be done. You shouldn't be able to buy it off that way, because that's no good to anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u31	Good. I'm already tasting a little repetition in the discussion, but I'm giving you the chance, Mr. Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make the following point. Last year, I believe, there have been 23 cases on some 11,000 or 15,000 driving school teachers. The numbers differ, but each time it comes down to a few on many thousands of driving school teachers. So what problem are we going to solve by stopping this sanction, while it makes the sector shudder? In our opinion, it is much more sensible to work on the front, as the PVV just outlined. In particular, throughout the driving instructor's career, we must ensure that he demonstrates quality through participation in a driving school register, for example. Do you share that route?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u33	You are all creating additional obstacles that are not in the law. It's possible. This makes things a little more complicated and at least a little more expensive. I think a law should work. It shouldn't be unnecessary. We also want low costs, but we want to guarantee quality. We all have a good heart for the sector, but we see that there are a number of problems. In any case, this law makes a start, namely the vog, the way in which you will conduct practical tests and the way in which you will be assessed. I'm glad there's that beginning. A review also includes: you can make it or you can't make it. It can't be that you can't make it and just keep going. I don't think that's gonna fit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u34	I regret that Mr Dijkstra is currently making a bit of a caricature of the amendment tabled. That is a pity, because the authors of that amendment have really tried to make it better. Moreover, it is a pity that this subject is being discussed in isolation, because the overall package of motions and amendments should lead to a higher quality. You say that it has been working for nine years and that this bill is therefore a good one. If it's all right, why are you making any motions at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u35	It is good that you have tried to listen to the sector. You're trying to make it better, too. I don't think you're making it any better. I've got two motions. We talked about it last time. I'd like to file it in a minute. A motion is about the passport photo. The old evidence had a passport photo on it. That new pass, that authority, it doesn't have it anymore. It seems quite easy to put on a passport, just like with some kind of ski pass or whatever, so you know who you're dealing with. I said, "It's Jan or it's John." There's a difference, but it might as well be his brother who doesn't think it's right for you. Secondly, I understand the concerns addressed by parties who have been at the table with you and with me. I shall now move on to my speech, because then I will finish it. I understand people who think they can suddenly lose their jobs. That's intense. I realize that. That's why I have a hardness clause. I say: if you fail for the first time, if that can happen, then you will indeed have a rematch. It may be that there are circumstances that make you fail. Then it would be very bad if you couldn't run your business or lose your job. That is why I want a hardness clause just like we do in the financial sector. For example, insurance intermediaries must also meet certain qualifications. But that's gonna end at some point. You can't keep re-launching without a sanction. You have to agree with me, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u36	The fact that there is no sanction at all is therefore not true. There is still a sanction. If you don't pass your exam, it's just that the license is revoked immediately. You're gonna have to take another exam every six months. That's a sanction, too. You are still bound by the fact that you simply need to be active and that you are willing to increase the quality. That's the penalty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u37	Yes, and then I can give you an annoying example of someone who has a driving school that isn't really a driving school. That person distributes drugs; driving. It lays down €200 for your mandatory refresher period, drinks a cup of coffee and can continue to do so for another six months. That's not what I'm here for. I'm in favour of improving the law. I have also tabled amendments to try to achieve this, including an evaluation clause to see if the changes we are making now have any effect. That also includes a horizon clause, because we have nothing to do with legislation that is not working. You'll agree with me. It also includes the passport photo. I don't want more rules. I want better rules. We need to be able to maintain it. As far as I am concerned, safety and quality are paramount. Then I have two more motions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u38	First, Mr Van Aalst may take a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u39	It really shouldn't get weirder. I think this is a real insult to us as colleagues. We come here with a decent proposal. We agree with each other, including Mr Dijkstra, that the sanction that is currently in place is not right. Then he's gonna put away our proposal as a braggart and come up with a ski pass himself. What's he thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u40	You're comparing two different things now. The current card doesn't have a passport photo. If it's on there, it'll only get better. Two: in the first term, you asked Mr von Martels if he would support the law if that sanction remained on it. At the time there was no sanction at all, and now I see in the amendment that there is some form of sanction. So you've learned a little bit since September 27th, but unfortunately you haven't arrived yet. I would say: choose the original proposal. We're gonna see what the Minister thinks about your amendment from these four parties. I'd say look at all the motions on their merits. Then I'll do the same, and then we'll see where we end up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u41	The only profit I hear from the VVD is that it is in any case wise to read our amendment again in a moment, because it is a good quality proposal that we are doing here, precisely in order to meet the quality of this sector and the industry associations. It would be a credit to Mr Dijkstra of the VVD simply to look seriously at it and not to dismiss it as a gossip or to talk about lifting the sanction and breaking the law. Then you're really shorting us out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u42	Then it is a pity that the Bovag, the VRB, the FAM and the IBKI all criticize what you presented this morning. That's pretty amazing, actually, if it were all that good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u43	Mr. Sienot, the arguments have already been widely exchanged. I would like to hear Mr Dijkstra's motions and if you still really want to do so, you may ask one more question at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u44	I'll save it for my own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u45	Very nice. Mr. Dijkstra, you continue your argument with the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u46	I also understand the colleagues who are asking me now. I understand that very well, Mr President, because they have put energy into it. However, I note that the final result of Mr Sienot's amendment on the VVD is insufficient. And then I'd rather choose the original law. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is no passport photo on the driver's instructor's certificate (i.e. the licence pass, the WRM card) and that it requires a student to ask for both the driving instructor's pass and the driver's ID;]] [[Whereas it is desirable for pupils to be able to easily verify the competence of an instructor;]] [[Whereas the Minister is currently consulting IBKI and the CBR on how to make this easier for pupils;]] [[considers that a photograph on the certificate makes it easy to verify and can thus prevent unauthorised teaching by driving instructors;]] [[invites the Government, on the basis of these consultations, to come up with a proposal for an easy way for pupils to check the certificate, such as requiring a passport photograph of the holder of the certificate, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34182-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u47	The other motion deals with distressing cases of continuing training, the hardness clause. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the consequences of failure to pass the necessary test for driving school instructors may have significant consequences, such as loss of work and even business;]] [[Whereas it may also be possible for a driving school instructor to fail a second examination due to unforeseen circumstances, for example due to illness or other personal circumstances;]] [[calls on the government to adopt a hardness clause or clause in law and regulation before the summer of 2019. to include exemption for distressing cases in the Motor Vehicle Training Act 1993,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34182-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u48	Yes, Chairman, a question to my colleague from the VVD. What does that hardness clause mean? Does this mean that we will remove the sword of Damocles for distressing cases? So we'll still take the sanction off? Is that what you're saying in your motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u49	If you fail the first time and then you don't succeed the second time, there can always be a reason for it. Then you can find in conversation that it is actually very sad or very sad that it is not possible for someone to do their job. I'll make an exception. That is what this hardness clause means. In other sectors where people have to meet demands, you see it too. Of course, that goes on the basis of coulance and in good conversation with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u50	Thank you, Mr. Dijkstra. Mr von Martels has the floor on behalf of the Christian Democrat Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u51	Thank you, Mr President. During the first period, we had a good discussion, in which everyone in the Chamber showed an enormous involvement in the driving school industry. Between the first term and now the second term I have had all the possibilities and used to speak to players in the field. This showed that the interests of the sector are well represented. Our task, however, is to weigh up all these interests as best we can and then to make our own judgement. It is our view that we agree with the proposal that has just been tabled by Mr Laçin and strongly support that amendment. This amendment is in line with what I put forward in the first period. Then I said, as far as we are concerned, the five-year obligation remains. Failure to take part in this process means disqualification from teaching. The aim of continuing training should be to improve the quality of driving lessons and the sanction of withdrawal of the licence should be removed during the examination. I have made that very clear. Those were my words during the first term. I also advocated stricter admission requirements and asked whether it would be possible to require a minimum of five years of driving experience for start-ups. That motion will shortly be put forward by Mr Sienot. He will also make a plea for a quality register. I'm wrong. Mr Laçin will do so and Mr Sienot makes a plea for a quality register. We will wholeheartedly support both motions. Finally, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to a very good discussion in order to come up with a comprehensive legislative proposal very warmly for the past period. Although at times there was a difference of opinion, there has always been a constructive and respectful discussion. Let us hope that I also express this expectation that the amendment and the motions that have been tabled together will improve the quality in full width. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u52	Thank you. Mr Van Aalst has the floor on behalf of the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For 95% there is a good law for this. It's just that 5% isn't right yet. There is the sanction that is disproportionate as far as we are concerned. That is why we have tabled an amendment. This amendment will give a quality boost to this law. The overall package of the amendment and the motions leads to a good, balanced law and opportunities for the future. I therefore have the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a driving instructor may compile his own training programme from optional components;]] [[noting that the institutions providing further training to driving instructors are not certified;]] [[Whereas compulsory part-time training can promote road safety, such as legislation, new technologies and new road signs;]] [[Whereas a certificate provides a qualitative opinion on the competence of the educational establishment;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the sector, to introduce mandatory elements of theoretical further training and to have this theoretical further training provided by institutions designated by the IBKI as certified,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Aalst, Mr von Martels, Mr Laçin and Mr Sienot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34182-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u54	Then the second and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas several quality impulses are given by the (associated) Amendment to the Road Driving Education Act 1993;]] [[Whereas it is important to keep a finger on the wrist to see if the quality impulses have the desired effects;]] [[calls on the Government to send to the Chamber an annual quality monitor of the (associated) Amendment to the Motor Vehicle Education Act 1993;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Aalst, Mr von Martels, Mr Laçin and Mr Sienot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34182-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u55	I would like to put a question to the PVV as co-author of the amendment. I quote from the explanatory statement of the amendment you sent this afternoon. Firstly, the period of validity of the licence shall be extended by six months each. And further down: the driving instructor can thus continue to stand up for rematch without losing his instruction. My question is whether you would put your own child in the car with such a driving instructor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u56	I've had a lot of contact with all those driving school holders lately. When I look at how well that sector is doing, what great quality that people deliver and how they would deal with my children, I have no doubt about that. The proposed amendment ensures that hard-working entrepreneurs are not killed by VVD policies. That is what we have tried to change here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u57	Thank you. Mr Sienot is now the last speaker from the Chamber to speak on behalf of the Democrats 66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The whole point is, of course, how we're going to improve the driving school industry. In our view, this is about putting our hands on it together, the Empire and the sector, and ensuring further professionalisation, because I fully agree with the previous speakers that everyone wants it to be. We do not achieve this with the current draconian measure of the sanction, as it has been completed. You can lose your entire business and your family income, and that's why we think it's a good idea to change that sanction. In its present form, it is disproportionate and if only it would do what it should do, as was just outlined, namely filter out that drug dealer that the VVD repelled about... But it can now! By the way, I'd say you don't even have to be a driving teacher to be a drug dealer, but this aside. It's not my business. What I do know is that we're not filtering it now. That has got me thinking, because we also see that non-committality in the training process does not contribute to greater road safety. We fully agree with the Minister. That is why we can support the SP amendment, but, as I said, it came in at 11 p.m. A critical consideration shows that there is an important point missing, and that is the point of compulsory tutoring. If you want to make things better, if you've taken lessons and if you've done practical guidance and it shows that you don't master certain facets of the game well, then you have to work on that. That is what we think, and that is why we think it is a compulsory tutoring. The whole story of the costs is also a bit different. You'll soon be talking about $500 if you didn't participate once. That's what you come up with when you also count the loss of income because you can't teach and when you count on people having to pay for the practical guidance. I then assume about €50 per lesson. So you are talking about a different amount than €200. And if you don't do it twice, as was outlined, you already talk about €1,000. I don't know, but the riders I talk to don't say, "Oh, boy, I'm laughing. I'll pay that $1,000; what do I care?" That is a world that I do not think is so richly sown in the Netherlands. Well, what's richly sown are the people who are worried and who are shudderingly going to do this play. Then they're taking stress exams. It's no use! And if it were to lead to an improvement in the sector, but we have not seen that either. The whole idea for us is that instructors are focused on improvement. When they fail for the practical guidance, we can work on this by asking for a targeted tutoring course. That will cost them both hassle and I have just outlined it as well as money. That is why we believe that a sanction in this way will contribute to further professionalisation. Moreover, let us not forget that to a large extent we are dealing with professionals. They passed their exams once. They just got their paper. They didn't just do that, they showed the skills. Let's not forget that! I would also like to stress this very strongly here. If we look at that whole, we already know from the first period that we don't filter out the rotten apples but that we mainly take out stress-sensitive and other unlucky ones. That is why we support the direction of redesigning the sanction, namely without disproportionate measures which will allow good driving instructors to leave the driving school industry. Furthermore, I shall then make my motion, Mr President-in-Office, that we must make demands on the person who presents himself as a qualitative driving instructor. I have prepared a motion on a driving school register for that, but I am waiting until after the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u59	Just to make sure I understand, Mr. Chairman. You're gonna get your paper, and you're gonna have to stand up for a test like that. You won't make it, but, yeah, that's okay, because it's gonna be extended by six months anyway. It doesn't matter whether you succeed or not. But who's gonna check it out? And two, how does a student who gets into the car with such a driving school holder know whether he is indeed in an in-service training course or has really succeeded? How does a student know?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u60	That's why I'm attached to that driving school register, which is what my motion is all about. You can take these things into account, but I think it is more important to note that we are dealing with someone who is just a good driving school teacher but will have to improve on certain points. Hence the compulsory tutoring. If you don't, you're gonna lose your instruction. So there is certainly an incentive to do so. In my opinion, it should be possible to follow that someone, if he has not successfully completed his practical guidance on a number of parts at the moment x, has or has not taken up again six months later and has completed tutoring. I'd say that's checkable. If you check for that, you can take these people out and pull their jacket. If they don't, they're gonna lose their instruction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u61	Finalizing, Mr. Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u62	It is to be checked, says Mr Sienot. But you'd better get in the car with the wrong guy. You'll only be 18 years old, you'll have saved up some money from your parents. You picked one on the Internet, but it turns out it's the wrong one. And then what? Then who's gonna check it out? Who's protecting this student? No one in your proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u63	Well, that's very interesting, because that's already the case. That's the whole point. I would like to say to Mr Dijkstra: what have we done with this sanction to create a fine world in which these kinds of cases do not occur? But there isn't, and that's the point. I'd like to leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u64	Good. And you're going to file your motion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u65	It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas good driving instructors train drivers who participate safely in traffic;]] [[Whereas the driving school industry aims at professional driving schools offering high-quality driving lessons;]] [[Whereas social and technological developments impose new requirements on driving instructors;]] [[Whereas a quality register in other sectors is already contributing satisfactorily to maintaining the quality of professional activity;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, together with the sector, the possibilities for a driving school register and to inform the Court of Justice of this in the spring note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sienot, Mr von Martels, Mr Laçin and Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34182-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u66	Thank you. I look forward to the continuation of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u67	Thank you. Eight motions have been tabled and two amendments on which the Minister will have to give his opinion in the second term. There may be other amendments, but at least I have seen them. The Minister needs a little time to prepare for that. We're suspending the meeting for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u68	The next item is the government's second term of office on the legislative proposal Amendment of the Motor Vehicle Training Act 1993. The Minister for Infrastructure and Water State has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u69	Infrastructure and Water State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u70	Infrastructure and Water State. Sorry, I'm old school.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u71	We know what you mean, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Members of Parliament for their input. I have not heard any new questions, so I would simply like to pass the amendments and the motions. The Laçin amendment to point No. 18 is actually still a bit the pièce de résistance of this meeting, because it sees in the section on sanctions. I very much appreciate that the Chamber has also wanted to tackle my outstretched hand again and that it has wanted to seek a solution by giving it an alternative interpretation. But now comes the "but." I think that the amendment as it stands is too much going on on the other side. What we are talking about in the current situation is the withdrawal of competence after seven days, and that was our proposal to make it eight weeks. I thought it was a very heavy instrument, and I agree with you. You said that you still really thought it was a sword of Damocles and that you wanted to see an alternative to it. What I see now makes me feel like we're going very far the other way. I heard Mr. Sienot talking about education. In any case, the present form ahead of us, I think, is too weak an alternative to the very firm sanction we had with those eight weeks. So the way things are now, I'd like to advise against it. Once again, it has been proposed to have a six-month extension. That's pretty easy to avoid by doing it every six months. I don't think that's very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u72	Indeed, I do not think that our proposal, the amendment, comes entirely as a surprise to the Minister. In the first period, almost two months ago, four parties indicated their desire to remove the sanction in its present form. This was not necessarily the seven-day or eight-week period, but simply the penalty, i.e. the fact that the instruction can be withdrawn, linked to the practical guidance. This proposal would go too far in the opposite direction. But this amendment is based on a different principle, partly on the discussions we have had. We say here with five parties that the sanction does not work in its present form. And seven days or eight weeks the penalty will not change in terms of form, in terms of instrument. So we say, trust us now. We come up with a lot of improvements, including in our motions, because we are really convinced that they will help the sector. In our view, the sector is being helped by the quality register, the vog, the requirement that the licence is valid for another five years, and you name it. I would really like to invite the Minister to look at the amendment in that light and not, for a moment, what this amendment is doing. Of course, that is important, because we want to get rid of this sanction. Let that be clear. The question is simply whether the Minister wishes to oversee the total number of motions and thus give a different assessment of the value of this amendment. That it goes too far, of course I do not agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u73	I also did not expect Mr Laçin to suddenly say: oh well, then eh...? I don't have that experience, no. I consider this amendment to be an amendment. That is what I am going to do with all the other motions and amendments. If I look at this amendment as it stands, I will say: in this form I am not suggesting it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u74	I heard the Minister mention my name, so I am invited to explain it briefly. The amendment now before us goes a little too far for the Minister's taste. I can imagine. When I read it cold and read the reflection on it, I also thought: this goes too far. That is why I said in my speech: let us now ensure that there is at least compulsory tutoring. You didn't get something, you gotta get better, and you're gonna get on with it. Apart from the fact that you do have your paper, you have to learn. I would like to add that compulsory training. This makes it a lot more spicy and even less non-committal. Does the Minister share this view?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u75	Anything that can make it less noncommittal, I welcome. Again, I find this really weak. Nine years ago, you had a majority in the Chamber who said, after seven days, we're gonna withdraw your entire jurisdiction with your whole have and chop. I share with you that that was extremely difficult. But if you suddenly get into that situation... Once again, I agree with everyone who says that the majority of people are really in good faith and will not want to extend it every six months. On the other hand, I regret the possibility that people could buy it off. I'm really looking for a slightly firmer sanction, so we can guarantee the quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u76	I do not have the illusion that I can change the Minister's mind at the moment. I would like to ask the Minister if she is prepared to look again at how it is regulated in other professions. In most occupational groups where further training is required, your license is not simply withdrawn if you do not pass your exam. Then you get the opportunity every time... In the care of the BIG register it does not go in the same way as in the driving school industry. Take another look at other professions. I think that will be enlightening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u77	I don't think I can be blamed for not thinking with your room. I didn't stick out for nothing, either. I'm just judging the amendment on its merits. I am about to do the same with the other amendments and the motions. There are also several suggestions for improvement, and in several places I can leave the judgment to your Chamber. Once again, as this amendment is now before us, I think it is very far from what we ourselves had proposed. I am open to any further changes, but I do not think it is enough at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u78	The minister indeed started with the fact that it was very difficult: seven days that sword of Damocles. But the way it is now, after eight weeks, that sword of Damocles still hangs over those people. We have confidence in that sector. That is why the amendment is before us for another method. We're still in favour of a sanction, but we're only going to fill it out another way. This means that in this case we are going to help unlucky birds who normally fall out of the boat, lose their instructional skills, lose their jobs and perhaps lose everything they have left, because that brought in their salary every month. We're not gonna get some bad apples out of this bill. We'll do it in front. Whether it is an amended proposal or not, the Minister must agree with us that we cannot leave the Damocles sword hanging over the heads of the driving school industry. The Minister shouldn't want that, should he? Then you don't go from seven days to eight weeks. You just take that out, and you solve it in a proper way, as we have done in the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u79	That is why, in the first period, because I saw that eight weeks is still quite fast, I expressed the willingness to fill in the penalty in a different way as you did. If you do have to show up every six months, there is a kind of deterrent effect and there are also costs involved. I share that with you, but I think it is still too far removed from the sanction that we had in mind and which we discussed in broad consultation with the sector. So if there's anything else you could do about it, I might be able to come to another judgment. But again, I think this is just too skinny.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u80	In conclusion, Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u81	We're probably not gonna agree. We note that Damocles' sword must simply be removed. I believe that we have formulated this in a very neat way in this amendment without taking the sanction out of the law. I think it will help the industry if you treat the industry in a proper way, a confidential way, which simply delivers a great quality. Then all you have to do is make sure it gets better. I'm gonna stick with it. We're gonna get some bad apples out the front. We shouldn't settle that in this law now, and we're not gonna settle that in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u82	The Minister, concluding on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u83	I think we're all constructive in this, and I appreciate that. That's how I look at it. I'm also willing to think about this further. But the fact that at the end of the day the ultimate sanction can never be used, I think that is quite something. There's still a lot in between. That you then only, I say disrespectfully, have to take your ride every six months and that you can get away with that only malicious one, I find again very sad. So, well...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u84	Good. No, Mr. Van Aalst. We've talked enough about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u85	No. I have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u86	I don't think that's a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u87	Yes, I do. If you call an amendment that has been really thought about here, which has been discussed with the industry and which has been worked hard behind the scenes disrespectful and then actually says: gosh...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u88	Then you didn't listen carefully. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u89	Mr. Chairman. What the minister just suggested here is just not right. We've just made a proper proposal. And if you keep suggesting that it was a game, as if it were some roulette game with €200 on the table and that you can continue with six months, you really don't do justice to what the Chamber is presenting here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u90	I really didn't say that. I said "if I disrespectfully formulate it." I didn't say for a single moment that I found your proposal disrespectful or whatever. I would say: read the Acts again. I didn't say that. I didn't mean that. I appreciated your Chamber just at the beginning. It is not for nothing that I have wanted to offer you this opportunity to come up with an alternative of my own. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 16 by Mr Dijkstra. It actually calls for an evaluation within five years of the entry into force of the law. I think that's always a good idea. And regardless of what we come up with, in any way of imposing sanctions, it is always wise to evaluate that. So I can give a ruling on that, Room. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 15 by Mr Dijkstra. That's about the passport photo on the WRM certificate. I must advise against this amendment, because it simply cannot be done because of the General Data Protection and Privacy Regulation. There must be a very good reason for that, so I don't see any possibilities for that. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 17, also by Mr Dijkstra, on the expiry of the Vog-obligatory obligation when it appears after the assessment in five years' time that it was not efficient enough. I would also advise against this amendment, because I would actually like to take this aspect into account in Mr Dijkstra's amendment on an overall assessment where I wanted to give my opinion to the Chamber. I think it is very useful that we include the subject of the vog, whether it has an effect or not. Then I'll get to the motions. The first motion is that in part No. 19 by Mr Laçin, signed by a number of his colleagues. It calls for a change in the form of practical guidance so that it is more practical and less predictable. We are actually already taking the first steps, but I would like to see this as a support to further shape this. So I can give a judgment room on this. Then I come to the motion on part No. 20. It asks the government to look at a five-year requirement, the requirement to have a five-year licence in advance. I would also like to explore that possibility with the industry, so I can give a ruling to Chamber. Then I come to the motion on part No. 21. It invites the government to take steps together with the sector to make ghost driving schools impossible and to tackle driving schools that do so. That's a very tough assignment. I would like to take it as if I were just going to see with the sector what we can do to deal with this. So I do not know whether we can take steps, but I do say to you the willingness to see what we can do. So with that restriction, I can give her judgment room. Then I come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Remco Dijkstra on part No. 22. He also looks at the passport photo, but he asks that, on the basis of the consultation, a proposal be made for an easier way for students to check the certificate, such as making a passport photo compulsory but possibly other matters. He asked to examine the possibilities and to inform the Court of Justice about them. I can give a ruling on that, too, Room. Then I come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Remco Dijkstra on part No. 23. It requires a hardness clause or a hardness clause. exemption for distressing cases. In fact, it is always important, in all laws and regulations, to have such a clause, so I can also give it Chamber judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u91	There is a question by Mr Laçin on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u92	Through you, President, and through the Minister also to Mr Dijkstra. Then I would like to know what these distressing cases are in this motion and who checks whether they are really poignant. That's what I'd like to know to appreciate this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u93	The Minister responds to this. I am not going to give Mr Dijkstra the chance to do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u94	Almost every scheme is not able to define in advance what distressing cases look like. In this case, of course, it is about the examples that you have mentioned, such as long-term illness, which just made things go wrong. That could be an example of such a poignant case that we are talking about here. The Van Aalst c.s. motion. in piece No. 24 invites the Government, together with the sector, to establish mandatory elements of theoretical training and to have such further training provided by institutions certified. I can give a ruling on that, too, Room. I will always see, together with IBKI....................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then we will also look at the certification of teachers. Then I come to the motion-Van Aalst c.s. in piece No. 25. It calls for an annual quality monitor to be set up. I'd like to dissuade them. I've promised the evaluation, but to do a monitor every year... You can't say anything that fast. We will, of course, follow it, but I think that a separate annual monitor is a little too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u95	In particular, the gap is a little between the proposal that was just put forward in five years and a year's time. I understand the Minister says a year might be too much. It's almost administratively impossible to do that. We do not want to impose administrative burdens, but if we are not going to do anything for another five years, that seems to me to be a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u96	Shall I resolve it in such a way that I undertake to inform the Chamber, halfway through that period, after two and a half years, on how it will work out until then, without committing ourselves to a monitor every two years or so many years? Shall I inform you in the meantime? The great evaluation comes after five years, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u97	I see Mr Van Aalst nodding, but does that affect the motion? Are you gonna keep that on? You're moving it in?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u98	Or can he live with this promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u99	In my view, this is a commitment that we can live with, so I can withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u100	Since the motion-Van Aalst c.s. (, No ) has been withdrawn, is no longer a matter of procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u101	Yes. That is a motion by Mr von Martels. It calls for research into the quality and possibilities of a driving school register. I'm willing to do that investigation. We are already in consultation with the industries. I'd like to give Chamber judgment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u102	Thank you. I welcome that in itself, but it is a motion by Mr Sienot with my name on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u103	Oh. Excuse me, excuse me. Yeah, I see it now. At the top is Mr. Sienot. Honor to all who deserve credit. Then I'm going to give Mr. Sienot's motion of censure Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u104	Thank you very much, Minister. I would also like to thank the Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-21-tweedekamer-9.u106	We are going to vote on the motions and amendments tabled next Tuesday 27 November.
