ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u1	We will continue with the debate on the Marrakesh Immigration Pact. I now give the floor to Mr Fritsma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u2	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Never before has the Netherlands been sent to the abyss as quickly as under the Rutte III cabinet. Truly all immigration records have been broken, not even among weird left coalitions but under a coalition whose VVD is the largest party. The borders are being opened even further, because the UN Migration Pact, which we are talking about today, is a major appeal for even more immigration. It is also a major appeal to give migrants more rights and even more protection. At the same time, the United Nations also has a major role to play in our foreign policy, after far too much control has already been given to the European Union. I don't understand. Mr. Chairman. This terrible Marrakesh Pact says that all forms of migration must be promoted and facilitated: labour migration, partner and family migration and so on. The cabinet is about to embrace that whole text. In this way, the United Nations' foreign pro-mass immigration vision is also the vision of the cabinet. Then the cabinet attaches itself to that terrible text, regardless of its legal consequences. Of course, that alone is unacceptable. This is an open invitation to all migrants. They are again confirmed in their idea that everything is possible here and everything can be achieved: residence permits, benefits, homes; come back to the Netherlands, because here it is all for picking up. That is, first and foremost, the poisonous message of this Secretary of State and of this cabinet. At least countries that do not support this pact do not issue this open invitation. This cowardly cabinet should have joined these countries, because those countries are opposed to the pact and do not want to explain the red carpet to everyone. So these countries are no longer at the top of the list of migrants and smugglers. Now the cabinet of its own free will is putting into effect a suicide pact, because in the Netherlands, unfortunately, immigration is equivalent to the large-scale import of Islam. Our freedom, our democracy and our core values are rapidly being exchanged for the evil and violent Islamic ideology, an ideology that completely destroys our free Western society. We watch it happen on the street every day. Jews can't go out on the street with a yarmulke anymore. Women are being harassed. Whole city districts are terrorized by riot youngsters who have absolutely nothing with the Netherlands. Moroccan and Algerian criminals rob all together around asylum seekers' centres. The cabinet is even responsible for letting Islamic terrorists in. See, for example, that knife puller from Syria who stuck here in The Hague on the necks of three random passers-by. Russian roulette, that is what the cabinet plays with the security of Dutch people. The Marrakesh suicide pact will only make it worse. What has the Cabinet got to support this? It's pure and total capitulation. Mr. Chairman. Dutch judges will also make use of this agreement. That's what I'm saying right now. There's no stopping it with an extra statement. The text of this pact remains exactly the same. It will be used by foreign lawyers too often. For example, the agreement says that the vulnerability of migrants must be taken into account. This will, of course, be used and completed in all possible ways. A form of vulnerability of the migrant concerned will be found in each residence case. There is no guarantee that Dutch judges will not give any weight to this. In fact, in the letter of 30 November of this State Secretary, the cabinet itself admits that judges can be inspired by international documents such as this pact. The Secretary of State admits it himself. Remember that in the Netherlands we are dealing with judges who even treat an Afghan rapist with a much too low sentence because otherwise he might be expelled. That's all there is to it. The cabinet will continue to support this pact. Prime Minister Rutte also said weeks ago that it is in the interests of the Netherlands. "In the interests of the Netherlands"; how do you make it up? It is clear that this cabinet is inexcusably squandering the Dutch interest. This capitulation cabinet should disappear as soon as possible. The Dutch citizen should be liberated as soon as possible. Then a motion of censure is the only answer. That is why the PVV Group has also strongly supported it. I can leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u4	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Sometimes there is a box of pills that someone should take: read the package leaflet first. If you do so, then, not that I have experience with it, but I have heard it; this to reassure colleagues, sometimes it says what you can do to prevent nasty and unintentional side effects. That image came to me when I learned about the package leaflet that the cabinet wants to add to this bitter pill. We read the package leaflet carefully and then swallow the bitter pill called the migration pact. The cabinet will explain that one more time. It doesn't reassure us. First of all, in our opinion, the content of the package leaflet is not in line with the content of the migration pact. Moreover, the cabinet is not about the text of the package leaflet. Well, it's about it, but it's not competent to add a package leaflet. The manufacturer of the migration pact, this pill, is the international community. This was just a metaphor opening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u5	Can Mr Bishop mention one example of a pill whose effect is changed by the package leaflet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u6	No, but that's not what I mean to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u7	Then we have clarity about that. A package leaflet can never change the way a pill works. In fact, he may at most warn of it, but if a pill is toxic, it remains so, regardless of what is in the package leaflet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u8	Yes. I am pleased that Mr Baudet and I are beginning to understand each other. That's exactly what I said. That package leaflet warns. It indicates what you could do to prevent annoying side effects that might have the substances contained in the pill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u9	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u10	Mr. Chairman. There is a lot of discussion about whether or not this migration pact is binding. In a limited sense, it is simply clear and there is no discussion possible: the migration pact is not a treaty, point. But the discussion should focus on the scope of the so-called soft law, namely international policy and mutual understanding. I think that Mr Baudet has a point to make here. The government now declares that the Migration Pact is a form of global governance, a policy instrument for global governance. It is fascinating that, according to the cabinet, the pact is mainly a diplomatic instrument. Does this seem to explicitly acknowledge that it can still have a broader effect? The cabinet contradicts this, but let me remind you of an example. It wouldn't be the first time. I recall the discussions about bed, bath and bread for illegal immigrants. In 2009, the European Social Rights Committee condemned the Dutch policy to exclude illegal foreigners from the right of reception. In the annex to the European Social Charter, it was consciously stated that the rights only apply to foreigners who are legally resident. The cabinet then proudly wrote in response to that statement by the European Social Rights Committee that the opinion of the Committee was, I quote, 'legally non-binding'. In the meantime, we can see that the Dutch course for the reception of illegal foreigners has changed as a result. It is not imaginary that this development should also be based on the migration pact, I ask the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet writes that the migration pact does not create new rights or obligations. But that is a debatable statement given the example I have just mentioned. That's not a meaningless example. The Pact states that there may be differences between illegal foreigners and a regular migrant. But when it comes to basic services, it explicitly states that the status of migrants is not relevant. This is indeed a new line in relation to our legislation which excludes illegal immigrants from basic services such as education, care and non-necessary care. Does the government recognise that the explanation of basic provisions can be extended in the long term by this pact? Mr. Chairman. The SGP sees in the Pact too little balance between the interests of the various countries. Returns are also mainly about the rights of migrants. In passing, however, the obligation to include nationals is mentioned, but there is no additional commitment on this point. Let us be specific with a very specific question. I don't mean that as annoying, but as a case. What is the point of this pact if the Netherlands wants to deport an illegal Moroccan young man to Marrakesh? Is the cabinet sure that from next year Morocco will want to take back refuse nationals? Madam President. The SGP is keen to support a migration pact that works towards better control of migration flows. We wholeheartedly agree with the Members who say that this could no longer be done and that something had to be done. That's right. Something had to happen. A pact with which both the Netherlands and the countries of origin of illegal migrants are better off: that is what we want. The solution at present is not a package leaflet, but taking more time to achieve a better text and better, more balanced agreements in the international community. Haste rush is rarely good, Mr. Chairman. The SGP does not like that the Netherlands chokes on this pill because we have not taken the possible side effects seriously enough. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u11	I have a question for Mr Bishop. In the run-up to this debate, he has shown a strong opposition to this pact. He said that this pact does not distinguish between regular and irregular, between legal and illegal migrants. I have read very carefully the answers to those 100 questions. I have also reread the answer to Question 79. I have read that paragraph 15 states that sovereignty is maintained and that Member States are allowed to make a distinction. I am doing it in Dutch at the request of the chairman..... between regular and irregular migration statuses, i.e. between legal and illegal migration. How could Mr Bishop have said so firmly in the media that this distinction is not guaranteed and defined in the Pact?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u12	It's very simple. This is one of the examples I am referring to when I say that the contents of the Cabinet's package leaflet are not entirely in line with the content of the Pact. I am referring, for ease of reference, to paragraph 4. It says literally: "This Global Compact refers to migrants and presents a cooperative framework addressing migration in all its dimensions." I'm sorry about English, Mr. Chairman, but this is really there. No distinction is therefore made. Legal and illegal migrants are therefore entitled to the same rights. That is not further differentiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u13	With all due respect, Mr Bishop has really read the whole treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u14	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u15	There he constantly comes across the distinction between the rights of legal migrants and their protection and, of course, the universal rights of the people who apply to every migrant. Mr Bishop has a point there. Universal rights apply whether you're legal or non-legal. Everyone has the right to privacy, security and protection. That's also in the compact. But these are other rights, and that is where the compact makes a very clear distinction between the basic provisions that Mr Bishop is talking about. Because then you must be legal in the Netherlands, unless you get bed-bath bread from the municipalities. Mr Bishop has a point there, but you have to be an asylum seeker who can't go back. That is another very different compact that we may come to talk about later. That's not what this compact is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u16	I fully agree with that last point. This is not about refugees, because then we have a completely different discussion. Only, I strongly disagree with Mr Voordewind that a systematic distinction would be made between illegal migrants, such as rejected asylum seekers, rejected foreigners, foreigners who are not admitted, and foreigners who have legal status. That is not sufficiently worked out. Anyway, the Secretary of State may come and convince me, and then I will return to my steps. Honestly, I can't read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u17	Finally, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u18	Because it was unclear to Mr Bishop, the cabinet answered precisely this question. That's answer 79. It states that a distinction is made between basic services provided, between irregular residence and regular residence. So you should have known about this. You repeat your text now, but you should have known this. Your whole construction towards this debate was based on this argument. But what will be left of that if we get the distinction clearly indicated in the answers and once again in the compact?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u19	I have not been able to read that in the written answer to that question. Anyway, I'd like the Secretary of State to clarify that. In the event of interruption, I would like to ask for a further explanation. Moreover, it is a misunderstanding that our objection would be mainly or solely based on the disappearance of the distinction between illegal and legal migration. There are many more objections, including that this paves the way for smugglers. This only makes it more attractive to go into that business, no matter how bad it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u20	We know the SGP as a party that always goes for pure reasoning in this Chamber and is in favour of correct representation. You could say that textexegesis at the SGP is in good hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u21	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u22	If it says in paragraph 4 'a framework for migration in all its dimensions', can Mr Bishop not say that it says 'immigrants in all their variants'? That is not a reasonable explanation of the text anymore, is it? He's just gonna be talking nonsense, isn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u23	I agree with Mr Grothuizen that a clear distinction should then be made between the types of migrants. And that's exactly what doesn't happen. That is what I find treacherous about this pact, not to mention the refined one. It seems a pretty reasonable thing. Only, if you read a little further and wonder what happens when this is applied, it turns out to be not a solution, but rather to increase problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u24	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u25	In any case, it is a gain that Mr Bishop says that his reading is incorrect. I find it regrettable, however, that he repeats it first in a debate and then, only when I ask, will he say: there is a point you have. The whole point of this pact is that it is trying to distinguish between people who come regularly and irregularly. We're just trying to keep people from coming irregularly. So I also think that Mr Bishop has misread the rest of the compact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u26	I do not agree with Mr Grothuizen that I admit that I have read badly on this point; in no way. If you read correctly, you can read a certain exegesis in Article 4. It seems plausible at first sight. Then you read the other articles in the pact, and that distinction turns out to be insufficient and unclear. Or in my view: not or hardly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u27	I'd like to get back to that. To be honest, his letter from today's Dutch daily, the ND, surprised me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u28	A column.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u29	It has not only to do with a distinction between legal and illegal; that has just been answered. The question that is being asked is actually about return policy. It is stated that there is actually nothing about return policy on immigrants. But if you look at Objective 21, on section 21.37, isn't that all about return and reassignment policy? Doesn't it say that there is an obligation for states to receive their own nationals back? I simply do not understand this question, nor do I understand the fact that it is so questioned by the SGP. I know the SGP as a party which, when it comes to this issue, is critical and rightly so, because so are we. But I was surprised that the SGP took such a quick stand on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u30	That has nothing to do with bias. This has to do with the study of the Pact. Once again this is an example of a seemingly neat arrangement, but let me say it very kindly in a totally inadequate way. Look, the problem isn't legal migrants. If they want to return, fine; that needs to be arranged. But that is not the problem. The problem is illegal migrants. Hence my question, through the case, to the Secretary of State. Let's say we're dealing with an illegal migrant, a rejected asylum seeker, who has to go back. What's going on? How can it be sent back to the country of origin under the regime of this Pact? Well, I'm very curious about that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u31	Finally, Mr President. Mr Bishop cannot deny that what Mr Bishop said earlier is not correct, namely that no distinction is made between legal and illegal. That is very clear in point 15. But it is also about return and the obligation of states, regardless of what effect it has and whether it is really effective, because I have those concerns too, and I want to put those questions as well. But it does say it, doesn't it? So what you said, that it wouldn't be there, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u32	I thought that in reply to Mr Voordewind I had sufficiently explained how I see it. I therefore await the answer or response of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u33	I'd like to get back to that. I understand that Mr Bishop and I, as Catholic, usually read writings quite differently. But in this case, it is quite remarkable, because it says so specifically that countries can make a distinction, because then there is something so specific about their own rule of law, and because it is further described that countries I am going to try to translate their "own policy and own urgency" into certain matters. So why does the SGP insist that none of that can be done, if it's just specific?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u34	It is good to read Article 15 again. It indeed refers to human rights and all these things, and it talks about various forms of migration. However, I would argue that we should also read Article 16 in full, and look at the objectives set out in it, which should lead to safe, orderly and regular migration. That's just not what it says anymore. We can say that this is done in Article 15, but the rest of the pact does not, in fact, do so, or is grossly inadequate. There no distinction is made between regular and illegal migrants. That is what the criticism focuses on. By the way, thank you for your compliment that we are known as good exegetes. I'd say take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u35	I'd like to, but in this case, the SGP is asking me over. In Article 15, this is not for nothing. That is the way in which all the things that come after must be read. It is a very clear statement that countries can make their own distinction between regular and irregular and that people are allowed to define their own policies, as well as their own urgency and priorities. This is then repeated in the conclusion of this Pact. So the issues that the SGP has so many problems with are actually embraced, because a country can make a distinction and it is not binding. It then concludes with the remark that countries are allowed to define their own policies. If the SGP really wants to read critically, read well critically.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u36	I can keep repeating it: of course, Article 15 states that states are sovereign, are competent to distinguish between regular and irregular migration. That's what it says. But then it says that every form of migration must strive for certain objectives, such as giving access to basic services. And that's where the distinction is no longer made. That's true. That's what Article 16 says. It's really there! There's nothing else I can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u37	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Then I will go to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks. Sit down, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u38	Oh, Mr. Azarkan has had six interruptions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u39	Well, more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u40	I'll let him borrow one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u41	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u42	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u43	Mr. Baudet, why are you running?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u44	Because I wanted to do this before Mr Ojik started. I do feel that there is a need for more interruptions in the Chamber, so I suggest that we make a brief inventory of whether there is a need. If there is indeed a majority here who wants more interruptions, because it is really a very important subject, then perhaps we can get more room for interruptions. It's really about something today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u45	Of course. And everyone has been given the space to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u46	I understand. But Mr. Azarkan is now being silenced by you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u47	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u48	And maybe other people, too. I suggest that we take a short inventory of whether there is a need for more interruptions. In any case, I think that this issue is worth discussing in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u49	That's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u50	Yeah, but okay. But if we have already, while we have not even reached the Minister's deadline...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u51	No, then... Oh, sorry. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u52	Thank you for the point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u53	So I suggest we take stock.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u54	No, I can't, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u55	But in the end, we are the ones who are dealing with our own debate agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u56	It's in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u57	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u58	No, Mr Baudet, the Rules of Procedure state that the President... In consultation with all Members of Parliament, we made that agreement. I propose that Mr Van Ojik proceed. Proceed, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u59	I haven't started yet, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u60	Oh, yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u61	Oh, yeah. You thought I was already busy, but I'll start. And I'll start with a slightly different sound anyway. My group, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, welcomes the government's support for this Marrakesh Pact. Don't sign it. Mr Baudet talked systematically about signing, but nothing is signed in Marrakesh. Support is given, but no signature is signed. It's important that you have the facts ready. Mr. Chairman. It took some time, but now we also have something, a Marrakesh pact. I'm okay with that. However, while there has been a sudden storm over the migration pact, a second pact has been negotiated over the past two years, so far completely unnoticed. That pact is about refugees. To my surprise, Mr Baudet has not yet drawn any attention to this. In my group's view, this is as important as the migration pact. It's complementary to it. Can the Secretary of State explain the status of the refugee pact? Will that also be discussed in Marrakesh? Has the Netherlands said yes to this too? Are there so many objections to this? I'd like to hear more about it. Mr. Chairman. As I said, my group welcomes the support of the Dutch cabinet for the Marrakesh Pact, for two reasons. The first reason is that, unlike the speakers before me, we find it a balanced package. There are agreements on the human rights of migrants. There is recognition of the vulnerability of migrants. A minimum level of provision is advocated for migrants. But there are also provisions on border surveillance, return and smuggling. I don't really understand Mr Bishop right now, oh, well, I'm sorry; I didn't see him for a moment, and that's in my eyes how you can claim that this pact is helping people smugglers. There is a whole paragraph in it which is precisely aimed at tackling trafficking in human beings more effectively. So I think that is very balanced and I welcome it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u62	That was a bit of a problem with your eyes, because I was sitting in my bench.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u63	Yeah, I saw it. I've already acknowledged that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u64	I ask Mr Van Ojik to make the articles clear about the facilities to which migrants, including illegal migrants, are entitled. This only makes it more attractive for people to try to get into the country of arrival, that well-off country. So that's a business case for smugglers to try to recruit customers and drop them off there, isn't it? I think it even drives up the price, because you now have a lot more guarantees. Does Mr Van Ojik agree with me that you should look a little further and think about the consequences that this could have? 'Cause of course it doesn't say that. On the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u65	Well, the opposite is in it. In my view, there is for the first time an international pact, an international agreement that literally talks about trying to prevent human trafficking, about defeating and combating trafficking in human beings. There are also a number of measures, which I am very pleased to see are agreed internationally, on how to do that. Because the Netherlands alone cannot tackle human trafficking, send people back and guard borders in Africa. I will come to that later, Mr President, because that is my second point which is why I welcome this pact. That's why you need international agreements. Now there is such an agreement, in which an entire article is specifically about human trafficking. But Mr Bishop, who calls it soft law himself, says: this treaty or pact makes smuggling more attractive. I don't see that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u66	There is no misunderstanding about this: we welcome the fact that agreements have been reached. We share that. It's just that people smugglers won't care. They look at the market, at the market prospects. That is where our great concern lies. That is why our position is that this does not end human trafficking. This makes it more attractive to continue with that gruesome criminal business. That's just not in the pact, but it's a conclusion. I would like to highlight this concern to Mr Van Ojik: is that well regulated in that pact? No, it's not adequately arranged. So what does it have to do to get it right? That should be the question as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u67	I think that Mr Bishop and I are quick to agree on one thing: people smugglers should be behind bars. I think this pact, that these agreements are a step forward. They will certainly not solve the problem of human trafficking at once. It is rarely the case that one resolution, one pact or one text suddenly solves the whole problem that you want to fight. But I think making an appointment with so many countries about what you can do to stop people smuggling is the best guarantee at the moment that the people who are guilty of this terrible crime will end up behind bars. And that's where they belong. Furthermore, in this pact, I do not see what Mr Bishop seems to see, namely that it is becoming more attractive for smugglers to transport people to Europe. All I can see is that they're going to be dealt with harder, and I'm happy about that. That is one of the reasons why my group welcomes the attitude of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u68	Human smugglers belong behind bars. My question to Mr Van Ojik is: does this also apply to the leader of the GroenLinks group in Goes, who announced in the media this week that he wants to go to Greece by car to pick up refugees and bring them to the Netherlands? That is not the intention. That's not by the book. That's human trafficking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u69	No, that does not apply to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance in Goes, who, as I understand from Mr Fritsma, wants to go to Greece by car to pick up refugees there. To be honest, that has nothing to do with human trafficking. Trafficking in human beings is a business model that makes people very rich at the expense of other people; the cabinet does not leave behind to point this out. That's different from someone who says he wants to go to Greece to... I know there's a campaign going on with the slogan: we're going to get them. That is something you can think of as you like and Mr Fritsma and I undoubtedly think of quite differently, but to compare these people with criminals who put people in life-threatening boats at a very high rate of compensation, which makes thousands of people drown every year, is scandalous.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u70	No, it's not. The fact that GroenLinks is now emerging as a human trafficking organisation is scandalous. Do you know what the only difference is? The commercial smugglers are bringing migrants from North Africa to southern Europe and now a GroenLinkspolitician is going to help migrants with the last piece, from southern Europe to the Netherlands. That's human trafficking. You take care of the second part of the route, as a human trafficking organization. It is incredibly unimaginable that GroenLinks is emerging as an anti-democratic organisation. Because what is the policy? Migrants must start and wait for their asylum procedures in the first country of arrival. It's against the rules to pick these people up. It is against the rules to bring these people to the Netherlands. It's pure human trafficking. And that is what Mr Van Ojik is defending here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u71	No, I'm not, on the contrary. I'm saying people smugglers belong behind bars. And I say to Mr Fritsma that I find it shameful to compare human trafficking with this action. In smuggling people are enriching themselves because that is what smugglers do at the expense of other people's misery. This is often accompanied by a loss of life, as Mr Fritsma well knows. This action, which he and I think is totally different, has nothing to do with human trafficking, and Mr Fritsma knows that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u72	The difference is that one earns money and the other doesn't; if you do it for free, it's no longer smuggling people. That's absurd.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u73	No. Mr Baudet says it is absurd. The difference is indeed... It seems rather obvious to me that a smuggler is someone who makes money from, in this case, the misery of other people, by transporting them on broken boats or in crappy cars through the desert. Surely this cannot be compared with the activities of people who say: Greece is so overburdened with refugees, let us help people, let us show solidarity and let us spread the burden of receiving refugees fairly around the world. I find that an outrageous comparison. And if Mr Baudet, like Mr Fritsma, does not know the difference between a human smuggler and someone who is trying to help refugees, then he should ask himself, instead of saying that what I say is absurd.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u74	The moral card is drawn again to mask that there are no arguments. Moving someone illegally from one place to another, I think we're calling it smuggling. You have people who make money from that and people who may earn moral points, or a future position in the Lower House on behalf of GroenLinks. It seems obvious to me that people do it because they see a certain advantage for themselves, either morally or financially, because people always do things for a reason. The process is exactly the same. The result is exactly the same. You must recognize that you are good at smuggling people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u75	I can try again to explain that I find it a shameful insinuation. Let me try to talk to Mr Fritsma and Mr Baudet about something we might agree on. It is strange to those people who cause refugees, who in many cases are close to despair, without water in those cars going through the desert or on a boat and then have to fear for their lives, to compare at all with those who do something you can agree with. Of course, you do not agree; I understand that very well. But these people say: let us in Europe see if we can share the burden of receiving refugees fairly among the different countries. Again, you can think about that any way you want, but it's really crazy to call that "human trafficking."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u76	Please continue. You were busy with your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u77	Mr. Chairman. I said, I thought, that we were happy with this pact, because in our view it is a balanced package. I am not going to quote it selectively, as some of my colleagues have done. There is another reason why the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance welcomes this pact. In our view, it is of the utmost importance that the Netherlands continue to work to ensure that we cooperate and agree internationally on cross-border issues, whether on climate change or on nuclear disarmament or on migration............................................................................................................................................................................ If that does not happen again, it seems to be becoming more and more difficult to do so, and the international legal order is turning into a jungle where the law of the strongest is in force and where people with the biggest mouths are getting to say it. If you want to replace the chaotic, unpredictable and dangerous migration of this moment for the migrant with something that is more predictable and better regulated, if you want to reduce the risks of drowning and if you want to have the criminal smugglers behind bars, then you cannot do without international agreements. What is being ratified in Marrakesh is a step in the right direction. Indeed, the pact is legally non-binding. It indeed reaffirms the sovereign right of states to pursue their own national migration policies, within the limits of their own national legislation. Here, too, are my questions about the government's attitude towards this pact. I found it quite remarkable, however, that after two years of negotiations and after explicit agreement with the text, including by the UN Secretary of State at the UN General Assembly in September, the cabinet suddenly became uncertain about the legal functioning of this pact following the first critical questions in this Parliament. A further legal analysis has now been made. Why was such an analysis not made before, I ask the Secretary of State. What did this further analysis actually mean? Did it give you any new insights? Madam President. Then there was the letter we were allowed to receive from the cabinet this weekend. To be honest, I find it a little embarrassing to read how the cabinet is doing its best to minimize the importance of the agreements made. It is about 'optional policy options from which states can draw if they wish', I quote 'optional policy options'. All that is in it is already Dutch policy, says the cabinet. Is that really true? That's what I'm asking the Secretary of State. Isn't there anything we can't do? I don't think so. The cabinet says: "Where this is not the case, it is up to states to decide whether or not to be inspired by these options." That's very non-binding. I do not think it is in line with the text of the Pact either. There is room to choose from options, but not to do nothing, at least that's how I read the pact. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if I've read that correctly. Is it not the intention of the Pact, like any other UN resolution adopted, that countries should be able to address each other in the way in which paper agreements are put into practice? Yes, the cabinet says, but that only applies to the others. The cabinet says that the Pact is a basis for agreements with countries of origin and transit on return, tackling human trafficking and human rights. "In these countries," it says. Pay attention to the latter: in these countries. Not with us, then. We're doing everything right. Mr President, I shall conclude. I look forward to a cabinet that does not bow to the first bit of headwind, but that stands for its cause, which stands for what it has been negotiating for two years, which also stands in November for what it has already publicly committed itself to in September, which underlines the importance of international agreements rather than trivialising them, and recognizes that we too do not always have the perfect arrangements and that international consultation can lead to tasks for us as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u78	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u79	Mr. Chairman. Almost everyone sympathizes with the changes in our climate. In Poland, a global conference is currently being held on how to keep our planet habitable. I wish we'd done something sooner. I'd like to tell you the story about my experiences as a climate migrant in Nepal. Why Nepal, you wonder. That's because my friend and I are worried. You know that sea level is rising and winters are getting warmer. A natural disaster is slowly occurring. The Marrakesh Pact states that this disaster is turning me into a legal migrant. Of course we chose Nepal, the roof of the world. There we didn't have to worry about that steadily rising sea. In Nepal, everything is different. I couldn't find my turn there at all. Working was a problem. I couldn't weave pashminas because my hands were too big for the looms. What could I do there? In Nepal there is no national policy on labour migration. With this pact in my hands, I got a job that suits me. But what turned out? My employer did not have a complaint scheme in Dutch and therefore initiated a procedure. With the help of a free lawyer, I was right. Luckily it's well arranged now, in case I get any complaints. Learning the language is not a priority for me. Nepal will adapt to me. In the village where we lived, there was no neighborhood center where we could share our story. Do you think about how we felt? Fortunately, destination countries are expected to have such a centre. I started a procedure and I won. I thought that was the end of it, that it had been spoken straight, but no: there was a critical piece about the community center in the newspaper, that we were chasing the village at a cost. You know that since 10 December 2018, newspapers can't just be critical about migrants. Misleading stories that put me and others in a negative light are undesirable. I personally thought it was a misleading story. Such a centre was indeed important for the village and for the image of migrants and that is why I started a procedure, and the newspaper was forced to correct. Also soft rules are rules, especially for individuals who sue against the powerful governments. The misunderstandings, go ahead. The local doctor was not trained to treat me as I am used to according to Dutch culture and there is still no multicultural art event organized to gain more understanding of our culture. There are no individual routes for illegal Dutch people here in Nepal to give them a legal status. There is no classroom in our village and no church with stained-glass windows and a beautiful pointed church tower. Well, it's a matter of going through with it. We're not going to be discriminated against anymore. Then, fortunately, Nepal is no longer Nepal. Who's gonna grieve for that? You understand this story doesn't add up. The Pact is not written for the reception of Dutch migrants. The Netherlands is a destination country. But unfortunately, all the examples I mentioned are correct. My group is in favour of receiving refugees leaving their homes because there is war or because they are being prosecuted for who they are. But this pact is about migrant workers and climate migrants. We need to keep that in mind. In 2017, 235,000 people from abroad settled in our country. Almost a quarter of a million people, without a pact and without the citizens ever choosing such a large influx. More than ten destination countries have already dropped out. Australia, after all, is a country of migration that prefers to organise migration itself. In Belgium, there is a great deal of crisis in the cabinet. The meeting of the nuclear cabinet has therefore been postponed. In the Netherlands, the coalition cards have been shaken again. 50PLUS calls on the Cabinet not to endorse this plan. Then I have some questions. Why didn't the Secretary of State present this pact to the Chamber himself early? What does he endorse from the pact and what does he not? Why are only countries of destination dropping out? Is the Secretary of State prepared to launch a broad social debate on migration? Does criticism of migration always remain possible, even during elections? Is there any guarantee that labour migration will not become human rights? When will binding agreements be reached with countries that refuse to take back rejected asylum seekers? I am also curious about the response to the SGP's letter published today and to the words spoken today, I quote: "This pact is intended to promote migration. Don't sign." Those aren't my words, they're from VVD-coryfee Frits Bolkestein.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u80	With Mr Baudet, it does not make much sense to go against his demagogic rhetoric, because he does not listen, but I do know 50PLUS as a party that sometimes listens. I am sorry, however, that we are now pretending to have a number of rights that are not in it. It doesn't say "free legal aid." Mr Krol knows that very well. It does not explicitly say that it has to be free of charge. As far as community centres are concerned, apart from the fact that we have them, the cabinet has made it quite clear that they are not being set up because they are not. As far as the negative press is concerned, this is only true if there is systematic promotion of xenophobia, racism or anti-Semitism at the expense of the government. As far as the care is concerned, it is only about what we in the Netherlands have arranged in the Linking Act, namely that we do not let someone die on the street. If Mr Krol were to say these things, I'd understand. But he pretends there must be some kind of walhalla, like it is here in the Netherlands, while Mr Krol knows very well that that is not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u81	Look, we're worried about this pact and we're not the only ones. There are now almost 15 countries that are concerned. At the moment, a meeting of the nuclear cabinet in Belgium has been postponed because people are worried there. I wanted to express those concerns. I have done so by turning the facts around and looking at what it would be like if we went there and explained the pact in such a way as some migrants will undoubtedly be doing in the near future. That's what I've been trying to do. Otherwise, I would like to listen to your arguments and listen to the arguments put forward by the Secretary of State. Then we will decide whether we are in favour of this or against it, but for the time being I can tell you that I am not convinced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u82	Of course there are concerns. There are countries that are afraid of right-wing extremists getting the upper hand and bending. That's why there's fear and misery. But what is more important is that if we are debating a pact before us, we are giving the facts. I did not expect 50PLUS to mention in the same demagogic way all kinds of things that really are not in this pact, because with that 50PLUS supports a wrong picture. And I think that's really sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u83	In order to save time, I will mention exactly the points on which this story is based. We can disagree. It's okay in this house. That's very nice, too. That is why I did not initially vote in favour of Mr Baudet's motion, because I would first like to hear the arguments put forward by the Secretary of State. If he can convince me, fine, but at the moment I can assure you that I am far from convinced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u84	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u85	Mr. Chairman. D66 is an internationally oriented party. It is not for nothing that one of our guides reads: think and trade internationally. The Netherlands is not an island. Societys are connected in more and more ways. Major issues can only be solved if we work together internationally. Migration is such a big issue and, above all, an issue that demonstrates the cohesion of societies: a complex set of causes, consequences and effects. An issue that usually starts with a lack of perspective on a good future in a country far away and that ends with the question of how we can give newcomers a place here in the Netherlands and what mutual efforts are involved. Mr. Chairman. That is a sensitive issue. Migration naturally has an impact on receiving communities. The 2015 migration crisis has drawn deep traces. As far as I am concerned, it merely underlines the need for better regulation of migration together. That is precisely what this Marrakesh Pact is for. Mr. Chairman. D66 therefore supports the Global Compact for Migration. We are therefore very pleased with the letter from the cabinet. We do not see what would be wrong with trying to regulate migration better and jointly or what would be wrong with combating trafficking in human beings. It is also good that we stress that economic migrants should also be treated properly in the Netherlands and should not be discriminated against. It's perfectly normal. Mr. Chairman. Unregulated migration is a major problem. If migratory routes are in the hands of smugglers and criminals, this leads to exploitation of people, to degrading situations. The images of it are still on the retina for all of us. So we need to work on regulated migration so that people can travel safely, but also so that states can regain control of migration. The Pact contains passages about the regular part and also about the withdrawal of migrants. These are all very important issues if we are to tackle this big issue together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u86	I have a question about how the political debate on the migration pact has taken place. Migration is one of the most complex and difficult topics. It also always gives a lot of concern and feelings of distrust. The chairman of the D66 group spoke of 'no slippages to the pact', the cabinet said 'we have to study it all legally', and Mr Azmani of the VVD said: I have to see it all; I don't feel like doing those documents at all. Do you think this is a process that has inspired confidence in such a difficult but very important subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u87	I note that, as far as I am concerned, concerns and questions have arisen at some point in the debate on false grounds. Then I think it is wise that you take another look at what those concerns are and what the legal consequences are, and that you answer seriously the questions that are being asked....................................................................................................................................................................................... In my view, that is the job of the cabinet. If you're asking me if I had those concerns based on reading the compact, then my answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u88	On such an important issue, it is also very important that a cabinet should stand up for it and not, on the basis of criticism or concerns, whether rightly or unjustly, be fooled, and that these criticisms and concerns are not stirred up by the coalition. That is why I repeat my question: do you think that this process deserves the political beauty prize?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u89	The cabinet stands for this pact, because the letter is very clear: the cabinet supports the Marrakesh Pact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u90	I conclude that I am not getting an answer to my question. I'm sorry to hear that. I hope you will also note that the feeling of distrust of the Pact has only been stirred up in society. And that's partly because the coalition parties fought each other out of the tent, and because the cabinet was not sufficiently clear, but was especially in the rifle when critical questions were asked, among others by Mr Baudet? That is his right, but the cabinet is not in a position to go back and find out exactly what the legal position is? That didn't help to remove that suspicion, did it? I am sorry that you are turning away from that now, because it is precisely in difficult discussions that you must stand in front of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u91	I note that the problem started when populists on the right were spreading false information about the content of this pact. That is the problem we are discussing here today, not the pact itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u92	Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u93	Easy, easy, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u94	I find that too easy, because it makes us pretend that this is a debate between populist right-wing, critical right-wing and those who are only tardy towards migrants. And it's not. Migration is incredibly complicated. This calls for a careful debate, but also for a cabinet that is going to stand firm for it, rather than getting away with that kind of easy rhetoric. 'Cause that's not helping. It doesn't help in confidence. I'm asking you, please, don't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u95	In my view, I have already said that, as far as I am concerned, the cabinet has been careful in taking the questions seriously and answering them when they have been asked. As far as I am concerned, the whole debate has been inspired because some people are simply spreading false information. I have listened to the debate here today and have had a number of interruptive debates about it myself. I find that a lot of people here are still selling bullshit. I find that extremely regrettable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u96	For this reason alone, it is very good that we are having this debate now. We'll probably agree on that soon. It is very good that Mr Baudet has brought us to this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u97	Officer!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u98	A member of the staff. Yeah, how could I forget? D66 and GroenLinks are on the same side. That is also clear from what Mr Grothuizen says. But I have one question. I read the letter from the cabinet, which Mr Groothuizen is enthusiastic about, in such a way that it actually says the following. We in the Netherlands don't have to do anything. There are a number of countries, countries of origin and countries of transit, which need to better monitor migrants' human rights, which need to take people back. There are a number of things mentioned. But we're doing everything. Is that an interpretation that Mr Groothuizen shares? If he is, does he agree? Does he also think that we are a model example of good relations with migrants and that we do not really have anything to do with this pact? That's what the cabinet told us in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u99	I would like to leave the interpretation with Mr Van Ojik. If you're asking me if there's nothing better than that, that's bullshit, of course. Things can always be better. However, I note, as the letter states, that the Pact is based on European best practices and apologies for English, and that this raises expectations. It will provide a great deal of work, especially for countries elsewhere. Let us be very real: even if we simply look at Europe, for example the situation on the Greek islands, there is, of course, still a lot to do closer to home.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u100	D66 supports the pact that is your good law The cabinet also supports the pact and the populists on the right or anywhere call out all things that are not right. That's kind of the summary of D66's argument. But you cannot deny that the government was strongly in favour of this migration pact before the summer, and that after the summer, when discussion began, it hesitated, that it had taken a legal test and that it wanted to add an explanation of vote. Didn't the cabinet start mopping on the basis of the debate that arose? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u101	I think this is a bit of the same question as Mrs Kuik's. I've already answered it. Questions have arisen at some point. Questions have been asked by members of this Chamber. The cabinet has examined and answered them. The final conclusion of the cabinet is: we support this pact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u102	With an explanation of vote, which we have not even received in this respect, it is difficult to debate. I have the next question. Is the migration pact for D66 one big walhalla or are there also concerns in it? Are there any points on which D66 could have said that we did not need to do so? As far as I am concerned, this is, for example, the boundless promotion of economic migration, which should encourage labour mobility, where diplomas must be mutually recognised. Does D66 also recognise that unlimited economic migration, unfair competition and a race to the bottom can cause problems in terms of working conditions? Or do you say, "No, hallelujah, you have to put that in?"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u103	They're all biblical terms. I think the world is more nuanced. I think that economic migration can contribute very well, that it is very important for our economy that knowledge migrants come here. There are also other migrants, for example people who, because of love, temporarily end up in the Netherlands. But often migrants can make a good contribution. We have talked recently about circular migration. Mr Azmani started that discussion. In addition, people come to work here for a number of years. They gain experience here, transfer money home and then go back. I think that is a very sensible model. I therefore believe that economic migration is good, both for us and for other countries and for migrants, but we need to regulate it. Of course, there will have to be demand for it. It doesn't make much sense to bring people here if we don't have the jobs. The Pact also gives all the scope to pursue this type of policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u104	But D66 also knows the stories of economic migrants who keep up appearances in their own country, but live a miserable life here and are afraid to come out of it? So it's not that romantic. What the Party for Animals lacks is recognition of the fact that our wealth here is at the expense of future generations and people elsewhere, as has been shown by the Monitor Brede Prosperity. Why wasn't that mentioned in the pact? And doesn't D66 also think it's an omission that we don't point to the root causes of migration?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u105	The latter is, of course, a false position. The whole pact talks about root causes all the time. Addressing these root causes is also one of the central objectives. So I don't agree with you. The second is that I do not agree with you either. I do agree with you in the sense that there are economic migrants in the Netherlands who sometimes have a bad situation and that there is exploitation in the Netherlands too. So we have to do something about that too. I think we have a lot of regulations in place. Of course, you can sometimes wonder if that all goes well in the execution. That is where we have a task ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u106	Of course, these root causes must become concrete. If the rich Western countries, including the Netherlands, have an aggressive economic model, including an aggressive trade policy, and if we know that people's conditions are deteriorating elsewhere, it should also be part of a search for a solution to the problem of migration. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u107	I think those root causes are very diverse. Sometimes there's conflict or war. Then you're more in the spirit of the refugees. Sometimes countries also have just bad governance, there is corruption, no perspective, high unemployment or so on. I think there are all kinds of factors that we need to work on. Trade barriers can be one factor. Encouraging people to work elsewhere for a while and transfer money can be another factor. The climate has also occasionally passed today. Maybe that's why people decide to pack their things. Those are all factors that we need to work on. As I said, it is an extremely complex problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u108	Proceed, Mr. Grotehuizen. Oh, no, Mrs. Ouwehand has something else to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u109	Then I'd like to ask one more question. It's actually a conclusion. I've been to work at the UN, and I can't help but notice that in that diplomatic world, it's all a matter of looking for problems with good intentions that have nothing to do with yourself. The Dutch climate policy is failing. The Dutch trade policy is aggressive. If you do not dare to say to the African countries in such a discussion on how to solve the problem of migration, 'we are putting our hands into our own bosoms and we are going to do our stinking best to ease the pressure on your continent', I understand that you are not coming out. D66 keeps saying "we have to solve problems," as if they were natural phenomena. We are contributing very much to this. Why doesn't D66 ask the cabinet to bring that into this discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u110	I'm not the climate expert. I think the theme of migration is complex enough. But I think that all the dossiers are being worked very hard, including in the Netherlands, to improve the climate problems. A conference is currently taking place in Poland, to which the Netherlands is also contributing. In my opinion, the Netherlands is trying to tackle this type of problem in all ways, both nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u111	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u112	Mr. Chairman. This is not a treaty, although unfortunately it has been used many times today, and therefore wrongly, not least by populists who try to paint a false picture. Nothing is signed and nothing needs to be ratified. The text of the Pact explicitly states that the text is not legally binding. Countries retain the possibility to pursue their own migration policies. As far as I am concerned, it is good that the cabinet has reviewed the questions raised and concludes that there is no need for concern. I just said that on questions. But the pact is not without commitment either. It is a diplomatic basis that some 190 countries have talked about for years, a basis for further discussion and further agreement, and a basis for addressing each other. It doesn't solve the problems all of a sudden, but it can help. That is also urgently needed, because the challenges on this dossier are great. For example, it is extremely important that we combat trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. Tens of thousands of people are now affected by this. The fight against trafficking and trafficking in human beings is not easy, because the leaders of organized gangs may be in Libya, the accomplices are in Italy and the victims can be found in the Netherlands, Belgium or Sweden. The exchange of information and international cooperation is not only important, but also necessary if we are to tackle this. This cooperation is also important for the return of people without right of residence. That return has been the Achilles' heel of foreign policy for years. The Pact is a starting point for reaching agreements with countries of origin. It helps if there are better population registers in those countries. There are also many good objectives in this pact. A few weeks ago, a delegation from this Chamber visited Tunisia and Libya. We've seen how the International Organisation for Migration brings people back to their homeland. One of the major issues involved, told the employees, is getting the right documents. It is therefore extremely important to make such agreements so that people can get out of their miserable situation, people can go home and there is no reason for them to risk their lives on crossing the Mediterranean. Mr President, I will conclude. In a joint declaration with a number of EU Member States, the cabinet chooses to endorse the importance of this pact and to clarify how we read the text in order to avoid misunderstandings and to remove concerns. D66 can understand that. But most importantly, as far as I am concerned, we are now going to support and work on this pact. There is an enormous amount of work to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u113	Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. I now give the floor to Mr Azmani on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u114	Thank you, Mr President. It is our job as politicians to defend and defend the interests of the Netherlands and its inhabitants, to ensure that they can live their lives in freedom in a country where it is pleasant to live and to guard and protect all that we have built together. Anyone who remembers the images of 2015 and 2016 of the uncontrolled influx of asylum seekers and the consequences it had, including for the sense of security of our inhabitants, understands that we must do everything we can to prevent our country from being flooded with thousands of migrants every week. Nobody wants that. I therefore believe that most of the parties in this Chamber will agree. The solution to control the migration flow is to ensure that the conditions for staying here are clear, even if you are not allowed to stay here. We would like to ensure that people who are not eligible for residence do not make the trip to Europe at all. As far as the VVD is concerned, no one needs to drown during a dangerous crossing to Europe facilitated by a smuggler. In order to keep our migration under control, we as the Netherlands need to make agreements with countries around us, with other European countries, in order to raise together in the area of migration. After all, we do not want asylum seekers to enter anywhere else and then continue to travel to our country. But also with countries further away, we need to make arrangements to ensure good reception in the region, so that refugees can be given a safe place without having to be in Europe or in the Netherlands. Nevertheless, if asylum seekers are to travel illegally to Europe, we must be able to return them immediately to those safe areas. Finally, we must also agree with countries of origin of migrants who do not have the right to stay so that they take back their nationals and we can effectively expel them. It is not for nothing that I launched a plan in 2015 that led to an agreement with Turkey and a reduction of as much as 97% of the asylum influx. There are also agreements with a country like Libya. Through contributions from the Netherlands to the training of the Libyan Coast Guard, the number of boats to Italy has already been significantly reduced. The evidence of the usefulness of this kind of arrangement is there. With a delegation from the Chamber, I have recently seen this with my own eyes in Libya. I understand that circumstances need to be improved. Mr. Chairman. Today, we are talking about a United Nations compact that sets the noses of the consenting countries on the same side when it comes to migration. We agree on combating illegal migration, on tackling root causes and on taking back nationals. Then you'd say good news. But as you know, the VVD has been critical of this compact over the past period. For although there are encouraging texts on the subjects I have just mentioned, there are also things that make me less happy. Then we would not agree, the reaction could then be. I'm sure we've considered that, too. But I don't like being tempted to make impulsive decisions. I'd rather get the facts straight. First of all... Failure to agree does not mean that other countries will not either. That means the compact will still be there. We've only put ourselves out of business in that company. That's a bit like the UK now with the Brexit. They are actually still part of Europe, but they are no longer at the table where they are spoken. Second. No matter how many parties in this Chamber want us to believe that this is different, the compact has no legally binding character, not at first and not later in secret. It's a diplomatic document. The VVD has not for nothing urged the cabinet that there should be no direct or indirect legal risks to the Netherlands. It is a good thing that the cabinet has yet to examine this in depth legally. The political statement of opinion sufficiently erodes other unintended risks. You could paint this as an inlay sheet, but I see it as a practical solution to prevent judges from having too much room for interpretation in this document. After all, this is a concern rightly voiced by many. The VVD also considers it important to restrict this interpretation space. A statement of position can ensure this, because, if they were to include this pact in the decision-making process, the judges would have to take this statement of position into account in the pact. Third. No rights can be derived from the Pact itself. The image presented by some parties in this Chamber, namely that thousands of African migrants will be standing here tomorrow with the pact under their arms, is simply wrong. Mr. Chairman. I started by saying that it is our job to defend the interests of residents. As far as I am concerned, we do not unnecessarily frighten them or inform them on the basis of ghost images rather than facts. We shouldn't just stand by the side screaming and shouting that all boundaries should be closed, when we know that we can't. We must provide solutions to the legitimate concerns that people have in the area of migration. We are doing so, as I said, by agreeing with other countries on reception in the region, on return and on combating illegal migration. Those agreements should be made with the same countries that now agree to this compact. Then it does not help to stand with our backs to these countries. That doesn't help a Dutchman. It doesn't help to close your eyes under the motto: if I don't see you, the problem isn't there either. The Netherlands can expect sensible politicians to do what is necessary, namely to be critical of such a document and to make sure that it does not hinder us in our migration policy aimed at reducing illegal migration. We also need to see what it brings us if we keep our relationship with other countries on this subject. Then this document could provide the basis for next steps, such as concluding agreements to prevent these large migratory flows. We owe that to the people in our country. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have the following questions to the Secretary of State. Can the Secretary of State confirm that the Netherlands can continue its efforts to reduce illegal migration in line with the government's migration agenda? Can he also confirm that this document will not prevent us from further strengthening our policy, that a distinction can still be made between a legal migrant and an illegal migrant, and that there can be no right to migration from this document? Finally, I have a question for the Secretary of State. What about the explanation of precision? What is the situation with regard to support from other countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u115	Your group leader, Klaas Dijkhoff, called people who are against this pact "shouters on the sidelines." Now Frits Bolkestein said last week "This pact is intended to promote migration. That's what it says. A statement of position does not remove the core of the Pact. Don't sign it." Do you think Frits Bolkestein, like apparently your group chairman Klaas Dijkhoff, is a screamer who wants to stand on the sidelines?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u116	No, that is by no means the case. I think Mr Bolkestein is a very respectable man. That's how I know him from the many conversations I've had with him. He has a different opinion when it comes to this compact. It's clear and clear, too. I would like to express the opinion of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u117	I note, then, that Mr Azmani here throws away his group chairman, Klaas Dijkhoff, and implicitly states that Dijkhoff overheard himself when he called everyone who is against this pact a'shouter'. Because Frits Bolkestein, who is also against this pact, is apparently not a screamer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u118	That's bullshit. That conclusion doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u119	Does Mr Azmani know how many non-western migrants have come to the Netherlands since Mr Rutte's appointment as Prime Minister in 2010? So how many non-Western immigrants?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u120	I think we're gonna do a quiz: exactly how many migrants from 2010. That's definitely kind of the point. Well, I'm guessing. We had a peak in 2015-2016, when a lot of migrants came this way: 58.000. Let's just say that the non-Western migrants are around 300 to 400,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u121	I have exactly the number here: 530,086.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u122	That does not mean that they have received a legal residence permit here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u123	530,086! A completely unacceptable number. I cannot understand why you now want to sign a migration pact that gives these people rights to the most broad basic services. Detention only in the extreme case; Article 29. Freedom to wait for expulsion; Article 27 (c). If they came here via a smuggler, you can't bring them to justice for that reason; Article 25. Collective expansion policy is prohibited; Article 24a. And so on, and so on. I cannot understand why you want to support that now. And I have news for you... not more than a third of your constituents either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u124	I think it's all about how you think you're gonna solve the migration problem. I sometimes have the idea that Mr Baudet is still hanging in the past, in the past of that great influx of 2015. You know, in those days, more than a million migrants came illegally to Europe via boats. I took a look at it: today, in 2018 to 2 December, there are 132.000. As far as I am concerned, 132,000 too many are coming to Europe via this illegal road, but a fraction of that more than one million in 2015. Then the question would be: how could that be? Well, that's because we make agreements with other countries, like Turkey. And that is because we have gone to Libya with a parliamentary delegation and have seen for ourselves what agreements, which may not be officially mentioned, mean with a country like Libya. But we're not naive with each other. Of course we know that things have happened there; there 80% of the inflow has been realized with boats. So, with our backs to the other countries, that doesn't solve the migration problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u125	It is, if I may say so, a pretty worthless story from the VVD group: 'allowing with its backs to other countries does not solve the issue of migration'. Look, what you are doing with the support of this pact is telling the whole world: we support the UN vision that migration is something fantastic; we think migration is necessary, we think immigration is necessary; we think that all forms of regular migration should be extended; we think that migrants have the right to everything, housing, benefits, you name it all. What are you doing? I sincerely ask Mr Azmani: if you are a smuggler or a migrant, what does he think? Do you think: I am going to a country like Hungary, or Belgium perhaps, that it does not want to have anything to do with that open border policy? Or are you going to a country like the Netherlands, which wants to be the best boy in the class and welcome all migrants? Because that's exactly the choice. What do you think migrants and smugglers do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u126	In my view, it is precisely a compact policy to combat illegal immigration and it offers opportunities for legal routes, allowing countries to determine their own migration policies. That's what the document does. There are lyrics in it that I wouldn't have liked to see in it myself. There's concern about soft law. This is also addressed by others, including you and Mr Baudet. As a lawyer, I also acknowledge that there are concerns about it. That is why we have asked the cabinet to come up with a legal analysis. I have to say that it does not involve direct and indirect risks. By means of an EoP, an explanation of position in Dutch, a statement of position in Dutch, you can sear that judges may still use it. All this must be weighed against the concerns that people, in my view, rightly have about unbridled migration flows. You can't solve that on your own. Nor can we solve this by leaving the European Union, as the PVV and Mr Baudet want. We cannot do it all ourselves and let it go towards our Dutch border. I don't know what we're gonna do. 435 kilometers of fence? So what are we gonna do? I think we should get as far away from our borders as possible. That is the external border of Europe. We prefer to do it in the source countries, where people come from. I think that's what we're trying to do. We see this as a basis for following up on the development of agreements, as we have done with Turkey, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u127	The big problem with Mr Azmani and with the entire VVD group is that the VVD does not keep a word. The VVD has said that if this pact can have legal consequences, we are not going to agree to it. Mr Azmani repeats that. This is a very important point. I have here the cabinet letter of 30 November last, which literally states that, because of this general application, it is possible for judges or other judicial bodies to be inspired by international documents such as this migration pact in the further implementation of certain standards. So the cabinet itself says: it is quite possible that Dutch judges will be inspired by this pact. In other words, it is quite possible that Dutch judges will indeed give weight to this pact. And that was exactly what wasn't supposed to happen. That was the condition you made. Now you say it may be, but I'm gonna sign this story anyway. Or: I'm fine with the cabinet supporting this. You're turning! You're showing yourself again at its most unreliable. You're turning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u128	I'm not turning at all. In my opinion, the letter from the cabinet of 30 November clearly states that it has no legal consequences and that any unintended risks are further seared with such an explanation of position by possible interpretations of judges. To be honest, I'm kind of happy about that. If we had said in advance that we would not do it and then we had first gone to Marrakesh and then to the General Assembly and had adopted it with a two-thirds majority, we would have had nothing at all. Now we have a position of the Netherlands, possibly with the support of several countries, which is very much involved in the assessment of whether or not a right can be derived from matters. I note that no direct rights can be derived from this document and that there are no direct or indirect legal risks. And unintended risks are still scorched with an explanation of position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u129	The VVD fraction is spinning. You do not answer the question at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u130	Mr President, that is just a frame...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u131	Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u132	I just read a literal passage from this Secretary of State's letter. It says literally 'I would like to read it again' that Dutch judges can be inspired by this terrible pact. You have always said: if that is the case, we do not support that pact. But now you do. You're turning and you're unreliable. I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Azmani. There is always a lot of difference between the words of the VVD and the deeds. And indeed, if we judge your party by acts, there will be nothing left. It would be good if the VVD kept its back straight at times when it really matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u133	This is another very nice frame. That's how I know Mr Fritsma. He's trying to build up the frame that I said something else at first and that I'm saying something that doesn't correspond to that. It has been very clear to the VVD Group: the compact must have no legal consequences. The government's position is that it has no legal consequences. On top of that, an explanation of position will be drawn up which will further sear off unintended risks. Then I think the conclusion is that this has no value. This also corresponds to the provisions in paragraphs 7 and 15 of the compact, namely that it is not legally binding and that sovereignty to conduct its own migration policy is reserved for the countries that are parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u134	I also need some clarification on the position of the VVD in this regard. This pact has been negotiated for two years, one year under the responsibility of VVD Secretary of State Dijkhoff and one year under the responsibility of the current VVD Secretary of State Harbers. The prints of the VVD are on every page of the compact, you might say, in the Dutch political context. Mr Azmani actually says: there is a lot in it, I don't like it either, but if we don't do it, we're out of the loop; moreover, it's not legally binding and we might be able to force other countries to do things later. My question is, in fact, whether he thinks it is a good, balanced package, which was well negotiated by his Secretary of State. Or does he say: I don't really like it, but well, it's not binding anyway, so we can say yes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u135	I can be very brief in that, as Mr Van Ojik actually knows. There have been several ministries involved in the past. Among other things, the EU has been negotiating on behalf of the Netherlands. Several Member States are involved. Of course, the Netherlands has also provided its input to the EU. In the final months of the negotiations Austria was responsible for the final texts. That's how it happened. So it's a bit of a wrong picture to put here that two VVD-secretaries themselves would have written these texts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u136	Two things. One: this is not an approximate answer to my question. Two: when I say that two VVD State Secretarys have been politically responsible for these negotiations from the outset, I say this because in the letter of 30 November the State Secretary himself says that the Netherlands has been very active in negotiating this pact from the very beginning. That's not what I'm saying. It's the Secretary of State. I would ask the spokesperson of the VVD Group, Mr Azmani, to give a political opinion on this pact. I think that is a perfectly legitimate question. Does he really not like it, but does he want to agree to it because it is not binding? Or does he say: no, under the responsibility of my VVD Secretary of State, there has been good negotiations for two years and there is a balanced package? My group believes that, for the sake of clarity. I said that very clearly when I stood where Mr Azmani is standing. But Mr Azmani does not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u137	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u138	Thank you. Then I'll go to Mrs. Kuiken on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u139	Mr President, I would first like to put a question to Mr Azmani.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u140	You'll have to get up in time from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u141	That is true, but it would also help if Mr Azmani were simply to answer the very right question that I think was put by Mr Van Ojik. Mr Azmani has written in the press that he is not waiting for such documents. At the same time, his Secretary of State was involved in the negotiations. So it's either black or white at some point. Do you support it, or do you not support it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u142	We support it compactly in combination with the explanation of position. I merely point out that there have indeed been two State Secretarys of the VVD House, acting and acting on behalf of a cabinet, that there are several ministries involved...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u143	That's a repeat of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u144	Mr Van Ojik also asked about the well-known road, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This has not only been negotiated by ourselves in recent years. The EU has negotiated on behalf of all Member States. That's how the negotiation process went.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u145	I conclude that this is not a factual representation of the situation, because in the final phase Mr Harbers was...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u146	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u147	Yes, the Secretary of State was extremely involved in the final phase. And my question remains: how am I to interpret Mr Azmani's words? After all, he said: I am not waiting for such documents. Is this a must or do you want this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u148	No, I see this as a stepping stone. I have always indicated that I am critical of the documents. There are lyrics in there that are okay, but there are also less good lyrics. That's what I'm saying. When it is not legally binding, it does not have the consequences either. Then you can do two things. You can say I don't sign it and figure it all out. And I don't think that's gonna solve the immigration problems. So I see this as some kind of intermediate phase or intermediate step. You're gonna stay at the table with those countries. Then you make follow-up steps when it comes to controlling migration. I believe that we are doing this in the way we have been doing since 2015, by making more agreements with other countries. I am thinking of Turkey-like agreements and other types of agreements we have made, including in Africa. And you see the result, and so do I. We're not here yet. We have gone from one and a half million or one million illegal migrants to about 100,000............................................................................................................................................................................................... And that there are other paths or paths for that, is clear and clear. And I am also clear about those lyrics: there are good things in them, but there are also, as I rightly say, less good things in them. So I do understand the concerns that are addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u149	Last question, Mr. Baudet. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u150	Do judgments have legally binding consequences? Is a court ruling legally binding?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u151	Yes, a court order should be followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u152	Yes, but you said about this in our previous incident...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u153	Mr. Baudet, I have to interrupt you, because you've really asked more questions than anyone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u154	That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u155	That's true. That is well maintained, and everyone has equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u156	Yes, but this was not an isolated interruption, because my question was an answer to this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u157	Then you just have to ask your question at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u158	Last week we discussed this. I'm going to quote you literally now. My question was: did I just hear Mr Azmani say, 'This is from the Acts 'that if this compact can have legally binding consequences for the Netherlands, we should not sign it?' And your answer to that was yes. This is the same point as Mr Fritsma made to the Secretary of State: because of its general application, it is possible for judges or other judicial bodies to be inspired by documents such as the Global Compact on Migration in the further implementation of certain treaty standards. In other words, judges can be inspired by this compact, and thus come to conclusions in their ruling on the basis of this pact. That's legally binding, isn't it? Well, then you've gotten all caught up, haven't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u159	Oh, my God. Watch your language.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u160	Why don't we talk about real things instead of bullshit about language?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u161	What are we talking about now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u162	These are very fundamental things. You just have to acknowledge that it does have consequences, as the Secretary of State also says. And that means that you have to come back to your earlier promise that you will not support it. You're turning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u163	No, that's not right. I think it's true that if there are unintended risks... In other words, should a low court go for such a document, we will now burn it up with the explanation of position, the statement of position that we are placing there. We'll scorch it with that. You can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u164	So you think...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u165	Thank you, Mr Azmani.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u166	Hello!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u167	Nothing "hello." I'm just sitting here as chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u169	Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u170	Mr. Chairman. We all want to be there for people in need. We don't want to look away from human dramas at our borders. And we also want to make sure that our society can continue to bear the consequences of migration, that people who come here can participate fully, completely, and that countries of origin actually take back people who come here unjustly. You can, but that also requires boundaries. Because nothing can be infinite. If you want to be very supportive, then that also means that you have to make sharp choices about it. And we believe that agreements with other countries, including a UN migration pact, can contribute to this. But there are also a number of critical comments and a number of questions. Let me mention some of them. That is what the pact says that labour migration should be promoted, but we are not surprised by this. I would ask the Secretary of State to look very closely at this in terms of employership. What exactly does that mean? In the case of migration between or from European countries, we have seen that it was often a race to the bottom, in which it was no longer about equal rights and equal pay, but that it was ultimately a displacement for workers here in the Netherlands. How can we prevent such agreements in the context of economic migration from leading to the same downward spiral, to effects that we are not waiting for? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to ask a question about whether it is legally binding or non-binding. In the letter, the Secretary of State writes that the Pact is not legally binding, but that it may have legal consequences. That's what we're dealing with here. It is said that we are done with a statement and then we are as free as a bird. It cannot be both true, so I think it is very good that this debate will again explain what is or is not legally binding, which may or may not have legal consequences and what such a statement can contribute. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Ojik has rightly asked the question about the other pacts that are currently under way. Are legal binding or legal consequences already taken into account for this purpose? When are we going to have the debate on this? Of course, it cannot be the case that we are only having the debate when there is unrest in countries around us or when there are crises in countries around us. Questions are rightly asked about this. Although I do not always agree with the substance of the matter, that should not be the time when we are going to have a critical debate here, and that cannot be the time when the Prime Minister is going to ask himself what the legal consequences are. For two years there have been negotiations and not by strangers, but by two Secretary of State of the same VVD. That brings me finally to the political process. Being a member of the previous coalition, I know more than anyone how complicated migration is. I also know how familiar it is to get into that same groove of your own right, your own indignation, your own worries, and especially to clash with each other. That actually happened again. The VVD said: I'm not really waiting for those documents. The chairman of the D66 group said: it will and it must and I will not leave any inlays. The Secretary of State said: yes, but nothing can be changed about the pact, because we've been at it for two years and there's nothing going on. And the Prime Minister said, "Well, now that I've thought about it again, after some critical questions have come up, I'm going to find out exactly what the legal situation is. Mr. Chairman. I understand the debate and I understand all the questions, but I also hope that the Secretary of State understands that this does not give us confidence. This gives feelings as we have known them after, among other things, Ukraine. We have not necessarily been much better at this, but you always hope that a subsequent cabinet will learn from it, that it will not become shaky and take action only when questions arise, whether they are populist or critical of the right. Then you expect a cabinet and a coalition to stand up for the cause they believe in and that it won't be a must, but something they really believe in. Because in such a difficult debate, on such a difficult subject, on which many people are worried and which is too much to eat, it is incredibly important to move us all forward. This subject remains with us for a long time, because we still have more pacts to go. We can only do that with confidence and certainty. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u171	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Migration is of all times. The Sephardic Jews, persecuted by the Catholics in Spain, sought refuge in the Netherlands. During the Eighty Years' War, 200,000 Protestants came to the Netherlands. We had 10,000 Huguenots from France in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, Italian artisans, Hungarian students, migrant workers from Germany, Spanish and Italian guest workers and then Moroccan and Turkish guest workers. If there's one thing that's constant in our history, it's actually migration. Migration has contributed to the Netherlands of today. For can you imagine how the debates here would go without Baudet, Wilders, Kuzu, Ollongren, Arib, Azmani, Klaver, Öztürk? As children of migration, they have taken a place in our society and with them many here in parliament and also in our society. Unfortunately, migration is often a necessity, because people are not safe, because people have to flee war, because everything they love has been shot down, because a natural disaster has destroyed the viability. Just because of the civil war in Syria, 12 million people fled home. The consequences are disastrous. We see large numbers of people drowning in the Mediterranean. We see the terrible abuses on migratory routes and we often see the bad role of much too powerful and criminal smuggling networks. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, this is painfully revealing that there is a very great need to reach agreements on migration control, agreements to deal with smugglers and to guarantee the rights of migrants. Mr. Chairman. To the full conviction of the DENK Group, the Marrakesh Pact contributes to this. Eighteen months have been intensively negotiated on this pact and on the agreements and promises on regulating global migration. The Pact lists 23 goals with a solution direction. We read about tackling the causes of forced migration. We read about the fight against human rights violations, respect for the rights of refugees and also about the reduction of xenophobia, the withdrawal of migrants without a right of residence and the elimination of trafficking in human beings. This Pact confirms the existing human rights of migrants. In practice, Dutch migration policy is already largely in line with what is contained in this Pact. With this pact, we contribute to better agreements in the interests of migrants and the Netherlands and lay the foundations for better cooperation. In times when other people suffer from flesh and blood every day, it testifies to leadership if you are willing to work together to alleviate that suffering, because working together leads to better results and because the world does not end at Wassenaar, Venlo and Maastricht. 'Cause we're throwing bombs in the Middle East. We facilitate multinationals to avoid tax in poor countries. We also exploit children and sometimes destroy the environment. Yeah, well, then you shouldn't be surprised when there's people out there trying to get away from it. For DENK, the Marrakesh Pact is necessary, useful and quite normal. But, Mr. Chairman, there's something crazy going on. The Marrakesh Immigration Pact initially seemed to follow a route like many treaties concluded between countries. Thierry Baudet must have noticed around the summer that this pact really offered all the opportunities for his business model xenophobia, called BMX. Thus the debate on the Marrakech Pact was hijacked by the company ruse and deceit, dressed as Thierry Baudet and Theo Hiddema, although the latter frankly devotes more time to writing about his political career than to actually doing politics here in the Chamber. He has written one book and that is still one more than the motions of him who have been adopted. I'd tell Thierry to check that out. Mr. Chairman. The same Thierry Baudet who had the cowardly arrogance to say in this house of democracy 'debate is beneath my dignity' then comes here begging for a debate when it suits him. I think that is political opportunism in its purest form. Baudet, who comes in here once again with seagull politics, starts screaming and screaming and then throws out a lot of fear over Islam and then takes a dive into social media world. With spreading inaccuracies and so you want lies, with criminalizing migration at WNL, Buitenhof and Nieuwsuur he sows fear, and only to reap political gain for the Provincial States. That's as transparent as thin cut carpaccio. We gave Thierry his debate. It's a good thing we talked about it. I was sorry that he was not prepared to listen to the arguments. Despite this, he's picking up his shine on social media. But I suggest we move on to the order of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u173	I shall now give the floor to Mr Baudet, because of course he feels addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u174	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u175	Yes. This is called entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u176	Unfortunately, I am not surprised that DENK, the VVD and the CDA are in the same camp today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u177	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u178	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u179	I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u180	Mr. Chairman. The SP stands for a fair migration policy. It is therefore a good thing that migration is being discussed in the UN, because global agreements can prevent chaos. Good agreements have been reached in recent decades in response to the problems of that time. Think of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and also of the Refugee Convention in response to the horrors of the Second World War. This migration pact is a response to the 2015 refugee crisis. In 2016 it was decided to draw up two statements: one on refugees and one on migration. The UNHCR's Global compact on refugees are about people fleeing for political reasons, for war and violence. The SP believes that these people deserve protection, if possible in the region, and if not in Europe. This migration pact is therefore not about refugees but about migration for economic reasons, or labour migration. Objective 5 of the Pact contains quite a few recommendations to facilitate labour migration. Labour mobility must be promoted. The question of labour market demand should be examined in consultation with industry. Flexible migration programmes should be introduced in the case of deficits, including demographic trends. Objective 18 calls for recognition of foreign diplomas and skills so that migrant workers can move smoothly to work in the country of destination. Information on the employability of migrants needs to be improved. And point 44 states that the migration pact should be implemented in consultation with industry. You'll hear the echo of the World Economic Forum in Davos, where the world's great bosses agree on how to maximize their profits. Cheap labour from poor countries is central. It puts pressure on wages in Western countries. Worldwide, workers are played against each other, leading to displacement and wage dumping. In addition, it leads to a brain drain and disrupts families and societies in poorer countries. We criticize that raw capitalism. The SP wants to regulate labour migration. We have five proposals for this: equal work for equal pay, work permits instead of uncontrolled labour migration, monitoring working conditions and unfair competition, focusing on integration and language learning, good housing, tackling disruption and spreading rather than isolation. The fact that these points are important was confirmed by the broadcast of Newsuur last Sunday about the merciless exploitation of Romanian migrant workers. That is why we are not in favour of the free movement of workers in the European Union. We also point to the social consequences of economic migration. See the history of the host workers in the Netherlands. It led to major problems with integration, completely separate neighbourhoods and tensions between population groups, despite the success of many migrants, often achieved on their own. Several decades ago, the SP pointed to these problems. Does the government share the view that this was ill-considered? Mr. Chairman. The chapter on implementation raises many questions. The Pact may not be binding, but effective steps must be taken at all levels to implement it. This must be done, among other things, in cooperation with industry. The government's letter states that judges can be inspired by the pact. I understand that the pact can have consequences for the Netherlands. Introduction of the Pact is then controlled by an International Migration Review Forum to be established. This forum will look at progress every four years. The Pact is therefore not binding, but it is certainly not non-binding. The additional statement by the Netherlands and other countries will not be made public until after the debate due to ongoing negotiations. So we don't have all the information today. Can the government confirm that? What is in the declaration and with which countries is the government negotiating this additional declaration? And one more thing. Two weeks ago, I asked the Secretary of State: can this pact be supplemented or amended? The Secretary of State clearly said: no, this is the text, take it or leave it. Sorry about English. Now we see that there is an additional explanation. The Pact could therefore be supplemented. Does the government recognize that I have not been fully informed? Mr. Chairman. We strongly distance ourselves from the ghost images that Forum for Democracy and the PVV call for this pact. It is nonsense that the Netherlands will be flooded by migrants on 12 December, as they claim. Nor do I hear from these parties about the root causes of migration: global inequality, the gap between rich and poor, tax avoidance and all these free trade agreements. Either the raw capitalism, which is the cause of many migratory flows. We also do not want to reduce the rights of migrants, such as Forum and PVV. We welcome the points that govern the rights of migrants. We are not positive about the issues that further facilitate and propagate economic migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u181	Yes, Mr. Baudet. Personal fact, that's what I thought. Are you ready, Mr. Van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u182	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u183	Okay. Then Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u184	I would just like to say a few words, because we are being put up with a lot of things here and then Jasper van Dijk continues to say something about the root causes of immigration. The root cause of mass immigration is the social security environment in the Netherlands and the excessive amount of rights and pampering with which we receive people here, which hinders their integration rather than stimulates it. That is exactly what the SP does not want to question. That's exactly what the SP is responsible for. So I would say: take the blame on yourself before you come to us with this kind of unfounded accusations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u185	I'd like to respond to this, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u186	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u187	I recognise that social security in the Netherlands can certainly play a role in migration. It is good that Mr Baudet is making this point, because that gives me the opportunity to say that the real causes of migration, which I never hear of, are of course related to global inequality, which is encouraged by the system we are all in, also referred to as 'neoliberalism'. The wealth here, the poverty there. The tax avoidance and the trade treaties, you should deal with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u188	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u189	I hear Forum, but also the PVV never about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u190	Then Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u191	An old-fashioned Marxist story. But it doesn't make any sense at all, because it's not the poorest who migrate. In fact, to migrate from Africa to Europe, you pay $8,000. The sources are known to a human smuggler. So poor people don't migrate. People who can pay $8,000 to smugglers migrate. Do you know that most Dutch people don't even have $8,000 on the bank? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u192	An old-fashioned Sietse Fritsmaverstory. Come up with some news, I'd say. The main motive for people to come here has to do with lack of perspective there and the hope for a better perspective here. And why is that, this huge global inequality? It has to do with the system we're in. If you really want to prevent migration, the SP makes proposals to this effect.... you will have to fight global inequality in the world. That takes a long time, so you also have to make short-term proposals, but it is a matter of those two things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u193	No, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u194	There's Mr. Baudet again, with a point of order, I presume.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u195	No, that point has already been made. I'm going to see Mr Fritsma. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u196	I'm just pointing out mistakes. Here the fable is always presented if it is the poorest people who come here. That is factually incorrect. It is people who can pay €8,000 to smugglers, money that the average Dutch don't even have on the bank. When Mr Van Dijk talks about removing root causes of migration, we know that there will be another story about development aid and so on, but it has been shown that, if it were to work and if developing countries were to have more economic prosperity, even more people would go to Western Europe because even more people can pay €8,000 to smugglers. So your story doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u197	I have not yet used the word 'development aid' today, so this is very strange. Mr Fritsma is building a straw doll, which is somewhere in the room and he's going to hit it, but it's not me. He also suggested that the migrants who come here are just about richer than we are here, but then they would have no reason to come here. So don't deny that inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u198	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In May 2015 I was on the Italian island of Lampedusa and saw how hundreds of migrants arrived that week. In October 2015, I stood on the border of Macedonia and Greece and saw 7,000 people crossing the border uncontrolledly in one day. At Lesbos in March 2016, as a committee on migration, we saw how refugees were picked up from the sea by our own marines. A few weeks ago, as a committee, we visited the detention camps in Libya and saw the inhuman and poignant living conditions of migrants. Mr. Chairman. This uncontrolled influx of migrants into Europe, the thousands of drownings in the Mediterranean Sea, the exploitation by smugglers of human beings, all of which led to a special UN summit in New York in 2016. The declaration of that summit called for a system of non-binding guiding principles and voluntary directives. That declaration led to the Marrakesh Pact, which we are discussing today. Mr. Chairman. We are now on the eve of the adoption of this pact. Concerns are expressed as to how this Pact can be developed in claims and rights of migrants in States that agree to the Pact. It is therefore good to talk about this in the Chamber because it is about migration, which is one of the most important issues of our time, because it affects a lot of people and because this pact actually reflects how almost all countries in the world think about it. It is therefore a solution to this uncontrolled flow of migration and the treatment of migrants. Mr. Chairman. Even though the Pact states that countries remain sovereign over migration rules and that the Pact is not binding, the Christian Union welcomes the addition of an additional statement, together with a broad group of European countries: the explanation of position. The Christian Union believes that we should discuss our own migration policy. Although this is stated in the Pact, it is good to emphasise this, also in view of the concerns that appear to be living there. At the same time, the irregular migration flows in Europe can only be tackled effectively together. Situations such as 2015 and 2016 should be avoided. Of course, the Netherlands, as a country with a high priority for the protection of human rights, international law and also religious freedom, must always be prepared to take on part of the reception of genuine refugees, generously even as far as we are concerned. At the same time, exploitation by smugglers and traffickers must be combated, including the poignant situations that people, especially women and girls, face when they flee. I mentioned the Libyan detention camps. Mr. Chairman. I do have some questions for the Secretary of State. Following this Global Compact for Migration, will there also be a global compact for refugees? When will the Chamber be informed? And what's going to be the broad thrust of that? Will there be a letter from the cabinet about that and when? Mr President, two. According to the letter, the Netherlands largely meets the 23 objectives of the agreement. Which of these objectives are we not yet meeting? And what should the Netherlands do about this? Can the Secretary of State say anything about that? Three: how does the Secretary of State intend to deal more effectively with trafficking in human beings, trafficking in human beings and drowning at sea with this pact? Four: by which countries will the explanation of position paper be drawn? And the final question: how can the explanatory statement prevent lawyers from making a claim with this pact in their hands? And what added value does this explanatory statement have when recourse is made to this pact? Mr President, concluding. It is good that there are guidelines and handles and a moral framework of standards how we wish to deal with migrants. This gives a mandate to many countries dealing with migrants. It also calls on countries of origin to take back refugees and migrants if they are not recognised or if they have become illegal. In the end, I hope that this pact sends a clear signal to all countries that migrants must be treated humanely. The signatories may also address each other after 11 December. I'm thinking of the boy from Nigeria I spoke to in Libya, who was traded on a slave market in Libya and forced to work for a Libyan farmer for nothing for a year. I hope that this pact will make a difference for him and for many other migrants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u200	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u201	Thank you, Mr President. It's before my time, 1969: Marrakesh Express by Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young. "Would you know we're riding on the Marrakesh Express/All on board that train." I often had to listen to this music when I was in my father's car; that's another travel experience. The journey that Graham Nash made in 1966 from Casablanca to Marrakesh, when free travel was not a problem and caused no problems, stands for the symbol policy we are discussing today. "All on board that train," but no one knows exactly where the train is going when it is generally said that we shouldn't miss it. That gives us a bit of an uncomfortable feeling: if we all have to cooperate in a solution, we can hope that it is also a real solution. It doesn't look like it yet. The Pact seems like an empty shell, because migrants are people and people have rights, no matter how much some parties want to pretend that is different. Furthermore, the Pact seems to be mainly a summary of existing rules which sometimes also regulate much better what is suggested in this Pact. No more and no less. But it also seems that, for example, the Geneva Convention, which is incredibly important to guarantee the rights of refugees, is overshadowed by an unobligatory Marrakesh pact. This creates numerous negative side effects. People are being driven into the arms of populist parties suggesting that the Marrakesh Pact is a Trojan horse, which would open the gates to Europe wide to fortune seekers from Africa. The UNHCR, the UN Human Rights Organisation, warns against the loss of support for a humane asylum and refugee policy. The Party for Animals wants to ensure that that support, which is already so fragile, goes further down with this pact. Then it doesn't help to romanticize migration. As if people all move freely with a handsome bag on the wider world to find somewhere economical improvement, and that everyone is happy and happy with it. That's not how it works. People leave, nine times out of ten, not out of total free will, but because their circumstances are worse. Where they arrive, they are not welcomed with open arms. We have been able to read countless stories of people who have fled in search of a better environment, indeed after the family has turned its money, leaving that family destitute and actually afraid to tell the migrant in question at home that things are not going so well in the country where he arrived. Many dramas are accompanied by migration that is very often not voluntary. There is the real crux, and the problem with the Party for Animals. There is good talk about root causes, but apparently there is no one, not even in the Netherlands, who dares to say: we cause these root causes ourselves. While that should be the starting point for solving the problems, the human problems caused by migration. Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands we had a Monitor Brede Welvaart performed. This shows that we are rich here because we are taking on the future, that is to say future generations, but that our wealth is also directly at the expense of people elsewhere. We have an aggressive trade policy. We have a European Union, which is going to allocate EUR 365 billion to European agricultural subsidies. The surplus of these products we simply dump rücksichtslos on the African market. If no one dares to say in talks with the African countries "we are going to do this differently; we no longer want to be the cause of the deterioration in the living conditions of people elsewhere that triggers migratory flows," we will of course never get a pact that really offers the solutions that are needed. Mr. Chairman. Compassion for refugees and migratory flows from an economic point of view, motivated by the wishes of large companies and employers, should not belong in the same treaty, but in separate treaties. What about the ongoing talks on the Refugee Convention and what will be the status of climate refugees? They are now falling between shore and ship. It's not until you flood the island that you're a real fugitive. But you have to leave because the harvests fail, because there is always drought, because the water scarcity is increasing, then you are seen as a migrant. The Animal Party believes that it is necessary to recognise the fact that people can be climate refugees even before their island really washes away. Is the Secretary of State on the road with that information in the other negotiations? Mr. Chairman. Compassion and sustainability are the most important starting points for a living earth and for a humane association with everyone who is having a hard time. We think it is a very bad idea to be fucked in the suit with a pact that ignores these root causes and that looks away from our own influence on people's living conditions elsewhere, which means that we are chasing people into the arms of parties who deny climate change and who in no way want to admit and acknowledge that we have an influence on migratory flows that may or may not arise. Mr. Chairman. Because of these great objections that the root causes are not fully recognised, especially from their own position in the rich West, and the risk of undermining the basis for a humane asylum and refugee policy, we are not yet convinced of the value of this pact. We very much look forward to the answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u202	Thank you. I see you standing, Mr Baudet, but I have listened very carefully to Mrs Ouwehand. She's talking about parties, so she didn't mention your name and your party certainly didn't. You can't come to the Interrupt Microphone every time to make a personal statement. No, Mr. Baudet. Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. Then I'll go to Mrs van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u203	It says "round off" right away, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u204	Sometimes I do that preventively.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u205	Oh, that's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u206	Go ahead. You have six minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u207	Mr. Chairman. If anything has become clear in recent weeks, then it is how much concerns about migration and integration are. We've also raised it a lot of times. People feel that they are getting over the shoes, that migration is getting out of hand, that too many people are looking for help in the Netherlands and that integration is lagging behind. The willingness to help genuine refugees is certainly there, but it is undermined by those who ask for asylum but are not refugees at all and therefore wrongly appeal to hospitality. Often these guys refuse to leave as well and often cause a nuisance. As we speak that happens in Overloon. They're real concerns. Immigration and integration are the main breakers of our time. People feel like they've lost their grip in this whole globalisation. And when, of course, the UN comes up with a pact on immigration, of course, many people are afraid of it. That is a very understandable reaction, because then people think: "How should migration be regulated? It must be stopped!" That's the fear. That's what's alive. But then I look at what's there, and as far as the CDA is concerned, here is the beginning of a solution. Because we can't just curb migration. It is a global issue and we will have to work together to reduce pressure here in Europe. Other countries will also have to shoulder their responsibilities. They will have to take proper care of their own subjects. The soil must be removed before departure. People need to be able to be registered and get identity papers. It is important that people are treated fairly in the labour market, that human rights are respected and so on. The present pact offers handles. It sets the standard and it sets the bar high sometimes a bit strangely high on parts, but on understandable points. It is countless things that are properly regulated in this part of the world. They must also apply elsewhere. Countries must be able to be addressed. This requires a shared commitment. And that's what's in store here. This can be the basis for agreements with other countries. And those appointments are necessary. So we're naive? No, of course not. We are well aware that not all countries will assume their responsibilities immediately. But they're gonna be on it for the first time. A good listener has not heard me start today with 'it is not legally binding'. That's right. The CDA is looking first at what the Pact is: a diplomatic instrument in the fight we are fighting, curbing migration. We also understand and believe that it is not legally binding. Let us be clear: we attach ourselves to this. It is good that the Secretary of State had that checked again and explained it to us. Lawyers have put forward good arguments. Indeed, the Pact is only a framework for cooperation in order to achieve non-binding, guiding principles and voluntary directives. It just says, "non-legally binding." Sorry for English. Of course, relevant questions have been asked. I don't have to repeat them. I think it's important for the Secretary of State to take that up. These are people's concerns, and that is what we are talking about today. We are and will remain vigilant. Better safe than sorry. I'm staying with English. A statement at international level to address these concerns is necessary on a number of points. I'll walk by them. First of all, the distinction between regular and irregular migration. We read in clear terms that lawyers find that the right of states to make distinction is recognised, not only in the general sense, but also in the way in which countries apply and develop their policies. During the negotiations, these were also very important points for the Netherlands. This is not the first time we have talked about this. Maybe that's a tip to take. It is clear that it has not only received attention for now. We are also concerned about the issue of non-regression, because we want policy to be strengthened. It is not for nothing that we have put in place a committee to keep our asylum policy under review. And we're looking critically at the UN Refugee Convention. That space needs to stay there. That should be included in the statement. We understand that the Pact will be presented to the UN General Assembly as a resolution. This resolution will then become relevant to all countries, whether they have expressed support or not. That's something to keep in mind, too. Taking part in a clear explanation that gives explanation is so much more effective than abandoning it. But it might be even more impressive if more countries join, perhaps not just from Europe. Is the Secretary of State watching that, too? Mr President, I will conclude. For us there is a pact that will help us to work together better to curb this uncontrolled, unregulated migration. The fact that other countries will also take responsibility for the people is the goal that we want to achieve and the goal that we must bear in mind. But it has to be effective. We want to be kept informed. We're not gonna look at the shape of what's going on. We also want other countries to take on their responsibilities. In case I get the question if the Netherlands is the perfect boy in the class: no, here is a lot of discrimination; we too have something to do. All countries must assume their responsibilities, but the countries in the regions from which much migration comes, I think, have a heavier burden. I told you, we want to be kept informed. Something must be done. That is what we owe to all those people with whom I started my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u208	Mrs Van Toorenburg talks about curbing migration. I also referred to this in my speech. It would be a good thing to regulate labour migration much better: no unfair competition, no displacement, no social disruption. How does Mrs Van Toorenburg look at point 5, which contains all kinds of recommendations to facilitate this economic migration? There are recommendations to make agreements with employers on labour mobility and to promote economic migration in cooperation with industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u209	When I read that, I look at it like someone from the border region. I know from debates that we constantly have here that we have not done very well. It is complicated to take pensions from Germany to the Netherlands and vice versa. We can focus very much here as if it is from there to here, but these are general standards that also apply to regions. There are challenges in all these areas of how you deal with labour migration. What particularly appeals to me is that Mr Van Dijk knows how terrible people in Saudi Arabia are being treated with people who have migrated there and worked on stadiums. Those were really horrible images. That's what this is about. It's about protecting people who come to another country for work. That standard is set here. That standard is important, and that's where we meet all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u210	Mrs Van Toorenburg walks around it conveniently. It is not about the Netherlands and Germany or the Netherlands and Belgium, nor about Saudi Arabia. It's a global compact. Paragraph 5 states that labour migration, for example from Africa, should be facilitated much better towards the countries where we are. That must be encouraged, as is literally stated in paragraph 5. Does Mrs Van Toorenburg criticize this? Or is that okay with the CDA? Does she say: let this economic migration continue plus the corresponding disruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u211	No, because it's just not there. The point is that we deal with labour migration in a decent way, that we look where people are and we don't need them, and that we invite people when we need them targeted and not when we don't want them. These are commitments that we make worldwide, and therefore also in the regions. That is why I specifically mentioned the Netherlands and Germany. We just want to look at Europe from Africa, but that's not how it says it. It's much wider. The aim is to improve the organisation of labour migration in a broad sense. And we're behind that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u212	Mrs Van Toorenburg identifies a number of concerns. They could be taken away by the now famous declaration, which we do not yet know about, but for which broad support is sought. Why does Mrs Van Toorenburg think that such a statement would be sufficient if the UN Commission were to come to check whether the Netherlands, in accordance with the guidelines in the global compact, is shaping migration policy? My second question in the annex is whether it is not much better to include these concerns in the compact. Then at least you have the optimal assurance that one's own interpretation will be respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u213	First of all, as far as the content is concerned, I am not at all so afraid that people are appealing to the piece, because everything in it is actually regulated in the Netherlands. To a greater or lesser extent, this is the Western European standard, and I am committed to it. The CDA would have no choice but to deal with human rights in a decent manner. What could be a danger is that individuals pull it out of context and take out very specific, little things and try to stretch them as far as possible. That is why this explanation is needed. Let us be honest, in an international context it is very common to do it this way, when you want to spell something out very clearly. I think this is a very clever move by the cabinet, especially as it does this with other countries..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So human rights remain the norm. We as CDA attach great importance to this. A number of things that could be removed from their context and perhaps made much bigger than what we are talking about here should be seared shut down. So it's a smart move of the cabinet to make a statement to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u214	Just a minute, Mr. Chairman. It would actually have been unwise of the cabinet if it had not made a statement thanks to Mr Baudet. I think you're giving it a nice twist. That's what I have to say. But you're bypassing my question a little bit. If the supervisor comes here later to check whether it all goes according to the agreement, what guarantee do you have that this is included in the supervision? They could say, "You guys agreed to this, okay?" In other countries that haven't signed, we look at it in a different way, but with you... Isn't it much smarter to just include this in the pact itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u215	That is a rhetorical question, because it is already in the pact. The only thing this cabinet does is highlight a number of things and make it very clear how it sees them. Indeed, the Pact states that there can be a large distinction between regular and irregular. That's just what it says. It says very clearly that you can do rights, but that human rights remain the norm. The CDA wouldn't want it any other way, and I always hoped the SGP wouldn't want it any other way. But if there has been an enormous unrest that has arisen and we should not run away from it, it is very wise to give a very clear explanation. There's a debate. We'll give it a direction. That's what this cabinet did. Again, I think it's a master move. And thanks for the compliments, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u216	In regular and irregular immigration nothing changes, Mrs Van Toorenburg says, but that is simply not true. If you look at it carefully, you just see that certain basic features that we are now extremely reluctant about... All right, Mr. President, maybe we can have that discussion another way. I see you shaking your head sadly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u217	I always look a little gloomy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u218	Well, not usually. No, most of the time, you're cheerful. Then again my question: if that is so enlightening, I wonder why it is not in the pact. You can say it's smart to do that with an explanation, but that's an action afterwards. I don't understand. I really don't understand the cleverness that's in here, because I would have thought it smarter if it was in the pact. We would not have had this whole discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u219	The Pact states that this actually underlines the sovereignty of countries. They can pursue their own policies and regulate migration as required by the laws and regulations in their country. Meanwhile, I am reading and translating into Dutch. It is quite as it should be in international law. And we don't want it any other way. Then it says again that it confirms the sovereignty of countries. It also says that countries can make a difference between regular and irregular immigration, even when they look at their own policies and the implementation of this whole pact. So in everything they do, they can make a distinction, also looking at the different realities, the policies, the priorities and what it takes. I think it's almost splashing, but then it's still good to get a few points out with a number of countries. Those are the points that this cabinet takes out. Those are exactly the points I want to see again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u220	The final question is for Mr Fritsma. I see you standing, Mr. Baudet, but you've asked most of everyone's questions. You've set all the space. I hear you saying "good questions." You think so yourself, but I will put the final question to Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u221	Mr. Chairman. According to the CDA, nothing changes with the immigration pact; that is what Mrs Van Toorenburg says. But that is pure deception, because this pact, if it is followed, turns the entire Dutch foreign policy upside down. I see you have it for you, and that's good. Look at Article 23, under I.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u222	Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u223	It says that illegal migrants "case by case," i.e. case by case, on an individual basis, must be assessed to see how they can still obtain a residence permit. That's literally what it says. And you say here with dry eyes that nothing changes. Do you know what the practice is now? That people who are illegal and out of court should leave. Do you know what practice is when this pact is ratified? That we are going to assess on an individual basis how to obtain their residence permit from all these illegals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u224	What's your question, Mr. Fritsma?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u225	So the difference between irregular and regular migration, which you yourself are talking about, is resolved by the UN by making all illegal immigrants legal. And the CDA agrees: all illegal immigrants must be made legal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u226	What a fucking nonsense!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u227	That's literally what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u228	Aperte nonsense. Of course we will have to assess case by case, because that is what we are doing at the moment. We don't deactivate groups at once, we want individual reviews. And let us just two weeks ago adopt a very nice motion on this, namely that we always want individual reviews. Because that's worth a sweet thing to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u229	Mr President, this individual review does not apply to all illegal immigrants, and that is what the CDA now wants...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u230	No, Mr. Fritsma. Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting until 10:45.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u231	We will continue with the debate on the Marrakesh Immigration Pact. I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Perhaps it would be useful to start right away with how you are going to build your speech, so that we also know when and when you can't be interrupted. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u232	Thank you, Madam President. I have decided to let the argument fall apart in four. At the beginning, I would like to say something about the purpose of the Global Compact. I will try to call it a migration pact in a consistent way this evening. There is no good Dutch word for compact, but this might come close. So I say something about the purpose of the migration pact and why it would be good for the Netherlands to support it. I shall also briefly go into some of the principles contained in the Pact. Secondly, I should like to come straight to all the questions that have been asked about the legal implications and the accompanying statement of position. I will then turn to the many questions that have been asked about the content of the Pact, in particular the 23 objectives. Finally, questions have been asked about the other global compact, which is about refugees. In addition, there are a few related, procedural questions. That's the fourth part. Mr. Chairman. International migration cooperation is a priority for the Netherlands. In about every debate I have had with the Chamber over the past year, this issue has also been raised. This is partly due to the awareness that, for example, the pressure on the European external borders will continue to increase in the future, given the expected population growth in Africa and the ring of instability around Europe. This means that the Cabinet believes that appropriate measures should be taken in good time to limit or control irregular migration to Europe. Let me just say right away: the goal is not to promote migration. The aim is to reach good agreements, which will also allow us to control migration. This can only be achieved through cooperation between destination countries, countries of origin and countries of transit. I am often asked in the Chamber about agreements with countries outside Europe. In the cabinet's view, the measures envisaged will be faster and easier if a number of basic principles are also agreed and we have a start on common principles. For the first time, this migration pact offers these principles. It's sometimes put away like: it's just that. But it is essential for the cabinet. This means that we have a diplomatic instrument as an international framework to strengthen cooperation between countries of origin, transit and destination for the first time. Together, these diplomatic instruments can help to strengthen reception in the region. This is mainly about the other global compact, the compact about refugees. I'll say something about that at the end. Irregular migration is limited. In this way, the Cabinet considers that this migration pact also, and above all, serves the Dutch interest. Because it creates new opportunities for the Netherlands and the European Union to deepen cooperation with partners in Africa, for example, and to make agreements. That's not gonna happen overnight. This will be more difficult with one country than with another, but we can go further on making those agreements on many things that we consider important here, such as combating irregular migration. There was a request in the Chamber to see if it could still be done. With this pact in hand, we may have a chance of doing better than we have so far. The Pact is also full of addressing the root causes. It is about the return of people to countries where this is sometimes very difficult. It is about tackling trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. These are all goals that we also have in Dutch policy and which are the subject of the government's integrated migration agenda, as shared with your Chamber. We are convinced that we need to take further steps in this regard. This has so far been very difficult with a number of countries. For the first time, we can see that with this pact, almost all countries in the world are prepared to endorse these principles, so that you have a little more in your hands to really appeal to those countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u233	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u234	I would suggest that you conclude this subject, at least in the introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u235	I will come straight to the essence of this pact. It has been mentioned by all the political groups: the text of the Pact itself clearly states that it is not a legally binding framework. It also stresses that Member States retain sovereignty to regulate all aspects of migration policy in their own country as they wish. They have the right to conduct their own admission policies, distinguishing between regular and irregular migrants on the basis of their own legislation. I would just like to point out that the Pact thus distinguishes between regular and irregular migrants. Many groups have argued: yes, but here it is and there it is. The pact needs to be seen as follows. It sets out a number of starting points. Paragraph 15 states from a to z what are the guiding principles that we would like to promote under the UN flag. In the light of these principles, the objectives to which I am going to say more should then be seen. The Pact therefore does not make migration a right to migration or, worse still, as I have often heard, that migration would be a human right. Nowhere in the Pact is it stated that migration is a human right, in the sense that people could choose where to settle. Of course, in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, every human being has the right to leave his or her country. That confirms the pact. This does not mean that a migrant who wants to leave his country has the right to settle in the Netherlands, for example. At the same time, countries have a sovereign right to decide who they allow into their territory and who they lawfully grant residence. They may make a distinction between regular and irregular migrants. So, yes, you have the right to leave your country, but not the right to just settle in another country. That is the case today and will continue to be the case even after the adoption of the Pact at the UN General Assembly. Now I would like to turn to questions on the legal implications.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u236	Then I would suggest that we answer these questions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u237	Okay. That's about the hottest thing in the debate. We have looked, in the light of questions from the Chamber and the request for further clarification, at whether there are any legal implications of what is contained in this pact. As I explained in the letter to the Court, we found first of all that the Pact is not legally enforceable. Countries commit to cooperation with each other. In substance, we have said, the Pact does not go beyond what has long been the case for the Netherlands and many countries around us. Well, that's based on legal documents. Think, for example, of several UN conventions, not pacts, but treaties, the European Convention on Human Rights and EU rules. We then found in the Cabinet that such a pact could be used by third parties, judges, and others as inspiration. We have identified two things about what would happen next and which make the question of legal implications very theoretical. One: would that be a chance of success? The answer is no, because everything contained in the Pact does not go beyond what is already in force in the Netherlands under its own legislation and these international, truly binding treaties. Moreover, it does not contain any concrete legally enforceable standards. That is why it is not really possible to suggest that it will actually be decisive and that it will have a say in this matter. It also explicitly states that it is a "legally non-binding instrument." This also reflects very clearly the purpose or purpose of the UN Member States. At the same time, we have also said the following. If you want to ensure, not only for now, but perhaps also for the distant future, that this view is established, and you also want to make sure that there can be no misunderstanding or that it is interpreted in a different way, then you say: we record that again in the said statement of position. Such a statement of position is not new either. For example, I'm going back to the history of this pact, which comes from the New York Declaration of 2016. It was agreed: we are going to draw up two pacts. A statement of position was also made when the New York Declaration was adopted, at that time by the EU on behalf of all EU Member States. So at least it's something that's more common in the UN. The text of the Pact was then negotiated. This was done on behalf of the EU Member States, initially by the European Commission and later by Austria, because Austria would hold the Presidency during that six months. Of course, the EU Member States have provided input. The negotiating commitment has also been from the outset that we have said from Europe: it must at least confirm that it is legally non-binding, that it upholds the sovereignty of Member States and that you can make a difference between regular and irregular migrants. Well, that work was done with the text that was finished in July. From that point on, there has been constant talk between EU Member States, sometimes and margins of other meetings. "Gosh, this is the text. Yes, the EU's commitment is there." Then I'm talking about all the points I just mentioned. "Would they have been mentioned a few more times in it? Yes, that would have been possible too." So from that moment on, there has been a constant discussion about whether we should again make such a statement of position at the next round, namely the vote on this pact at the UN General Assembly. At least after the summer of September, at the beginning of October, this discussion was also held at political level, including among the rulers of the various Member States. It wasn't crystallized yet, but these thoughts were already going around. And from that moment on, say, from mid-October onwards, this trail runs parallel to the fact that your Chamber also asked for further explanations and asked questions about it. All this has come together in the cabinet position. I know we talked about this in an AO at the end of October. It's been debated in the First Chamber. From the outset, as a cabinet, we have also expressed our intention to support this pact. I also promised your Chamber at the end of October that you would receive another letter on how we would proceed. These routes, namely the answer to the questions, but at the same time the consultations within the EU, have led us to say that, also on the basis of the possibility that the Pact is being used to inspire the implementation of other standards, it is wise to continue at least the route we have been on since the summer. That was the route to look at itself, and preferably with a number of other countries, if we could come to such a supplementary statement of position. It does not complement the text, however, but sets out the elements which we consider to be essential in the future interpretation of the Pact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u238	Mr President, I think the Secretary of State was able to do his whole reply about at once. However, I would like to return to the question of what exactly the United Nations wants with migration. In the year 2000, the United Nations presented a remarkable report entitled Replacement Migration. I got it right here. Is the Secretary of State familiar with that report?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u239	Not with a 2000 report, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u240	Well, that surprises me, because that could have been a serious warning to the Secretary of State, especially not to go with the United Nations in the area of immigration. Because what do the United Nations want? In this report, the United Nations says that, under the guise of an ageing population, the population of Western countries such as the Netherlands should be replaced by migrants. It is the title of this report: Replacement Migration. That means "replacement migration." The Secretary of State is about to bow to the United Nations, to the United Nations' view on migration. That means only one thing: replacing our population with migrants; see the report. You didn't even know the report. You're just getting into it. That's a hell of a scandal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u241	I note that the report mentioned in 2000 did not lead to any introduction into policy in the Netherlands or in Europe, nor is it part of the present pact. It's not in this pact. It has not become a policy and there is no plan to allow it to become a policy in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u242	Article 41 states that the signatory Member States undertake to implement this Pact. How does the Secretary of State see that? How will this pact be implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u243	That is, first of all, to all Member States themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u244	But in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u245	Yeah, I'm gonna build it up. It is up to all Member States themselves to look at and be inspired by the objectives. I'll get to that later. I think that many countries in the world have a huge lot of homework when you look at the objectives set out in this pact, but that is hardly the case for the Netherlands. I shall come back to that later in the answer. I think that the biggest task for the Netherlands to implement is to see how we can address and help other countries, if they are willing to make improvements in migration along the lines of this pact in their own country. Then we can also see if we can make agreements with those countries, for example on the return of their own inhabitants. Above all, from the Netherlands and Europe, we need to see how we can help these countries. So I think that the vast majority of implementation will consist of looking at how we can now limit and control the flow of regular migration to Europe with our knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u246	The Secretary of State said about the implementation in the Netherlands, which my question was about: I will come to that. So I think it is fair that this question of mine should not be regarded as interrupting, but is being postponed to shortly. I think that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u247	I will go into all the objectives in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u248	Exactly, so I'll get back to you. I assume that the chairman will be able to act in this respect towards me. Today, an extensive hearing was held in the Belgian Parliament. You are probably aware of the legal implications of the Marrakech immigration pact and the possibilities of adjusting the meaning of that pact with an insert. Professor Cologneer said the following. "Even for the interpretation of a treaty, and the migration pact is not a treaty, an interpretative note is only an element of the context that will be taken into account in so far as there is no conflict with the ordinary meaning of terms, except where it is established that the parties have intended to give a particular meaning to a term. An interpretative note will therefore, in general terms, place very little legal weight on the scale." This is about an interpretative note, which is your insert. Following this analysis, it was found in the Belgian Parliament that judges will thus be able to give different interpretations of national law by means of this pact. In this "soft law" way, the Pact will therefore have a binding impact on the signatories. Could the Secretary of State respond to the analysis of these Belgian lawyers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u249	Sure, along two lines. The first is the interpretative statement, which Mr Baudet mentions, by a treaty. That is an instrument that is being used when you conclude a treaty and we have already established that this is not a treaty. Here it is customary to come to such a statement of position. You can pronounce it and record it. That just doesn't make the equation work. The second is that, in the statement of position, we emphasise a number of things that are contained in the pact itself. I just mentioned them. They are also listed in the letter to the Chamber. It is about the sovereignty of Member States to pursue their own migration policies, about being able to make a difference between regular and irregular migrants, about finding that this is about migration; well, you know the list in the letter. These are things that are already in the Pact and which we believe should be given even more emphasis. The situation presented by Mr Baudet is that these words themselves could be interpreted in a number of ways, which is not the case, but we would like to stress that once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u250	Yes, but the Belgians are talking about this pact. They are not talking about treaties in a general sense, but they say that even with a treaty such an interpretative note is of no value. Can you figure out what it's like with a pact? They then come to the same conclusion as you drew in your letter, namely that this pact can indeed be used by judges as an interpretative guideline. You will say: yes, but we do not have to worry about that, because the standards set out in the Pact have been introduced in the Netherlands for a long time. Are you aware that this was precisely the argument with which the Netherlands signed the European Convention on Human Rights in the 1950s? The House was told: this will never force the Netherlands to make any adjustments to our policy. Well, in the meantime, binding statements have been followed in many areas, to which we must adapt our legislation and policies in every possible way. If you say that all the principles contained in the Marrakesh Immigration Pact are long ago in the Netherlands and nobody wants to get rid of them, then you are simply wrong. Article 25: You are not allowed to judge people who come to the Netherlands via a human smuggler. You can't lock people down if you want to turn them off. You can't question whether or not people are underage when they claim that. They are entitled to basic amenities such as bed-bath-bread.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u251	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u252	These are all things that are politically hot issues in the Netherlands, which are part of election campaigns and on which the Dutch people should be able to express themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u253	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u254	If an international treaty lays it down and as judges, as you yourself recognise, can use it as an interpretative guideline, then are you really in the process of agreeing legally binding guidelines? Then we're just gonna be tied to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u255	It is a long speech, but not all the elements are yet true. Firstly, Mr Baudet compared the adoption of the ECHR, the European Convention on Human Rights in the 1950s. That's a treaty, not a pact. That is a fundamental difference. Secondly, the cabinet has pointed out that it can naturally happen... When this pact is adopted, it is relevant to the UN. It is also relevant for all UN Member States. However, third parties may indeed be inspired by it in completing other binding standards in other treaties. But we have also found that if you read through the whole pact from a to z, it cannot lead to new rights or obligations for the Netherlands, for the simple reason that there are no new things in it. Those 23 objectives, which I will deal with later, do not include matters that the Netherlands does not already have in its policy. So that's where it starts. If you look at the implementation, you don't have a lot of homework here as the Netherlands. Of course you have to keep in mind whether we want to keep it so neat, but I think migration is very beneficial that you just have good, clear rules for people about when you can come to the Netherlands and when not. The latter is therefore also a very real possibility if you do not comply with the rules. At the same time, therefore, there are no new rights and obligations. Secondly, you can make it clear once again that the Pact states that we are allowed to conduct our own policies and that it is not legally binding. In order to provide this clarity not only for now, but also for the future, we have said that, in the third place, we are also laying it down in such a statement of position. This has completely neutralized the cabinet or, as others in the Chamber have said, has been cut off.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u256	The big question remains: does this pact work now or not? The government seems to say: it has no influence on the Netherlands; it is non-binding, but we are going to use it in communication, in consultation with other countries...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u257	Ma'am, I think it would be wise for you to go with the police officer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u258	This interruption didn't count, did it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u259	Yours or that woman's in the public gallery?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u260	We can talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u261	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u262	The question remains whether the Pact is working or not. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to join us in an example. He says he wants to use it in his contacts with other countries, for example on the point of return. I think that is also an important point. Rejected migrants have to go back, but some countries don't take them back. Suppose you go with this pact to a country like Algeria or Morocco and say: look, here in this pact it says that the return must be arranged. Then, of course, such a country says: listen, the Netherlands, there is also target number 5 here, which means that economic migration should be facilitated; companies should be involved in the question of how our people can easily come to the Netherlands to work. That is a logical response from those countries, isn't it? If it works for them, it also works for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u263	Exactly. When I say that it is legally non-binding for the Netherlands, with everything I have just said about it, this also applies to all other countries that are part of the UN. For everyone, it is not legally enforceable. But then it comes of great importance. I said earlier and also in the letter to the Chamber that the great importance of such a pact, of such a text, is such a starting point that it is a diplomatic instrument. It is indeed a signal that countries that have never wanted to speak out for a text that says that you have to take back your nationals or that you already have to provide them with orderly identification documents, passports, birth certificates, you name it, so that they can show who they are and in which country they belong, they support this now. For me, it is the most important thing to do. Then it will not be the case that you have the conversation in all the countries where you enter, which will in future lead to everyone being given a passport there. Then we don't even have to talk about forced return, because then people can take the plane with their own passport. However, I think it is very important that we should now be able to have this conversation more intensively, as more countries have said that they agree with this and are willing to work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u264	That is of course mutual: for what, hear something. So it's a well-known discussion. When it comes to returning rejected asylum seekers, migrants, those countries say: we want more legal migration in return. In fact, even a motion has been passed in the Chamber to indicate that the exchange is not the intention. Does the Secretary of State understand that with this pact, which the government is in favour of, those countries can ask for more economic migration towards the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u265	Yeah, they could ask. And then we're not obliged to do that either. At the same time, we have more starting points to draw other countries' attention to their responsibilities, because of course the Netherlands is one of the countries. I do not think there are twenty of them in the world who, along the lines of all these objectives, already have their policies in place. I am going to deal specifically with Mr Van Dijk's questions on labour migration. However, I would like to point out that Objective 5 does not say that a broader labour migration policy must be pursued. He doesn't say it should be dictated by employers. It says no more or less than that as a country you have made rules, laws, which record when you have access to a country if you are a migrant and when you are not. We have these rules in the Netherlands. We have rules for when you can enter as a knowledgeant, when you can get an employment permit and when you can come here to study, whether temporarily or not. It is about that kind of agreement and the tragedy is that many countries in the world are not clear about it, do not have any agreements about it, and may sometimes find inspiration in this pact for their own country to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u266	Is it an idea to deal with the issue of migrant workers now, because Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mrs Kuik and Mr Grothuizen have asked questions about this? Then we have at least dealt with that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u267	That's a good proposal. I would just like to say to the Secretary of State that, as far as I am concerned, he really makes point 5, target number 5 too small with this explanation from him. Objective 5 really says that in cooperation with the business community, programmes must be put in place to ensure that people are able to move flexibly to the Netherlands or any other country. Facilitating economic migration is explicitly stated in Objective 5.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u268	That's what the Secretary of State is now discussing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u269	In a general sense. We are going to have that many times in this debate. There are 23 objectives in the Pact. If you want to pursue an orderly migration policy, these 23 would be desirable objectives. If you go through those goals, you might find something here and there that is still homework for the Netherlands. I honestly don't think so. These are all things that we meet. Objective 5 is that you simply have a regular migration policy, that you, exactly what I just said, have rules about when and when you are welcome in the Netherlands for a legitimate stay to work here. Mr Van Dijk points out something that needs to be developed with business, and so there are a lot of things in it. These are all non-binding policy options, if you choose as a country to further pursue that objective. With all these Member States, the UN has thought about what if you want to achieve that objective, you will all have opportunities to fill it in, but that follows on from the question of whether you still have to fulfil that objective. I note that we are meeting this objective 5. We have a regular labour migration policy. This is restrictive for people from outside Europe, because we are on a continent that already has a great deal of labour migration from within the European Union because of the free movement of persons. We do not need and will not continue to adapt that policy with this pact in hand. I also noticed some concern with Mr Van Dijk about whether this pact will lead to more labour migration to the Netherlands. I may have misunderstood him, but I also heard the concern that this might lead to further displacement in the Netherlands. No, that's not the purpose of this pact. That is not being ordered, and we are certainly not going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u270	The latter is very clear and I appreciate it. Thank you. But we're going back to that negotiation. The Secretary of State is in Africa and holds the pact. He stands in Algeria or Morocco and says: you must take back your rejected migrants. Then these countries say: the Netherlands, you have to do more to make our people come legally. That's a perfectly reasonable demand, isn't it? They will also say: it is a diplomatic instrument and with that we will work on the Netherlands for a while, because our people might like to work there. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u271	If that goes at this speed, we'll be talking to a country like this again after two minutes. In practice, I do not think that this pact can really lead to a deeper discussion and that there will be a lot of concerns and obstacles from the other side, especially in the case of countries that still have a world to win on almost all of the objectives. They will say, for example, that it will not happen overnight, but rather that they want to pursue it in the longer term. They may also ask the Netherlands or other countries in the European Union if there are issues they can help with, for example in shaping policies in your own country and in thinking about how to conduct a regular admission policy. That conversation, I have already said, is really not over overnight, but with this pact in hand and with the fact that the whole world already meets at the conference and that the first talks can already be held there, I think that conversation is going a little easier than without this pact, because at least we can consider some of the starting points of the conversation rather than wondering what we really want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u272	I still feel that the cabinet is a bit hung on two thoughts. On the one hand, it is a document on the basis of which other countries can be addressed, but on the other hand, the cabinet's line of defence is that, as the letter states, it is "optional policy options." But if these are optional for the Netherlands, then they are also optional for those other countries, so those other countries are not open to them. I do sympathize with what Mr Van Dijk has to say. Be clear about this: to what extent is this binding? Here's the next question. Can the Secretary of State understand the mistrust that arises when you read in that compact "migration is a source of prosperity, innovation, sustainable development in our globalised world"? And it also says: "The compact is committed to creating stimulating conditions that enable all migrants to enrich our societies through their human, economic and social skills." "Our societies" could also be the country of origin. And: "The government must stop making public funds or material support available to media that are critical of migrants." Can the Secretary of State then understand anything of the mistrust expressed by several colleagues?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u273	Oh, yeah. And precisely because we take these concerns seriously, we have said in the cabinet that we want to lay down a number of very important principles for the Netherlands once again. Mr Bishop cites a number of examples. Let me take away the misunderstanding about the last example, media freedom, even right away. That is such a non-binding policy option, on an objective where the Netherlands really does not have homework. Of course, there is no one in the cabinet, and I think that is true of everyone in the European Union, who says: we are now going to restrict freedom of the press and freedom of expression. Absolutely not. No one has to worry about that. That is a non-binding policy option, which makes us uncomfortable. In fact, the main objective has already been achieved in the Netherlands. The other quotes given by Mr Bishop are included, for example migration as a source of enrichment. That is the same: provided that it is properly regulated, provided that it is clear that migrants also have legitimate residence here. Equally, this Pact contains much more about the concerns associated with irregular migration, which are accompanied by migration if you are not in a good place. Apart from what I have just mentioned: trafficking in human beings, trafficking in human beings and all the disgusting things that we want to tackle, it also says quite explicitly that if you have too many irregular migrants, if you do not manage to limit them properly in your society and if migration is not regulated, that will only cause real concern. They are also addressed. The example has already been mentioned today. We only have to go back three years in time to 2015, to see what happens when you no longer have any regulation and a million people come to Europe. That's what we're trying to prevent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u274	I do not think there is any difference of opinion on the latter. That kind of horrible scenes you just don't want to go through anymore. But let's get back to the point the Secretary of State mentioned in the answer first. For the Dutch government and European countries, nothing needs to happen about that statement about not making money available to media that are critical or negative about migrants; that is optional. But that's exactly what my colleague Van Dijk was referring to, isn't it? When the other side of the table is said "yes, but look at what is being said in your media about our residents, our migrants," you lose the basis to ask on that side to make an effort? Isn't that true when all this is optional, when it's such an important pact? I do not think the basis for this is sound.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u275	No. It's been said before. That is what we have said from the cabinet. This is even why, from the summer onwards, we were still looking at whether we wanted to highlight a few more points in that statement of view. This is the way it works when you try to come up with a text with 180 countries, and I still think that this is a breakthrough, of which almost the whole world says: we are prepared to put some paperwork on how we want to prevent the tragedies surrounding migration and how we want to make sure that we can manage it better in the future. Yes, then there will also be texts on paper that you say: that is not the case for the Netherlands anyway. It may be that inspiration is derived from this on other continents or elsewhere in the world. What is important to us is that main objective. If you put those 23 objectives in addition to Dutch policy, you will find that we have been meeting these objectives for a long time and many decades. So then there is no homework to draw from that list of non-binding policy options, which is indeed laughable and ridiculous, but does not apply to the Netherlands either. Actually, I was gonna leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u276	I have a genuinely open question to the Secretary of State. We are talking about a pact drawn up under the auspices of the United Nations. It is mainly a matter of what countries agree with each other. But when that pact comes, there are also individual people who want to stay here in the Netherlands, who want to be assisted by a lawyer and who try to prove that they have the right to stay here? I'm not talking about countries, but those individual people will, through their lawyer, appeal to what's in here? Could they not claim more rights than they have now, precisely because they can refer to this pact?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u277	No, it's not, for two reasons. One, that judge will see what the Netherlands has in its legislation. And in this pact there are no new rights or obligations that such an individual could point out in the sense of: on the basis of this sentence in the pact, I would be entitled to stay here. That is why it is not on the agenda. And the laws and rules we already have are based on EU legislation, on the ECHR and on further obligations we already have. So for both reasons, such a profession will not succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u278	Now the judge is independent in the Netherlands. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that such an appeal cannot be successful in any individual case?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u279	I repeat what I said. We have examined this risk and found that this pact can be introduced or that it can be used to inspire other laws and treaties. But then, first and foremost, there is no new rights and obligations other than those which the Netherlands has long complied with. That situation is, you might say, purely theoretical, but I am going along with Mr Krol. But that is why this situation will not arise. If that situation should arise, therefore, that statement of position, because it is likely that it will often be a matter against a government, an authority or an authority, it can be added to highlight what is already in the Pact, namely that it is not legally binding and that the Netherlands simply has the full freedom to conduct its own migration policy. That migration policy, enshrined in laws and regulations, is ultimately what you can get tested in court.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u280	With a lot of words, the Secretary of State says he doesn't think he will. So he also says: all those people in the countries around us who doubt it, are mistaken. But I would have preferred him to have said: I give the assurance that that is not possible. I still haven't heard that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u281	I've explained how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u282	I am a little more positive about the pact than the colleagues before me at the interrupt microphone, but I think I understand their inconvenience. That is because the cabinet says to us: this pact is useful for us to encourage other countries to act, but the other way around it cannot encourage other countries to do certain things. It's hard to understand. That is why I would like to ask the Secretary of State the following. Perhaps it is not so crazy to say: yes, perhaps this pact will also lead others to ask us to do more against, for example, Mrs Toorenburg talked about discrimination against migrants or Mr Azmani spoke about circular migration. Is it so difficult to say that such a pact is to give and take; we ask them something and perhaps they ask us something too? How bad is that, anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u283	That is okay, but I note that we are not obliged to fill that question in legally binding. If we ourselves choose freely that we can reach a very good agreement with country X if we take a step further ourselves, then we have to face that possibility. And then you will undoubtedly be discussed with your Chamber how you stand in that regard. But the most important thing about this is this. Another country with which we would like to make an appointment, cannot derive a right from this by saying: you as the Netherlands are obliged to do so now. What we decide freely falls under the sovereignty of our own migration policy. Of course, this is often the case with international agreements of this kind. I'll remind you of the deal with Turkey. It was not an agreement on migration policy, but there was money to improve reception conditions on the ground. So things always happen over and over again, but we want to be able to keep the grip and direction on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u284	Of course, I'd almost say. To be honest, this also applies to the other 180 countries that are going to agree in Marrakesh, as we are about to agree, if the question is: are you in favour of the agreements made in this Pact? So we're all in this together. It would help if the cabinet did not pretend that the Netherlands is less committed to the articles of the pact, because we are already doing everything, than all the other countries. I think the great advantage of this is that we have all agreed to this and that we can, of course, address each other. And then, of course, the Secretary of State is right: he is not obliged to say yes, but that is neither Morocco nor Algeria. It would help me if we were just open about that and pointed out the pact that way. This would perhaps make it easier for those who oppose it and those who support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u285	That's two things. If we want to make agreements with third countries, we are there ourselves. As I outlined earlier, I think it will give new impetus to these talks at the time when this pact is established in the United Nations. But I am right in saying that the chance that the Netherlands still has a lot of extra things to do, that it has to meet its objectives, is absent. If you finish those 23 objectives, you can see that we are pursuing orderly policies on each of these objectives. Then the reality is that the task for many other countries, I think, is that there are not ten or twenty countries that are already working on these objectives in the same way as the Netherlands is a much larger one. Is that completely out of the question? No. After the major migration crisis in 2015, African countries too, are faced more quickly than in the other, with the fact that their inhabitants find themselves in very miserable conditions when they find themselves in very bad conditions because of the lack of all kinds of orderly rules in their own country or because they cannot even migrate to a neighbouring country and thus immediately visit the boat to Europe, in very nasty conditions. There are more rapid agreements with one country than with the other, but steps have been taken in recent years. It is those kinds of processes that you can step up with this pact in hand; no more and no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u286	I'm only gonna ask you one more time. If you're honest as a cabinet about what you're going to do in Marrakesh, it's also part of that that you acknowledge that other countries can ask us in return, or in response, things that we can say yes or no to. By emphasising that it is an instrument for us to ask of others when we do not have to do anything ourselves. That is a bit of the tone of the cabinet letter, as I said in my first term. People think that's too good to be true. It's too good to be true, too. It's not like that. Negotiation is giving and taking. The Secretary of State knows that. He just might have to admit it a little more egalitarian in this Chamber. That's what I'm inviting him to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u287	Of course, Mr Van Ojik is right. I think I have already said that three times. Where we are not bound, another country is not bound, but at the same time I think you have a better starting point for a conversation. For example, when it comes to something that is common in many countries, such as the failure to provide travel documents and identification documents to nationals such as those in another country, we are stronger when we do not have homework in this area. The Netherlands has, for the past few years, well-organised............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In most cases that will not be overnight, but simply recognizing it by them, so that we can appeal to them politically for that purpose, we do have a better starting position than those other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u288	You will have the floor in a moment, Mr Baudet. I'd like to know how far the Secretary of State is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u289	I'm guessing about a third.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u290	Are we already at implementation in the Netherlands or not yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u291	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u292	Then it's good to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u293	Then I'll drop the word "implementation." I was with the statement of position, which has just been asked a few questions. I had noted how this was thought of and listed which elements should at least be included in it. We are currently discussing it with a number of European countries in order to come up with a joint text on this issue. I estimate that the process will continue until the time of the vote in the General Assembly in New York. So that has not yet been concluded at the United Nations Conference in Marrakesh, even if it is only because it is an opportunity to see whether countries want to participate and whether they still have wishes for such a text. As soon as such a text is ready and the statement of position is made at the UN, I will, of course, record it and ensure that it is forwarded to your Chamber. Since the statement of position is still being worked on, I have included in the letter to the House of Representatives the elements which should certainly be included in the Dutch cabinet. So that is also different from what Mr Van Dijk said, referring to the budget debate, namely that the text can apparently be amended. That is not the case. The text of the migration pact is final. That is the text that was sent out to all the UN Member States in June, and the UN says: you should speak out on this text. This declaration sets out the views of the Dutch cabinet, together with other European countries, on this pact, in order at least to neutralize that it could ever be interpreted differently. It contains elements of the Pact that have also found a place in the Pact itself. So that is not an amendment to the pact itself. I think I have also answered Mr Voordewind's question. Such a statement of position can also be made when there is an unjustified recourse to the Pact. Mrs Van Toorenburg also asked about one of the elements that we said should be highlighted in the statement of position, namely the provision of non-regression, which means as much as you should not tighten up your policy. That is not how non-regression stands in this pact. It is mentioned in paragraph 15 in the context of human rights. It cannot therefore be interpreted differently than that this Pact states that the existing minimum standards, as laid down in human rights conventions, must be respected. These human rights standards are now in place. They have been in the Netherlands for many years. The Pact will not change that. There is therefore no risk that the Pact would stand in the way of a possible future tightening of Dutch policy as long as the existing human rights obligations are respected. It is precisely that notion that the cabinet includes in the intended statement of position. I think it was Mr Krol who said: why are countries leaving destination? It is at the heart of the matter that countries are free to support or not to support the Pact. Nevertheless, I would like to say that I regret that some EU Member States are not participating, because this pact, as I explained earlier, could be particularly helpful as a diplomatic tool to improve cooperation with countries in the area of tackling irregular migration, smuggling, trafficking in human beings and return, and thus also for the joint dialogue that we want, especially at EU level, with many of them. The Netherlands, as has been said, makes its own, different assessment and sees added value in this pact, just like 180 other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u294	Have you now answered all the questions about the legal complications?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u295	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u296	Then there is a question from Mr Krol, although Mr Fritsma was there earlier. You want to connect with the answer? That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u297	I would like to reply to my question, Madam President. My question was, of course, why is it precisely the countries of destination that are going to drop out and not the countries of departure? I think that's an interesting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u298	Those are considerations in those countries themselves. I find it difficult to enter into the considerations of those countries. I note that many other countries of destination are simply participating in the Pact. So I think it's also about how you read that pact and whether you read things in it that just aren't in it. I went into that a few moments ago. This pact doesn't say you need to increase migration. It doesn't mean you have to pursue a more inviting policy. It just says that you have to arrange migration, that you have to provide it with decent rules about when people are or are not entitled to admission in the country, and above all that you have to make sure that those people who have legitimate residence, regular migrants, do not become disadvantaged and become second-class citizens. That's the pact, no more and no less. I see in the international debate that many countries as well as others often read things in the pact that are not in the pact. In doing so, they leave the opportunity to use this pact in the coming years and decades to take on board the very difficult talk of recent years about migration and limiting irregular migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u299	The Secretary of State has said a great deal about the legal consequences that there might or might not be. But a major problem around this whole migration pact is, of course, also the signal effect that it assumes. The ridiculous statement by Angela Merkel, "wir purchase tie," was, of course, not legally binding either, but look what misery it has brought. Look what kind of rush has come on Europe. Does the Secretary of State, apart from the legal consequences, really have no regard for the signaling effect of this pact? The Secretary of State supports the Pact and says: "We stand for open borders. We stand for facilitating regular migration. We stand for the rights of migrants and facilities for migrants." What do you think the message is towards migrants? You confirm the migrants in the idea that they can come here, that they are welcome and that they can get anything here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u300	There is nothing less true, on the contrary, I would say to Mr Fritsma. This isn't an invitation. This is one big plea to look at, now also for the first time on a large scale, with countries around the world, whether we can put an end to the excesses we have seen in recent years. There are many negative consequences of poorly regulated migration, of illegal migration, which are mentioned in this pact, and which is soon to be said in the UN that these are all negative consequences, which you would no longer want. I mentioned human trafficking. I mentioned trafficking in human beings. I have mentioned all the consequences of the situation that people think: I'm just going on this long journey and I'll see where I'm going. It's too much to mention. It is full of examples of negative aspects of migration that we should all tackle. If we talk positively about migration, it is only in the context of regulated, agreed, legal migration. All that falls outside is of the category of problems which the Pact states that we should no longer accept and therefore have to resolve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u301	Indeed, the Pact speaks of irregular migration. And do you know what the solution to this pact is? Irregular migrants in other words: simply give illegal migrants a residence permit. That is the solution to that pact. See Article 23, to be precise. The Secretary of State is really ignoring my question. It ignores the signal effect of supporting this pact. This pact divides the world into two groups of countries. Group 1 says we are in favour of open borders and mass immigration, come here. Group 2 - those are the United States, Australia, Hungary and perhaps Belgium - says: no, we do not want those open borders at all. Where do you think migrants will go? To the countries that support this pact or to those that do not support it? Get rid of the naivety, I'll tell the Secretary of State. What would the migrants choose, the red carpet or the countries that say they don't want to roll out the red carpet? Of course, they opt for weak, cowardly countries like the Netherlands, who simply want to facilitate mass immigration and Islamization.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u302	I do not recognize Mr Fritsma's dichotomy. This pact says no different than that countries can guard their borders, that they can see who is legally entering the country or not. It says that nowhere should we provide a residence permit for a person who is illegally resident in a country, that we should give them the same rights, duties and facilities as people who are legally resident in the country. It doesn't say anything. No one can deduce that from this pact, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u303	I invite everyone who has the pact in front of them to look into Article 23. That says that for irregular migrants case by case; sorry, it says in English "to see if there is a possibility for legalization." It's literally there. Then it's about illegals, about executed, which we normally say: you can't be here, because the judge has said you have to leave the Netherlands. Now it says in Article 23: we just have to look at all these people, at all these public cases, at how we can give them a residence permit. Read it!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u304	No, no. It concerns Objective 7.23. That is what Mr Fritsma is talking about. That is no different from, in Dutch: have an eye for vulnerabilities. Vulnerabilities, that does not then mean: a right of residence. We do no different in the Netherlands than for everyone, for everyone, the moment we get in touch with them somewhere, determine whether they are lawfully staying here or not. And if they don't have a legitimate residence, then we find that people have to leave the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u305	Mr Fritsma. Your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u306	I regret that we have to read out this pact here in order to be right. The Secretary of State simply denies facts. Article 23 (i) literally states that irregular migrants are illegals in UN jargon; it's just what you want to call them "on a case by case basis" to be assessed with a view to obtaining a regular status. So in the case of illegals, who have been tried out, we have to go on a case-by-case basis and see how we're going to give these people a residence permit. That's what it says right here. The solution of the United Nations in this immigration pact, the solution of the problem of irregular migration, is therefore the legalisation of illegal immigrants. That's crazy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u307	No, that's just not true. It would indeed be insane if what Mr Fritsma says is true. But that's not true. The objective itself states that you treat people individually, but that is also to determine individually that they do not have a lawful stay and therefore have to leave the country. If you still have to or want to introduce that objective as a country, because that's the word, it doesn't have to, but you can pursue it. You can look at that whole list of options, including point i, which Mr Fritsma also mentions. But it is a country's own free choice to do so. And I have news for Mr Fritsma. Everyone, including those who are not legally resident in the Netherlands and who are in contact with the authorities, makes the assessment individually, namely in the form of the finding that they are not allowed to be here and are given a return decision. That too is an individual decision that someone is given on the basis of which he must leave the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u308	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u309	With this I have reached the block of content and the 23 objectives. This has often been referred to in this debate. Just now, there was the shortest, most concise summary, namely: they are objectives that the government has established that the Netherlands already complies with. So in that respect, we don't have to look at the list of options. At the same time, we have been asked: do we not do anything about this text and do we not keep an eye on those objectives? There are, I think, elements on which we can improve our policies. I'll name one. Recently, I sent the plan of action on trafficking in human beings to the Lower House. We had the public kick-off this morning. One of the issues addressed in this Pact is labour exploitation, including regular migrants who may not know society. They are therefore particularly vulnerable to exploitation situations. That is one such example of an objective that the Netherlands has been pursuing for many years. The Labour Inspectorate checks that. In this cabinet and in this coalition agreement, we have said that we can add a little bit more to that. The Labour Inspectorate's budget has therefore also been increased to tackle labour exploitation. This is an example of which the cabinet itself says with this pact in its hand: we can add a little bit more to that. By the way, I note that the Netherlands has a long-standing policy on all these objectives. I can't make it any different for Mr Van Ojik, but the Netherlands doesn't see any homework in that. At the same time, with all the knowledge we have, we can help other countries that want to retrain their feet to realize that themselves. This is happening in full, including in the context of development cooperation. Some specific examples have been mentioned. Some have already been discussed, including media and freedom of expression. They are of course not for discussion in the Netherlands. When it comes to more legal migration, i.e. the use of legal migration routes, the cabinet has no intention of reaching a policy, other than the possibilities we already have for knowledge migration, employment permits, study, au-pairs or finding your partner abroad, provided you meet the integration requirements. So, no, we're not going to expand those possibilities any further. But the possibilities there are, there are. People can take advantage of that. Nor is it the case that we should further promote or promote migration under this Pact. What is happening, of course, is that the Netherlands has been providing information on the possibilities that exist for many years. When, for example, do you comply with the rules for a residence permit? That's what websites are for in multiple languages. At any embassy they can explain when you have the right to legally reside in the Netherlands and when you don't. What this pact aims to do is to give you proper information about it. For many people, however, the answer will often be no, because they do not have access to the Netherlands under these rules. Now for the climate refugees, to whom Mrs Ouwehand has asked. First of all, I should like to come back to the Pact on Refugees. This pact isn't about that. Climate is mentioned in this Pact, but not as a reason or right to migrate. In the event of climate or other natural disasters, this Pact calls on the UN Member States to take measures to curb them themselves. The Netherlands already does; we have a climate approach. Where people are displaced because of climate or natural violence, it is primarily up to neighbouring countries to see how it can be taken care of in the region. In this respect too, it does not say that this should take place in the Netherlands. But I suspect that is more a message to other groups in the Chamber than to Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u310	The Animal Party is not very impressed by the climate policy of this cabinet, because it is not really there. My question is about the fact that climate refugees are currently recognised as refugees, with the rights that go with them - only they really need to wash away for that. And yet there are already a lot of situations as a result of climate change that make people incredibly difficult. These people are still seen as migrants at the moment, for which we are not really going to do so much. My question was, what are we going to do for these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u311	We here in the Netherlands, together with all the countries that are parties to the climate agreement, are contributing to tackling this major issue of climate change. This pact says that the countries concerned and their neighbouring countries in the region should be better prepared for this by two lines: on the one hand, by adaptation, on the other, by looking at where people who are displaced as a result of these conditions can go to the region. This is not a reason or push factor to go straight to a continent further down, but it can simply be looked at if this can first be taken up in the region. In other words, this does not give rise to a new title to be legally resident anywhere in the Netherlands or in the European Union. That should be possible in the region. Otherwise, we in Europe will not be able to make it if we have to tell everyone from all the major regions of the world that it would no longer be necessary in the region, and that these people should be allowed to go to the farther reaches of the world and welcome there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u312	All that is true on paper, but my question is: when will it become concrete? When will we recognise in concrete terms that the Netherlands, and other wealthy Western countries too, are in any case well aware of the Netherlands, and that is what we are talking about here too: the situation of these people is getting worse? How does that come out? Or does the pact overlook that? Then the Party for Animals says: it does not have as much added value as we acknowledge on paper the root causes, but no one is willing to put their hands into their own bosom and say that the way we live here puts a disproportionate pressure on people's living conditions there, and that we therefore also have a responsibility to recognise them as climate refugees earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u313	I'm just maintaining the answer I just gave. On the climate issue, the Netherlands is taking measures to improve the global climate. And secondly, the Netherlands has comprehensive policy on the approach to the root causes under the heading of development cooperation. The Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation has based a large part of her policy on this very basic principle. It is precisely there that the Netherlands takes responsibility, and many more countries in the world can do so. And it is a good thing that that is also the starting point in this pact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u314	No. On paper, the Netherlands does that. On paper, we recognize those root causes. But the Netherlands, as well as the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, has not yet said that the way in which we have set up our economy is crossing the boundaries of the earth and making it more difficult for people there. My question is: if this Secretary of State comes here in this Chamber to tell and defend that we need to regulate migration, that that is a good idea, that no one is waiting for migration flows and the people who do not at all, is he going to take that next step and say with the Monitor Brede Prosperity in hand as the first country to say that now is the time that we bring our own rich western consumption pattern into that discussion? Is he gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u315	No, not in the way Mrs Ouwehand asks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u316	Then I'd like to see how far you're at answering all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u317	I think it's a long way from being upset.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u318	What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u319	There's about four, five more questions, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u320	I see Mr Van Ojik standing, but I suggest you answer all these questions first. Mr Van Ojik will then be given the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u321	Then I'll walk by those questions. Mr Bishop came up with a comparison which, in my view, did not go well, namely with the statement made a few years ago on bed-bath bread. That statement was precisely that it was non-binding and that the Netherlands was not obliged to do it either. He made the comparison that such a pact, or charter, had brought it to this point. That is simply not the case. We've now made agreements with municipalities. We have chosen politically, without any legal obligation to do so, linked to a condition for return. So you can also make that condition. There is no unbridled right to care; on the contrary. Mr Krol actually asked for a review of Mr Bishop's column in this morning's Dutch daily. Of course, it's a little special to do that. But I must point out to Mr Bishop here, through Mr Krol's question, that his column contains a number of principles which are simply not in the Pact. Contrary to what Mr Bishop said in his column, that pact explicitly states that a distinction may be made between regular and irregular migrants. His claim that return is not regulated in the Pact is also incorrect, because the Pact points to the moral duty of countries to take back their nationals. To this end, it is important to provide their travel documents and consular assistance. In short, these are the starting points for addressing these countries on their responsibilities. I really do not agree with Mr Bishop's assertion that the Pact would encourage human trafficking. On the contrary, the objective of the Pact is precisely to limit irregular migration and its negative consequences. It also calls on Member States to step up their efforts to tackle trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. I think we have exchanged enough on all the optional policy options before in the debate. Mr. Chairman. Then the implementation. Implementation of the Pact is primarily up to the Member States themselves. It is also the choice of the Member States themselves to what extent they want and want to achieve the objectives. I have already noted that Dutch policy is in line with the objective. In addition, national priorities and national policies are explicitly taken into account. In that sense, it is not a program either, or a checklist that needs to be checked. A meeting of countries will then take place every two years to consider the voluntary implementation of that pact. I think that will be the first few times, above all, a meeting where many problems will come along and where many countries will be called on politically again if they are completely behind all these 23 objectives, to see if they can pull a leg. That's not weird either. This is much more common in international discussions of this kind. Think, for example, of the progress reported and monitored in the framework of the Valletta Action Plan between the European Union and the African Union. Mr Bishop asked for a specific example on Morocco and readmission. I have already said at the beginning of the debate that the conversation will not be rosy overnight, but with this pact in hand we can try to intensify that conversation further. Perhaps we could also appeal to Morocco, because the meeting where this pact is being discussed is taking place in Morocco's host country. This may, therefore, give some extra pressure to achieve the objectives set out in the Pact. Mr Krol said: when are we going to make agreements with countries? I have already said at the beginning that this will not be settled overnight, but we are going to intensify the discussions once this pact has been adopted in the General Assembly. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a number of members have asked for the other global compact, the global compact on refugees, the global pact for refugees. You will receive a letter very soon about this with information and the cabinet's position. This letter is sent to the Chamber by the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, in particular because the Pact for Refugees is mainly concerned with an issue that had to be addressed worldwide: how do we properly fill in reception in the region? Refugees need protection and reception, so an asylum status and a roof over their heads. This has already been settled in the European Union, in our asylum system and under the UN Refugee Convention and the ECHR 100%. This is particularly challenging for the rest of the world. The cabinet will soon inform you more about what that is about. I am therefore at the end of my speech in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u322	I had a question earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u323	Yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u324	If I may, I will take my question with me on this last point. The refugee pact, as I call it, has been online for weeks. That's already done. The Secretary of State is now saying that we will soon be hearing a little more about it, but that is already available. I would think, and I say this to myself: if we have learned one thing from the absence of a debate on the migration pact, it is that you should send such a piece to the Chamber as soon as possible and say what you think. You've been negotiating it for two years, so you know exactly what you think. I don't think that's gonna take weeks. So my first question is why it takes so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u325	And the second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u326	This was about the point to which the Secretary of State referred earlier, a central question in this debate: what exactly does this pact mean for the Netherlands? I found it interesting what the Secretary of State just said: in the area of trafficking in human beings, it is a point. Very good, because who is opposed to combating this as much as possible? But now the letter says: insofar as we do not comply with what is in that pact, it is up to states "to decide whether or not to be inspired by the options contained in the pact in national policy." If it is true that every state can simply decide whether or not to do something, then that is very little. I don't think that's in the text either, because that says...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u327	Yeah, you said that, but what's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u328	Whether the Secretary of State can explain the difference between what is in his letter, namely that it is up to states to choose between options or not, and what is in the Pact, namely that a number of options should be chosen. That's really something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u329	I do so from the point of view of whether a Member State meets the 23 objectives. That is a first choice that Member States are making. No, following the adoption of the Pact in January, not all Member States will meet the 23 targets the next day. But I find that the Netherlands already meets those 23 goals. I've given you an example of where there's another tooth, no matter what we do. That puts us in the leading group of the world. Moreover, we can still tighten up policy in the future. These objectives do not stand in the way of this. UN Member States that do not meet many goals and still have a lot of homework to do can draw on the non-binding options. Those Member States are also free to do so or not, or otherwise to meet those objectives. They are nothing more and nothing less than inspiration for the Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u330	Does the Secretary of State think that an asylum seeker who has been tried in the Netherlands could go to court with the compact in his hand, and could force him to wait for his expulsion in freedom, under Article 27c?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u331	No, because that's not what the processed asylum seeker is gonna do. The reason for this is, and in order to strengthen this, there are many proposals in Europe that, under the existing European asylum legislation, the asylum seeker who has been brought to justice can make that appeal. In a number of cases the judge goes along with it, and in a number of cases the judge says that the detention of aliens is still at issue. It's all taken care of. That's not what this pact is about. If only because, in Mr Baudet's example, we are talking about an asylum seeker who has called for protection as a refugee, and that is not what this whole pact is about. This pact is about migration, about regular migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u332	That is not true, because this pact is about legal and illegal migration. Hatchie!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u333	Cheers!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u334	The Pact grants human rights regardless of their status. So it's definitely not true. Does the Secretary of State think that... Hatchie!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u335	Cheers!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u336	I'm just getting allergic to the shit we're getting all over us today!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u337	I thought emotionally!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u338	Does the Secretary of State think that on the basis of this pact, you could successfully sue the Dutch State, at the time when we would decide to prosecute people who come to the Netherlands via human trafficking?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u339	Well, I don't think so. If only, and then I repeat everything I said earlier, because it is legally non-binding. However, we have no intention of doing so either. As far as human trafficking is concerned, we want to tackle the smugglers of human beings. The fact that those who have been smuggled are not entitled to legal residence is also beyond doubt. But the question is whether you should punish them extra on top of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u340	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u341	That's not the point, is it? That's exactly...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u342	Don't point, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u343	But the first answer is: no, with the pact in hand it will not succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u344	That is precisely why Austria is not going to Marrakesh. They say: okay, maybe we now have an immigration policy that more or less meets the things mentioned here, but perhaps we do not want to do or do a number of things in the future. And you're gonna say, "But we're all gonna do this." Yes, but with that you bind future generations and with that also future voters in the Netherlands. This means that we no longer have the freedom to pursue more stringent policies. And you say it exactly: "No, because we do not intend to prosecute people who have come to the Netherlands via a human smuggler." Well, that's how you rule your grave. You say that if we are to have another government that wants to change the policy, it will no longer be possible, because it is already in this pact. And the pact can't be cancelled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u345	No, because it's a pact. Look, you can cancel a treaty. It is a pact, which, in that sense, is as non-binding as a resolution or a motion. You can't cancel that either. That is an important argument or a characteristic of being why it is not enforceable. But to Mr Baudet's question as to whether you can tighten up policy in the future, I refer to what I said earlier in this debate, precisely about the non-regression clause: yes, that is possible. The Netherlands has a very high standard. If that's what you choose, you might want to tighten it up and tighten it up. In fact, there are also tightenings in the coalition agreement, and they are just possible with this pact in hand. The bottom really is the basic human rights standards we have agreed on. And that is what we want to meet, but then you come to the very basic human rights standards that have been in force worldwide for many years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u346	I still have a question about these 23 objectives. On the one hand, the Secretary of State states that we do meet this requirement, even if we can add a tooth to it. On the other hand, I read in the letter that we "greatly" comply with it. Can the Secretary of State say again which of these objectives we do not yet meet, if it is "largely"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u347	I have given an example of labour exploitation. This is part of Objective 6. We have a policy on that. There's a little bit of a tooth for that. That's what we choose. We will continue to do so in the years to come. By the way, if you go all the way through these objectives, you can see that they all have their impact in Dutch policy. We do not need to change this Dutch policy on the basis of this pact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u348	Then I note that the Netherlands is broadly in line with it, but then there is of course still the question of what the Netherlands is going to do with this signature to other countries, to combat these smugglers and traffickers. What actions will the Secretary of State see in the future, if we have voted in favour of this pact, for example, to go to Libya with this pact, and I assume Libya will sign it and see how we can deal with the smuggling of human beings there together?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u349	First of all, because I keep fixing the misunderstanding: nothing is signed. This is a vote at the UN General Assembly, with this pact adopted in the form of a resolution at the end of the session. It will then be a document containing the relevant positions of the UN, which may have relevance for all UN Member States. Then what do you do with the pact in hand? This will be a follow-up to what has already been achieved in recent years, for example after last year's summit in Abidjan between the European Union and the African Union, where for the first time African countries have recognised that trafficking in human beings is deeply affecting the lives of nationals of African countries. They are ready to fight these smugglings step by step, and they take a step-by-step approach to their own country's migration policies and how they deal with their own nationals. That is exactly the type of conversation that the Netherlands and other European countries want to intensify in the coming period, because it is one of the cornerstones of the type of agreements referred to in the coalition agreement for how to manage irregular migration to Europe much better in the future than in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u350	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u351	Mr President, concluding. When we were in Libya, we met a commander of a port station where refugees picked up from the sea came back. If we come across that again, we will join forces with a number of other countries in the fight to address Libya.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u352	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u353	Yes, exactly as we did last year, but with the difficulty that Libya may be one of the most intricate countries on earth, even if it is only because of the question of which government you actually have there to address.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u354	I just want to get it sharp. The Secretary of State has actually said all evening: there are all goals and the Netherlands has already done their homework on all these goals, so nothing changes for the Netherlands. I would like to take a look at objective 2: that the Netherlands commit itself with this pact to ensure that the conditions in which people have to live are such that they do not feel compelled to migrate. The answer of the Secretary of State is: everything you could think of for that, the Netherlands has already done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u355	The Pact works towards each Member State and is therefore primarily a task for Member States themselves. The goal is therefore directly to the Netherlands: what are we doing here, in the Netherlands, on our own territory? With regard to the root causes that we in the Netherlands might be able to do a little more about, Mrs Ouwehand will undoubtedly aim at climate policy. Well, that's what we're doing in the Netherlands. A second derivative that you might see is that we are also helping other countries to tackle root causes. Natural circumstances are mentioned. The Netherlands has a fantastic development policy. I think it is too much for a number of groups in the Chamber, but at least it is being used more and more, especially to combat root causes of migration. In doing so, we meet Objective 2 along both lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u356	Okay, so we have to conduct climate policy in the Netherlands, because that has to be especially on your own territory. But if there are major disadvantages of the Dutch and European fisheries policy, because, for example, we fish in Africa's waters, if our trade policy has a negative impact on people's living conditions, if we dump European subsidies on African markets, then the Secretary of State actually says: it is properly written here, root causes and so on, but the Netherlands will not be called upon to do so under objective 2. Is that what he's saying here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u357	No, I say that we from the Netherlands really have very orderly policies for this purpose. With this pact in hand, this debate should in any case not be provided with new fuel or energy, other than the regular debate on these issues which is often held in this Chamber with colleagues in the cabinet. But the Pact does not offer any additional starting points to say: now the Netherlands has to do this or that even differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u358	Thank you. Then we have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u359	I'd like a suspension...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u360	I can't hear you. Why don't you go to the Interrupt Microphone? I understand you have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u361	Can I, please, get a one-minute suspension to pick up the printed motions so I can file them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u362	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u363	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u364	Then we wait until Mr Baudet has printed out his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u365	Let's move on to the second term of office. Mr Baudet has his motion with him. I call Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u366	Thank you, Madam President. I'd like to make three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Marrakesh Immigration Pact severely restricts the possibilities for the Netherlands to shape our own immigration policy and will have a strong effect on immigration from Africa and the Middle East to the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas both through the obligation to implement Article 41 and through judicial interpretations, this Pact will find its way to the national legal order, seriously undermining national sovereignty;]] [[calls on the government not to support the Marrakesh Immigration Pact,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the results of the analysis carried out by the Secretary of State on the legal implications of the Marrakesh Immigration Pact are not in line with the analyses carried out by many specialists in the field of international law;]] [[noting that doubts about the legal consequences of the immigration pact, whether or not combined with a so-called statement of position, have increased and not diminished;]] [[Whereas a decision which may have very far-reaching and irreversible consequences should not be taken until there is full clarity as to its precise consequences for the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Council of State to give the Chamber a second opinion on the legal consequences of the Marrakesh Immigration Pact as a matter of urgency,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30573-155]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30573-156]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u367	Correct. Sure. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the decision to support the Marrakech Immigration Pact has been very careless;]] [[noting that the Court was very poorly informed about the progress of the case;]] [[whereas the government had already taken a position on the Pact before the legal analysis of the impact of the Pact had been completed;]] [[whereas the Secretary of State for Justice and Security has acted carelessly and disdainfully on this issue;]] [[rejects the action of the Secretary of State,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30573-157]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u368	This motion has been co-signed by the other half of my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u369	And that is Mr Hiddema, for those who do not know. Then Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u370	For my understanding, can we vote on this motion later this week? It's a motion that the Secretary of State sends home when she's adopted. I got that right, didn't I? So I'm gonna take a look at the chairman. What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u371	From a constitutional point of view, a motion of censure is not the same as a motion of censure, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u372	Anyway, we're going to vote on Thursday. Because that vote must actually take place before the Marrakesh conference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u373	Yeah, at least it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u374	That's what we're gonna do on Thursday. Thank you, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u375	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u376	Then Mr Fritsma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u377	Mr. Chairman. We have a cabinet that no longer stands up for the Dutch people in any way, a cabinet that leaves its own Dutch citizens horribly in the lurch, makes strangers in its own country and even lags behind immigrants. Supporting the Marrakesh Pact is a new low. This agreement sends the signal to all migrants that the Netherlands is rolling out the red carpet for them, that the Netherlands thinks immigration is positive. An enrichment of society, as it literally states in the pact. In addition, there is no guarantee that Dutch judges will not give any weight to this pact. The only thing that can guarantee that is simply not supporting the pact. Unfortunately, however, the courage of countries like Australia and Hungary does not have this cabinet. This cabinet bows to the advocates of the terrible open border policy and lets the citizen pay a far too high price for it, because mass immigration and the import of Islam are obviously not in his or her interest. The cabinet was supposed to leave. The motion of censure tabled today and supported by the PVV was therefore more than justified. It won't be long until the cabinet doesn't get away with giving away the Netherlands. The PVV is convinced of this and we will continue to work for it. I can conclude with that comment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u378	Thank you, Mr. Fritsma. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u379	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by thanking the Secretary of State for the correct and careful answer to the questions. It is not surprising that I think so, of course, but the answer as such has been very thorough. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, I've been wondering how it is that you come to such different interpretations with the same text that you take as colleagues and also from the cabinet. I think this is what's going on. I can see optimism among a number of my fellow Members: now we have an instrument in our hands that allows us to avoid the misery of 2015 by speaking to each other in a reasonable manner globally, i.e. globally. I get that. But I am also tasting a number of colleagues, and I count myself on that, the tendency to reason much more from the basic underlying ideas. And then you come to the conclusion that there is a very positive view of migration, namely that migration only brings about positive forces. Then you come to a completely different interpretation of seemingly innocent sentences. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the review of my column. I was gonna walk past the points, but my time's pretty much over, so I'm gonna let it go. Thanks; also a negative review is positive, I'll say. But I shall confine myself to tabling a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is essential that a migration pact does justice to both the interests of the countries of origin and the countries of destination, and that a clear distinction should be made between the lawful and unlawful residence of foreign nationals when granting rights;]] [[having noted that several countries have now withdrawn their support for the Migration Pact;]] [[calls on the Government not to support this migration pact and to seek adjustments in the international community to address the shortcomings and uncertainties identified,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30573-158]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u380	Mr President, thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u381	Thank you. Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u382	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Secretary of State for the way he has answered the questions. I do not have any motions, but I have learned two things from the debate. You look surprised, Mr. Chairman, but sometimes you learn something. The first is, in fact, that I have already said in an interruption that you cannot have this kind of debate early enough. Again, that's what I'm putting on myself. I think that we can no longer work with treaties, pacts or agreements that have been negotiated for years and which then suddenly lead to a political debate at the end of the day, because then it is richly late. That brings me to the global compact on refugees, the refugee pact. The version I have here is the final version. It's from June 26, 2018, now about five months ago. I think it would be good if we'd already had it from the cabinet. The Secretary of State says I'll do it in a few weeks. But actually, there is no reason why we couldn't have had that long ago. We could have had that and we could have heard what the cabinet thought about it, because the cabinet negotiated it. This is not new to the cabinet, but this is the product of the cabinet. So that's lesson one. Lesson two, and I conclude with that, is that it is incredibly important that a cabinet communicates openly and honestly about what it has agreed internationally. I will mention one specific point: the Secretary of State may be able to comment on that. If you say that what you have agreed on can encourage other countries to adopt certain policies, and that is why you agree with it, then that is the reverse. It is difficult to accept and to think that we can use the Pact to bring other countries into line with certain policies, whereas other countries cannot use the Pact to bring us into line with certain policies. I don't mind that at all, but I'd like the cabinet to discuss it openly and communicate with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u383	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u384	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Secretary of State, too. According to the Secretary of State, the pact does not have any effect. Can the Secretary of State undertake that if, within six months of adoption by the United Nations, it appears that he is mistaken, the Netherlands will still distance itself from the Pact? I have four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to develop future scenarios regarding the composition and size of the population on the basis of multiple migration models and to submit them to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to declare that the endorsement of the Marrakesh Pact takes place with the intention of reducing undesirable migration to the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas return policy is an important pillar of migration policy;]] [[whereas the return policy is not going well at present and many illegal immigrants are not being taken back by the countries of origin;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the powerful instruments, financial or otherwise, at its disposal, which can be effectively deployed in the near future to make the return policy a success,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30573-159]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30573-160]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30573-161]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u385	The defence by the cabinet did not change the position of 50PLUS on the Pact. We shall therefore vote against it. Finally, a very brief motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to endorse the Pact,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30573-162]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u386	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u387	Thank you, Mr. Krol. Then I'll go to Mr. Grothuizen. No? Then I'm going to see Mr Azmani. No? Then I will go to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u388	Mr. Chairman. It remains unclear what exactly the functioning of this pact is. It is strange to say that for us this has no effect, but for those other countries it does. For what, I'll tell you what. Then the SP Group is concerned about an increase in labour migration, as a means of exchange, for example, when the Secretary of State comes into his hands with the Pact in African countries. For the SP, the reception of people in need is important, but for economic migrants there is no place. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas labour migration can lead to exploitation, unfair competition and displacement;]] [[points out that economic migration cannot be enforced in any way on the basis of the UN Migration Pact,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Kikken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30573-163]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u389	Thank you, Mr President. It is a strange story: the pact is full of agreements and the Netherlands would have filled in all these agreements long ago, including the incredibly important approach to the root causes for the Party for Animals. It is good that that goal is in it, but apparently the Netherlands is not a root cause. I would remind the Secretary of State of our fisheries policy, Dutch and European. I remind the Secretary of State of the raw materials we get from Africa in exchange for weapons and contributions to war. And I remind you of the failing climate policy. We're heading for a contribution to global warming at 3°C in proportion; that doesn't help any of these people. Mr. Chairman. We are not comfortable with that, because the people fleeing from a deteriorating environment are only seen as real refugees in very extreme cases and fall under the heading of migration until then. This cabinet does nothing to establish the link between the deterioration of living conditions, in which we play a major role, and defending the importance of a humane relationship with these people. The UN Human Rights Council has warned about this before: you really need to deal with it carefully, otherwise you are undermining the support for a humane asylum and refugee policy. Mr. Chairman. We are still not convinced after this evening, so I will discuss with my group whether or not we can support this pact. But the way in which the cabinet handles it is not satisfactory, as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u390	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. We have now reached the end of the second term of office. I think nine motions have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u391	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u392	Mr. Chairman. I wrote down three more questions. The first is from Mr Van Ojik about the compact on refugees. I would add that, of course, it is not the case that there has never been communication to the Chamber. This applies to the Pact, but also to the Pact on Migration. In the last two years, we have sent at least nine letters to the Chamber on the pact we are discussing this evening, which discussed the commitment and progress made. They are equally concerned with the Pact on Refugees. After the summer, there has been constant consultation on the migration pact, but in the knowledge that that vote would not be the next week, so to speak. The Marrakesh conference is next week. The vote is in my knowledge before January, or, if it is brought forward, in the third week of December. That is also when you decide, if that becomes clear, to submit the cabinet position to the Chamber again. That letter will not come in a few weeks' time, but in the short term the cabinet will present a letter on the pact on refugees. The second question was whether I would like to confirm that it is mutual, namely that if it is not binding on us, it is also not binding on others. I think I have said this several times in the debate. But at the same time, I think this is too trivialising the pact. Indeed, it is important for countries under the UN flag to dare to take a step forward in order to see if, if we want to improve our policies in all that freedom and with all the opportunities to go about it ourselves, we can put some principles on paper on a global scale. I think that is worth it, because we didn't, and that conversation is urgently needed. In that respect, it is really a diplomatic instrument. Mr Krol asked the question about whether or not to establish after six months of suction. Of course, that does not happen in this way either, even if it is because the migration balance is also such a point that in the first term of the Chamber a number of times came forward, of course, also moves along with the economy. Every time it was said that 235.000 people came to the Netherlands last year, but what was omitted was that in the same year 155.000 people left the Netherlands and that the balance is largely related to people from the EU. The increase last year was mainly caused by, for example, UK students starting a study in the Netherlands because of the forthcoming Brexit. Nor can it be said, on the basis of this pact, that there is or is not an astounding effect. It also moves a little along with the economy and there will also be a lower migration balance for years. To be honest, I'm assuming so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u393	Short question, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u394	Of course, you cannot say that the only relevant figure is the net migration balance. The point is that the people who leave are very often very different people than the people who come. The Forum for Democracy sometimes says: we are not only an anti-immigration party, but also an anti-emigration party. We see that many enterprising Dutch people leave the Netherlands because they no longer feel at home in this country, because Islamization brings them to their heart, because the entrepreneurial climate is so suffocated because the VVD is constantly allowing mass immigration and all taxes to accumulate on idiotic, absurd climate goals. So I would like to point out to you that you cannot just say that 235.000 people have come to the Netherlands, but that a lot of people have gone away, that this is not so bad and that you can cross this off against each other. It's more like adding it up. As more native Dutch move away, the impact of immigration becomes all the greater. You can also see this in popular neighbourhoods where people leave, such as Amsterdam-Noord and other places.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u395	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u396	The Dutch are moving away and immigrants are coming in. Those two are mutually reinforcing. That will cause us to lose our identity in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u397	I answered Mr Krol's question. That question was indeed about the migration balance. In the direction of Mr Baudet, I say that a lot of things are being put in one blender and that a kind of mix is being made of them. The truth is that both the group that emigrates and the group that immigrates is much more diverse in composition than Mr Baudet now suggests. To a large extent, it has to do with movements within the European Union. By its nature it is often temporary, such as people who work in another country for a few years and then go back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u398	Then I would suggest that you continue, because this subject will certainly come back, even here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u399	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the motions. The motion in part No. Mr Baudet and Mr Hiddema called on the government not to support the Pact. On the basis of the argument I made tonight, I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 156 is not addressed to the government, but to the Chamber. I am therefore abstaining from any judgment on this matter. The motion in part No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u400	The motion in part No. 157 is also addressed to the Chamber. It's a motion of censure. Because I know that the Secretary of State is in Brussels on Thursday in connection with the JHA Council, I would actually like to propose that we vote on all the motions tomorrow. Anybody mind? No? We'll vote on all the motions tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u401	Mr President, thank you, because that would otherwise have been my request, hearing that the votes were scheduled for Thursday. In that sense, I find a motion of censure, which rejects the policy, a serious motion of censure. I would have asked the Chamber to give an opinion on this as soon as possible, because I think that is the only right way to move between the government and the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u402	Clear. Then the motion to part No. 158.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u403	The motion in part No. 158 also calls for this pact not to be supported. On the basis of the argument given, I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 159 I find a special motion, because exactly what is in this motion has already been embraced by the cabinet in the General Reviews. I don't remember whether it was a motion or a commitment; as far as I know it was a motion. We're working on that. So that motion is literally completely superfluous, and I'm off the line "unneeded means dissuade'. The motion in part No. 160 introduces a new concept, i.e. "unwanted migration." I think that the debate will be even more complicated if we have to establish what is 'unwelcome'. I indicated earlier in the debate that one of the objectives of the Pact is to reduce irregular migration. Moreover, there are more objectives, but that is indeed one of the government's intentions. If "unwanted" were to be replaced by "irregular," then I could go along with it, but in this form I must dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u404	I'd give you the floor, Mr. Krol, but I don't know what it was about anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u405	The Secretary of State asks me to replace "unwanted" with "irregular." I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u406	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u407	Then I can give her judgment Chamber, knowing it's not the only intention. We have many more objectives, but this is one of the objectives. The motion in part No. 161 calls for a study of the other instruments available to make the return policy a success. We have already indicated at a number of times in this year what instruments you might think of. These have been provided in various government notes. So I don't think there's any need for additional research. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. The motion in part No. 162 is also a motion calling for the pact not to be endorsed. I'd advise against it. The motion in part No. 163 confirms, as it were, what I said in the debate: with this pact in hand, you have no right or opportunity to enforce economic migration. That is why I leave the judgment to the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u408	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u409	I would like to thank the Secretary of State, the Members of Parliament, the people who have followed this debate in one way or another, the staff, the officials, the messengers and the clerks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u410	I have a very small point, Mr. Chairman. Can my motion be put to the vote first thing tomorrow? Our assessment of the other motions depends on the outcome of the vote on my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-04-tweedekamer-50.u411	Anybody mind? No? Then that's what we're gonna do. Thank you. We are therefore going to vote tomorrow on the motions tabled.
