ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-4.u1	We are now going to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks. I don't see the Minister of Medical Care yet, but he's gonna be here any minute. There he is. I give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks for her question to the Minister for Medical Care about the availability of the contraceptive pill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Last Thursday, we read in NRC that the contraceptive pill is virtually unavailable. That is a very big problem, because more than 40% of women between the ages of 18 and 45 swallow the pill. We have now gone a little further and the problem has still not been resolved. Only next week can the first supplier deliver the pill again and many other suppliers can only deliver the pill again on 15 October. So that's a month away. This means that many women have been without contraception until then. If another pill is still available, they may be at risk of unwanted side effects. I therefore have the following questions to the Minister. First of all: does he share GroenLinks' concerns that the contraceptive pill is now barely available? Does he have an overview of the deficits but also of the local availability of the pill in pharmacists? Has the Minister spoken to pharmacists and health insurers about the situation that has arisen now? Who, according to the Minister, is responsible for the proper supply of medicines? Finally, what is the Minister going to do to deal with this problem as well as possible these weeks? In what way is he going to help all the women who have faced this? How does he intend to prevent us from having to deal with such a situation again in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I also read the message in the NRC. I must add, however, that this is one brand of contraceptive pill. Fortunately, we have many different types of birth control pills in this country. So even though that one brand, at least in one packaging, is temporarily unavailable, many other pills are available and also pills of the same brand are available in another packaging. This is a different matter in that it is not the case that women are no longer able to go to the pharmacy for birth control pills. I would like to emphasise this. Point two: the cause of the failure to deliver must be found in a production malfunction or in a raw material malfunction. We don't know that. If the problem is caused by the non-availability of a raw material, then it is also a good thing that it is not available, because a medicine must of course be safe. Speaker will not disagree with me. So again, this medicine is not available. Of a single other product, availability is sometimes at issue and not properly regulated, but there are many other contraceptive pills available. So I do not really share the concerns to the extent to which the speaker raises the point. Then the questions are whether I know where the deficits are and what is available. Yeah, sure, we have an overview, and so do you. We can all read on a website which medicines are not available. That does not apply in general, but very precisely. You can find a lot of information about the fabric and packaging. I think it is a responsibility of the suppliers, together with the pharmacists, together with the wholesaler, to ensure that those medicines are there. That is why we have set up a hotline. If deficits threaten, they can be reported there so that you can agree with each other on how to provide for the gap that has arisen. That generally works very well. I believe that this means, which is also being written in the NRC, will soon be available again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-4.u5	Also for directors, they should be short and powerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-4.u6	I must say that I find it really worrying how this Minister trivializes this problem for many women. For many women their contraceptive pill is now unavailable and temporarily switching to another pill, can lead to a lot of serious side effects. This is the problem I'm talking about. This problem now exists for these women. I have not really heard the Minister propose a solution for these women who are now struggling with this problem. This will take a number of weeks, as the article also shows. So I'd like another comment on that. What does the Minister want to do for these women? In addition, I have a question about the underlying cause. The Minister says that the cause is not the availability of raw materials. But that is not the whole story, because the underlying cause of the shortage of this medicine and other medicines is also the strict preference policy of health insurers. They only pay for the cheapest medicine. Let me be clear: GroenLinks is not against preferential policy, but we should not go beyond financing the cheapest medicines. That makes us vulnerable. We can see that now. And that's why I'm asking the Minister if we haven't gone through paying for just the cheapest drugs. Is the Minister prepared to adapt preference policy where necessary and to discuss it with health insurers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-4.u7	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-4.u8	I must reply briefly, Mrs Ellemeet, not from myself but from the President. So I will. Of course, it is important to note that medicines must be safe. So if there is a source of raw material behind the failure to deliver this contraceptive, then I would prefer it not to be available, so that we can see how it can be delivered safely. That's at the service of all women. Fortunately, there are other medicines with the same active substance. If one cannot be delivered safely, then I would prefer it to be possible to switch to another means than that there is no alternative at all. Fortunately, there are many alternatives. Let me turn to the article on preferential or preferential policy. For women up to 21, the pill is in the basic package, not up there. So only for a few percent of this pill use can you say that preference policy applies. For 85% or perhaps 90% there is no preference policy at all, because then the pill is simply paid for by the woman herself or by supplementary insurance. That has nothing to do with an insurer's choice. So I don't really see that point. Nor do I think that there is a policy of preference that has been broken down.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mrs. Agema, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the moment, I think there are a lot of women at home with raised eyebrows in front of television because a minister here says: well, if one pill is not accessible, then there are so many other pills. That's not how it works, I'd like to say to the Minister. For a woman it is often a very long search for just that one pill when it comes to side effects and composition of the medicine. Then it is rather bizarre that the Minister should respond to this issue in this way. That's what I wanted to say, Mr. Chairman. I also wanted to ask you something. We are increasingly seeing that there are delivery problems with medicines. What I would like from the Minister is a plan of action. So no weird listings like he did that there are plenty of other pills available. No, wider, whether it's the insurers, the deliveries, you name it. I ask for a plan of action when it comes to the security of supply of medicines, much wider than the pill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-4.u13	I would like to answer: safety for everything. In this case, what the article is about, a batch of these contraceptives has been rejected. This is either due to a lack of production or to a lack of raw materials. If that drug isn't safe, I'm glad the system works that way. And then it's really annoying, really annoying that the drug is not available, and fortunately it's temporary but rather temporary interference rather than being placed on the market unsafely. I'll stick with that. Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, we have a well-functioning system in which all interested parties report when there is a shortage or a shortage, so that an alternative can be sought, for example not for six months but for three months, contact other suppliers or possibly take medicines from abroad. So there's a whole package of measures. So I wasn't going to make a new plan of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mrs Van den Berg, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mr. Chairman. I would like to make two points on which I have questions for the Minister. Firstly, the side effects of each medicine, and in particular its adjustment. I think the Minister's going over that rather easily. Everyone knows what the consequences may be of not being properly absorbed from the pill. I should like to have a further reply from the Minister. Then the second. The CDA, my predecessor, has already drawn attention to drug shortages. We see that this is becoming a structural problem. Last Saturday in De Telegraaf there was a whole list of other medicines, even for oncology, which are not available at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-4.u16	I repeat: I see very clearly that regulating the contraceptive pill is very important. But one thing is even more important: safety when that pill comes on the market. If there is a gap in production because a raw material is not available, or because there is an impurity in the process, we don't know what the cause is; it's always important that safety be paramount. I keep emphasising that. I think it is very important that we have safe medicines on the market. Of course, I do not want to take an advance, but it is important to note that for the active substance in this contraceptive pill there are other pills with the same active substance. The question then is whether the settlement is a big or a small issue. It's about the same active substance. Then there is the more general question of the availability of medicines, or the drug shortages. As I have just said, there are practical arrangements for finding alternatives if that one means for a particular patient is not present. I understand very well that many people have an eye for this and think it is very important, but I also see in practice that pharmacists and wholesalers are now holding smaller stocks, while larger stocks have been held in the past. That's what the pharmacy or the wholesaler is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-4.u17	One aspect that has not yet been discussed is that women must now resort to a pill that is more expensive. I assume that those who are compensated for the contraceptive pill from the basic package will also receive a more expensive pill. But of course it is also about the group that pays it itself and perhaps in the supplementary insurance it has agreements with the insurer. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to this. What are these women going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-4.u18	As I said, it is only a small group of women, 10% to 15%, namely the age group up to 21, who, through the basic package, has insurance for this contraceptive pill. If it is not available, the alternative may be a little more expensive. If you are insured through the package, you have no financial disadvantage, but the vast majority of women, if the medicine is more expensive, will find that it is more expensive or have to pay for it themselves. That's a fact. I don't want to beat around the bush either. Then, of course, still the question is whether you can buy it for a short period of time rather than for a long one. At least you won't be charged for a lot of extra costs. This point is also mentioned in the newspaper article. I acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you.
