ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u1	Let us now turn to Mr Kops' question, on behalf of the PVV, to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, whom I would also like to welcome, about making our own house more energy efficient. I call Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. All homes must get off the gas, everyone must get on the heat pump and on each roof there must be solar panels. That's what this cabinet wants. But has the Minister ever wondered whether the people at home want to do the same? Probably not, because the opinion of the citizens does not matter for this cabinet, which, by the way, has ruined the referendum. Because, Chairman, what do we read in the paper? "Green compulsion torment - Homeowner without demands." What does it turn out to be, Mr. Chairman? Homeowners are not waiting for this so-called sustainability, with the emphasis on "expensive"! And rightly so, because it's priceless. That's only gonna get worse in the next few days. Even now, the energy bill is rising to an priceless level. Next year €150 will be added with ease. And let's face it, that's just not something that's sustainable. And then the climate agreement isn't even final. So that means that the biggest financial blow is ahead of us. How does the Minister see that as people are already dropping out because they don't want it and can't afford it? Is the Minister prepared to put a stop to this expensive policy, simply because of a lack of enthusiasm? It may sound a little unusual to the Minister, but listen to the people in the country. They don't want it! Let me remind you that this Minister has just said, and I quote: 'The energy transition must be affordable. Otherwise, it's gonna fail. I'm working on a solution." How cynical do you want it? 'Cause a lot of people aren't doing this anymore. That energy transition is gonna be a huge failure. Energy is a basic requirement, but this minister makes it a very expensive luxury product. Dear Minister, you are not working on a solution. You are part of the problem!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. I've only heard one question. How do I see that? We are going to see that, because we are in the midst of discussions on a climate agreement. In that we will see how we see it in front of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u5	I am really not satisfied with this; I am very sorry. I'm here two minutes to speak. Could the Minister please take a moment to respond normally? If he's not willing to do that, I'd say, what's he doing here? He has come to the Chamber to respond to what I have here on behalf of the PVV. Then I would also like a comprehensive response to that. Maybe the Minister can try again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u6	I have heard the whole speech by Mr Kops. Besides, it's not the first time. I know what his views are. He's asking me how I see that. I say that I can only respond to this when we have a negotiated and ready climate agreement. It then says how we are going to keep it feasible and affordable and how we are going to get homes off the gas in the next generation, in a way that the residents feel called to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u7	What an incredibly bad answer! You can't even call that an answer. I'm very sorry. The people in the country can't afford it. They're worried. The PVV raises this issue here. And then you get this reaction! It's a meaningless reaction. I'm really sorry. What this minister is doing is pushing people down the throat with expensive measures. Earlier, he said that if people can't pay for it, they should take out loans for it. The Minister really said that. Loans! Many people can no longer bear all the monthly charges, whether it's the rent, the energy bill, the doctor's bill, the dentist's bill, you name it all. Many people are already on the brink of a financial abyss. And what does this minister do? To impose pepperdure measures. They'll have to take out loans if they have to. The minister's just pushing them into debt. I told you, a lot of people are on the brink of a financial abyss. This minister pushes them in with his policy! That's outrageous. Worse still, the Minister can't even take a normal view of this. Then what's his solution? A lot of people just can't afford it. The PVV keeps repeating it, because the minister apparently doesn't want to get it. What are you going to do about it, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u8	Minister, perhaps it is an idea that you indicate exactly why it is not possible to deal specifically with this issue at the moment. Then people will understand the context and why you do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u9	In fact, there are no measures at all, because that is what we are talking about. So I do not know what measures Mr Kops is talking about, because these measures have not yet been discussed at all. They're not even ahead of us yet. I can't answer it now because we're still working on each other. 300 social parties sit at the tables together to see how we can keep it feasible and affordable for people, how we can heat Dutch homes in a way other than natural gas within about one generation, over the next 32 years. That's what we're doing right now. Mr Kops is asking his questions right in the middle of that exercise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr Kops, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u11	The Minister says that it must remain affordable and that measures are still coming. I can tell the Minister: it is priceless now! The energy bill is already rising to an priceless level. Next year €150 will be added with ease. There are, therefore, many other climate measures. What measures then? And what is that going to cost us all? The biggest financial blow is therefore still in store for households. The costs will go up even more. And then this minister doesn't even want to respond normally. It's really too scandalous for words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you. I don't know if there's a need to respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u13	I've taken note of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u14	Then Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr President, I am going to say that Mr Kops is very slightly right. That might surprise you. In the short term these measures may indeed be expensive, but the Animal Party prefers to think of the long term. I would like to put a question to the Minister. Does the Minister agree with me that, for example, when it comes to making corporations more sustainable, it is very important to make as many meters as possible in the short term and to achieve economies of scale? Can the minister help companies finance this uneconomic summit? Compare it to those tenders for wind at sea. At first it was very expensive. The uneconomic summit could be compensated by subsidies, but now it is so cheap that that is no longer necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr President, at least what the negotiating tables have proposed to the cabinet is that the corporations are going to achieve scale and speed in doing so. They should be able to start with this relatively quickly, because the stock of corporate housing is very large. That's where that scale can be reached. What we have also seen is that the coalition agreement states that there will be an envelope with means, as it is called. In the first tranche of that envelope, money has been made available for this very purpose in order to start with natural gas-free neighbourhoods. Part of that coincides with those corporate challenges. That's where it stands now. Again, we are in the middle of discussions on how the climate agreement should eventually become. This kind of thing should get a place in it. We're gonna see as soon as something comes out. I don't want to anticipate that. We must leave the tables that we have asked for to say something sensible about this, leave room to come up with proposals. In the end, politics decides.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr Wassenberg with a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u18	Yes, my second question. We did talk about the corporations. In addition to the corporations, we have a number of millions of homeowners. They weren't helped with this. For renewable energy, we have the ISDE scheme. Does the Minister agree with me that energy you're not using is the best energy? Shouldn't you also be able to use the ISDE scheme for housing sustainability and housing insulation, i.e. for energy saving? Could we not extend the ISDE scheme so that savings can also be taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mr President, we are full of ideas here. Let me see what comes out. To intervene in an ongoing process and all to make statements and to have views... Let's see how the table-built environment thinks it can cope with these challenges. The property owner plays a role in this as well as the big landlords. And we also have to use scale with those property owners. Many houses in the neighborhood-related approach are similar. There too you will have to try to reach scale. We all know that in the beginning this will be more costly and that at the end we really have the ambition that it is all just earned back with a lower energy bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-25-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you.
