ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Climate Act, Section 34534. Once again, I welcome all the initiators and their support in Box K. In particular, Mr Geleijne, since 50PLUS has now joined the initiators. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs, whom I hardly see. Who's birthday? Oh, Mr. Geleine's birthday. Happy birthday! I would also like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Two weeks ago the first term of office was discussed. Today we are discussing the first-term response. We will then have the entire second term. I understand that Mr Klaver and Mr Jetten will speak on behalf of the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u2	I would now like to give the floor to Mr Klaver for his answer in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't think there's a lot of moments, except for Prince's Day, where "K" is so full. I also think there are few moments when there are so many different parties in Box K. I think that shows what a special moment we have here. We're here today to deal with the climate bill. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Geleijne on his birthday. As a gift, we thought of a nice place in Box K. The fact that you're treating us with your signature under this law is fantastic. Mr. Chairman. Eight parties filing a law together. 117 seats in the Lower House. It's a historic partnership. I would like to thank colleagues here in the House of Representatives for their input in the first term. I am extremely grateful to those Members who have taken the trouble to amend the law. Sometimes with a few amendments, sometimes with a lot of amendments. Thank you very much! I would certainly like to congratulate Mr Van Raan on his tone. I had a feeling he was having trouble finding the right tone, but I think he succeeded well. He has looked critically at the law, but also managed to embrace what is special about this moment. It is not only about what this means in a legal technical sense, but also about the symbolic value. Mr Van Raan talked about finding "a common language" to discuss such an important issue as climate change over the next few decades. Mr President, I hope you will allow me first to say something about one of the co-subscribers who is not present at the moment: Mr Samsom, before I answer the questions and deal with the content of the law. In the first term, Mr Samsom's colleague of the SGP has already pointed out how brave he was to start working with the opposition from the coalition. What the PvdA and GroenLinks connected at the time was the idea that the tragedy of the horizon had to be broken. The idea that climate change passes over cabinet periods and that you need a law for that. I am very glad that we were able to work together then and that this cooperation has resulted in this. What we wanted was long-term certainty. We wanted to give security to citizens and businesses here in the Netherlands. I commend the courage of Mr Samsom, but also the courage of all the colleagues here in Box K to stick their necks out to come up with a law that sometimes hurts us all a bit. I would also like to thank all the members of our groups: Ton Langenhuijzen, Debbie Brenkman, Caroline Verduin, Elise van Zeeland, Wouter Langendoen, Sander van Haarlem, Barend van Wonderen, Petra van Veeren and Yorian Bordes. They have worked very hard to make this law possible. This law would not have been there without the support of the Ministry: Tom Smolders, Dominique Crijns and Michel Crevecoeur. And of course Anouschka Verbruggen-Large of Bureau of Legislation. Mr. Chairman. I also think it's time to thank a minister, Minister Wiebes. I think it's a miracle he's still standing. I think he's still standing. I love it when the chairman keeps saying, "Where exactly is he?" I also see him more and more converging. I think it's been a tough week, and we wish him every success. I would like to thank the Minister for the open attitude he has had to cooperate with the opposition. Sometimes it seems as if polarization is only increasing here in the House of Representatives, as if we can only disagree more. This law shows that we have succeeded in overcoming the differences. We didn't stick to our differences, but we went to see how we could bring them to something more than the sum of the parts. I think I did. As a personal note, I found it an educational process in which we listened to each other and managed to convince each other. I am thinking back to the talks with Minister Wiebes in which he convinced me that a carbon budget is really not the most practical way of shaping a climate law, because it does not fit well with the international standards we know. He was right. I am also pleased at the way in which the Minister was prepared to listen to our wish that CO-neutral electricity production should be given a place in the law. Yes, you're actually introducing a secondary purpose, but it also gives certainty to companies, investors and citizens. That is why I am convinced that there is a law here that has not been negotiated together in all the pain that is in it, but that we have listened to each other and tried to make it something better. I'm very proud of that. Mr. Chairman. The answer today we are going to finish along the following lines. Let me briefly look at the broad lines of this law. I shall then turn to the objectives and the amendments that relate to them. Afterwards, Mr Jetten will discuss the governance of this law and the amendments accompanying it. The main lines of the law are actually quite simple. In 2050 we want a 95% reduction in CO emissions compared to 1990. In 2030, we want a 49% reduction, also compared to 1990. In 2050 we would like a CO-neutral electricity production. In fact, Mr Stoffer mentioned another important goal of making climate change sustainable and tackling it: to ensure that we are no longer dependent on countries with questionable regimes where we now have a large part of our energy to get from. But this law isn't just about goals. We wanted to organise a political process with which we are going to work on climate policy. This is reflected in the five-year climate plan which should give direction for the next ten years. And every fourth Thursday in October with the climate day and the climate note. Mr. Chairman. I enjoyed Mr Kops' input. He was talking about scare-making. Then I had to laugh, because a representative of the PVV accused us of frightening. If this law is trying to do one thing, it is giving certainty to citizens in this country and to businesses, because if there is one thing that is devastating to support climate change, then it is that people don't know where they stand or that the government is running yo-yo policies when it comes to climate change. This law has to change that. It's not scary, it's security. Mr. Chairman. The MPs of the CDA and the Christian Union asked questions. Then there were memories of all those times we were negotiating together. Indeed, it was asked to reflect on the 2030 target. The Christian Union colleagues asked: "It's not too flexible, is it?' And from the CDA I actually heard, "Well, wait a minute. Are we gonna make it? How do you see it?" This shows exactly the discussion that we, as proposers, have constantly had with each other. How do we ensure that we put a dot on the horizon and that we can keep to it? How do we ensure that we don't get all caught up? This has led to a target for 2030 and a final target for 2050. The questions that have been asked are: how can 2030 be achieved? I think it's possible, but it won't be easy. For that, very difficult choices have to be made. We will see that now when we look at what is happening with the negotiations on the climate agreement. That is where the major steps must be taken to achieve this 49%. The amendments and the questions put by the groups of the SGP and the Party for Animals also have a coherence in terms of enforceability. In fact, the Party for Animals says: it is all not enforceable enough and not hard enough. The SGP actually says: it's way too loud. I think these two amendments are almost complimentary because we have tried to be exactly in between. We have tried to find the middle between setting as sharp a goal as possible, but we have also tried to leave flexibility in order not to put ourselves completely on hold for the future, because we cannot predict everything. This law is best seen as a comptability law. It's a framework. It is not the intention of these applicants to give citizens an additional right to go to court with this. This law is intended to bind politics, to agree on a process with each other to ensure that we not only set goals but actually achieve them. But I can't rule out people going to court either. It's open to civilians. That's what they did with the Urgenda pronunciation. That was before this law was passed, but again, it is not the intention of this law to give citizens an extra handle to go to court. In order to reduce that risk, we are also talking about a target by 2030. That is why we do not recommend the amendments to Parts Nos. 20 and 32 of the Animal and SGP Party. In addition, many proposals are being made for new intermediate targets, such as a renewable energy target by 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u4	Finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u5	I'm just starting a new block, so I thought...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u6	It is now about goals in conjunction with what is enforceable and what the goal is. Mr Klaver just said that this law makes that clear, but what exactly is there to say about a target that is not enforceable? It's really not clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u7	I don't know if I think this question is very clear, but I'm going to try. What I'm trying to tell you is this. Ultimately, in recent years, since 1990, since the whole process of global climate summits has begun, of making agreements against climate change, it has never been in terms of objectives, but in terms of achieving those objectives. By laying it down in a law, it becomes part of the law, it becomes much more powerful and we ensure that a path has been made, a political process through which we have to work to achieve those goals. That is what should bring the enforceability or, at least, feasibility closer. I responded to the proposal of the Party for Animals. They're actually saying this has to be enforceable in court. That's not the route we say it's the route it's supposed to be along. The enforceability shall be located in the following. Here are 117 seats, eight parties saying together: these are the objectives that we need to achieve, and this is the way we are going towards achieving those objectives. I think that is the best guarantee that we are really going to achieve results.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u8	What Mr Klaver is describing is a kind of internal structure. In that regard, it seems that the parties can keep each other to the agreements. It's some kind of internal law. But for the outside world, for the citizen, Mr Klaver remains able, unparliamentaryly speaking, to talk about what he wants, a goal that is not enforceable. That cannot be the intention if, for example, you want to execute a verdict. We saw that at the Urgenda case, too. If you don't make it enforceable, you get the situation that the minister, for example...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u9	And the question is, Mr. Van Raan?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u10	Whether Mr Klaver would like to explain again he did not think it was clear what was strong about an attempt that was not enforceable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u11	What I think strongly about this law is that there are eight parties here that, despite all the differences, have indicated that they want to achieve the 49% reduction by 2030. We've set a goal with each other. We've agreed on the way we're going to work towards achieving the goals. I think that's the great added value. When it comes to finances, I have never heard the Animal Party say: if we do not meet the budgetary targets, then we cannot go to court. No, you won't. There is the internal logic here in the House of Representatives, throughout the administration, in The Hague that we need to achieve these objectives. So far, it's always been noncommittal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u12	Finally, Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u13	I think it is a bit of a weakness from Mr Klaver that he is suddenly going to call in the finances, that he is going to compare an apple with a pear. The Constitution lays down in Article 21 that the living environment must be properly cared for. This is now stated in the Climate Law, in which nothing is enforceable, in which everything is a goal. Comparing that with the budget issue is a real weakness.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u14	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u15	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u16	Before I start asking my real question, I'm gonna call it one thing that triggers me a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u17	Tell me!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u18	I see the Claver Cabinet sitting here. I see four men and four women, and then I think, "How can only two men be allowed to speak?" Anyway, that triggers me, but I'm sure you're not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u19	That was a point of order, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u20	No, actually, just something I wanted to share. But now for my real question. I have to say that I really like the way you put it and state it. You have, I think, noticed in our first term that we really do support the Climate Law, but also that we have a great deal of difficulty with that target in 2030. Then I hear nice words like "we're going there step by step." I think it's like I hear Rutte talking. You're transforming fast. But I just want to know: what measures will we take until 2030, how much will that cost and who will pay for it? If you include something in such a law, even if it is a target, then you must have a better idea than: there are eight of us here with 117 seats. So very specific: what measures, what costs and who pays for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u21	My hands itch to answer this question, to tell us what we should do to get that 49%. Unfortunately, I have to disappoint Mr Stoffer: that is not what this law is about. We did not agree on a climate agreement. I think that the Minister would also be very pleased if we all agreed on the measures now. But this law isn't about that. This law sets out a framework. It is impossible for me to indicate at this time what choices we will make to make that 49%. I believe that the authors of this law will also have regular discussions on how to get there. We have tried to incorporate safeguards into this law to ensure that it is fair. For example, we have included in the law that there should be an understanding of how this transition is going to take place and the impact on the wealth and income position of households and businesses, with particular attention to SMEs. All this information that this law should ultimately give us must help us to have a well-informed debate in order to make those choices. But this law doesn't make policy choices. I'd love to, by the way, but this law doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u22	I do regret that these itchy hands will not be used to really name and grab this. Anyway, then the real question that I have very sharp about this. Does Mr Klaver really believe that we are going to achieve that 49%, with a lot of hallelujah in our society, by 2030?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u23	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u24	Well, that's short but powerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u25	Very clear. I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u27	That's short, too, and clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u28	Yes. Just before you continue, Mr. Clover. You mentioned a number of amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u29	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u30	And those were the amendments to the Nos. 20...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u31	And 32, of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u32	Okay, so those are...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u33	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u34	Yeah, dissuade them, but they've also changed. 20 has changed to 44 and 32 has changed to 52.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u35	Ah, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u36	So that we keep it a bit clear, also in relation to tomorrow's votes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u37	A few last minute changes came in and I don't know if I've processed them all properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u38	We're just trying to keep up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u39	Mr. Chairman. We would then have a number of questions and also a number of amendments, in fact a lot of them on the intermediate targets. For example, there should be a new intermediate target of 45% renewable energy by 2030. That is the amendment to item No. 22 of the Party for Animals. Look, we deliberately chose not to include this as an intermediate objective, because we are steering towards reducing CO emissions and ultimately adopting targets for this, for example on renewable energy or savings. You also have an amendment on that. Everything we want to achieve on that is in the climate plan, because we do not want to commit ourselves to the law. The aim is to reduce CO emissions. By focusing on this, we have chosen this as our main goal, and only as our final goal have we chosen CO-neutral electricity production for 2050. The same is true of the reduction in energy consumption in 2030. This, too, is a secondary objective which diverts from the objective of reducing CO emissions. Then there is the proposal to include an intermediate target in 2040. Actually, that doesn't make any sense, to be perfectly honest. Because if you do that in 2030, why don't you do that in 2040? Well, I think it's too early to say something about that, because we really need to focus on that first hurdle towards 2030. I can imagine that, the closer we get to 2030, an intermediate target for 2040 will also be set. But that really is too far away to record it now in the law. We do not know what steps to take and what technological developments there are at the time. I would therefore like to say that it is not illogical that you want to record this, but this really is not the time to do so. In my view, this is the amendment to item No. 29.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u40	Yeah, 29 is 54. Mr Van Raan, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u41	29 is 54. Magic!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u42	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u43	That's how I'm gonna do my own paperwork.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u44	Yes, a certain party at the last minute has changed a lot of amendments! I don't know who they were.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u45	Changed insights. That would be a credit to Mr Klaver too!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u46	Very good! It's a pleasure for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u47	Why do we want to set intermediate targets at the moment? We know that there is an instrument that can adjust or increase these intermediate targets in each year. The reason why we want it is that we would also like to have that clarity at the moment. Because if you don't, you have point goals. Those point targets work a bit like in the example of the man who jumps off the roof and says 2 meters above the ground: well, that flying is quite nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u48	Where do you want to go, Mr. Van Raan?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u49	Well, not to the ground, but to intermediate targets. This is why it would be very good to include these intermediate targets, knowing that there is a mechanism to change those intermediate targets. Those are the climate plans. So why not just accept that amendment anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u50	I have just tried to point out that intermediate targets are very important. Nor have we set an intermediate target for 2030 for nothing, but that we do not want to move forward before 2040. Just hold off on that for a second. Because as we get closer to 2030, we will have much better insights to set such a goal. So I think it's coming too soon. So I'm not arguing that intermediate goals are important, but I really don't think this is the time to set them. Mr. Chairman. Then there was another amendment from the Animal Party to item No. 49 to bring forward the reduction target of CO2 to 2040 and to include in the law the goal of achieving Paris, well below the two degrees, working to 1.5 degrees. It's already in the law. That's about what the law starts with. We made an agreement in Paris. This means that we must take major steps together to achieve these objectives. It is laid down in the articles and it is part of the law. It's pretty much why we filed this law and that's why it doesn't add anything to this law. That is why we do not recommend this amendment. As far as the objectives are concerned, we should not only add things but also increase a number of things. For example, increase the target by 2030 to 65% and bring the 2050 target to 100%. I would also like to say that the authors have spoken intensively about all these objectives. We looked at where we could find each other and how we could establish those goals with each other. I sympathise with Mr Van Raan who says that the task is so great, let us put it as high as possible, because that is the best guarantee that we will actually achieve the Paris climate agreement. You can do it the other way around. You can also say: let's take an objective that may be a little lower, even lower than what my party always stands for, and you can agree with a lot of parties, including how to work towards it. Isn't it much more likely that you will be able to tackle climate change and ultimately achieve the goals? I am convinced that if we manage to get to that 49% and provide certainty for the coming years about what businesses and citizens can expect, that climate change will almost come naturally. Society is ready. Politics is behind schedule. This law must provide a framework that will make it easier for society to adapt. I am convinced that perhaps we are going to be far higher than the targets here. But yes, to see now who has the most ambitious goals and how we can write them down: that was not the purpose of this law. We wanted to find an important common denominator, and I think we did it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u51	I am going to try again, because Mr Klaver speaks words that come out of my heart, like perhaps those goals put down a little bit first and so on. I just want to be very clear. We really do believe in 95% by 2050, but we think we need a huge run-up first. So 49% in 2030 seems a lot to us. If you take it out now, you'll have another match.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u52	Yeah, and there's a few less parties here. I appreciate the attempt of the colleague of the SGP. We tried to tell you where we want to be in 2050. That's where we have to work with each other. But if you don't put anything in there, and Mr Van Raan is right, you can't steer properly. Well, then you're basically out of control. Then you say, "It'll come, we'll do it sometime in 2040." Precisely by choosing a hard target in 2050 and a target in 2030, we have been trying to find exactly that middle, with which we are trying to define as firmly as possible what objectives there are, in order to provide security for society and at the same time to maintain flexibility. I am much more optimistic at what is possible to achieve that 49%. That's what we've had ten years for. It is going to be hard work to do that, but I am sure that if we are to be able to increase all those climate measures that need to be taken as much as we have now done with the Climate Act, then we will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u53	Finally, Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u54	Mr. Klaver is optimistic. I'm a realist. I think you should put together a very good plan for a few years first. Then you're gonna go like a spear. Now my question. Let's say we're not gonna make it to 49% and I'm gonna be right. What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u55	It has become a target. If we do not achieve this because there are all kinds of circumstances that could not do so, the government is not obliged to take measures that are out of proportion and disrupt society. That is not the intention, because we believe that in the end the saving of the climate is not getting any closer. What is expected of the government is that the government does everything in its power to achieve that 49%. I am truly convinced that this can be done in the way we have agreed and in the way we are all sitting here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u56	Good. Mr. Stoffer, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u57	If we don't make it to 49%, that's not really gonna matter. I understand that from here. We're doing our best to get that percentage, but there's no consequence if we can't make it. Even if we did our best, it's okay to be a little late. If it comes sooner, it comes sooner. That's good, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u58	In legal treatment, it is important to have everything very clear. If you are asked what the enforceability is or if a sword falls in 2030 if you don't make it, I say no. I even see people in "K" freaking out. But no, no sword falls. We have said to each other that this is a hard political goal. That means that the parties sitting here are doing everything they can to make this happen. That's what it says. But there's no consequence of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u59	No, Mr. Stoffer. Mr. Klaver, I want to know...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u60	I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u61	I would like to know the number of amendments you have yet to assess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u62	I've got three more, if I'm right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u63	And they're all Mr. Van Raan's, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u64	Yes. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u65	Okay, well, then Mr. Van Raan owes you an interruption. Then Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u66	Mr Klaver just said that society would be ready. I'd like to know from him what he's basing that on. As he himself said, this law is not about concrete climate action. He will probably not, and will not, say anything about the cost of it. The initiators also do so in response to the opinion of the Council of State. The Council of State says that it is not cost-effective and that there is no understanding of total costs. The initiators are actually putting all this aside. It is certain that the costs will be enormous. We can see it from the rising energy bill. It's all become priceless. Having said that, I would like to ask again what Mr Klaver then bases the statement that society would be ready for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u67	I see a great many people around me who regard climate as a major priority. They say, "Guys, we need to tackle climate change." In the same way that people say that they really want us to tackle climate change for their children and grandchildren, they can also say: I am deeply concerned about what this means for my life. They say: I have no idea how to heat my house or how to pay for this transition. I see that people are ready, but they are also uncertain about the future ahead of them. That's why we're united in making a law. We want to give people some certainty about what it's gonna look like later. This needs to be addressed in the years to come, already next year in the climate plan. That's what we're showing here. I understand that people are worried about the energy bill, about how they're going to have to heat their homes or about what transport they're going to have to use. But those concerns should never be confused with the idea that people would be sceptical about climate change. People want to tackle climate change. They want a government that's ahead of them and that's helping them. That's what this law's supposed to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u68	Mr Klaver says that people want climate change to be addressed. I wonder if Mr Klaver will honestly tell us what it will cost. A lot! We can already see that hundreds of euros are added to the energy bill. At the very beginning of his speech, he said, in response to my first speech, that this law provides certainty. Well, one certainty gives this law indeed to the people, namely that it will all run out of claws and become priceless. That's the certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u69	That's total nonsense. Not at all! That depends on the political choices that are being made. It depends on how, for example, the PVV reacts, so whether it not only wants to shout here, but wants to think about how we ensure that we shape climate policy fairly. I am very looking forward to all the debates that are going to come. I am also very much looking forward to doing so with Mr Kops; only this law is not about that. We'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u70	Exactly, these are political choices and the eight parties in box K are making the wrong political choices. Because that climate policy will raise the energy bill by hundreds of euros next year. The PVV does say quite simply: stop doing that, stop doing that ridiculous climate law, with the ridiculous climate agreement and with climate policy. Only then will the burden go down. Indeed, they are political choices and all those parties choose to let the costs run wild.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u71	Mr. Chairman. That's not true. We will continue with the amendments of the Party for Animals. They didn't just want to introduce new goals, they wanted to raise targets. I just talked about that. Those were the amendments to Parts Nos. 46, 51 and 26. I will not repeat myself, but we will also discourage those amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u72	46 you said, and...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u73	I said 46, 51 and 26. Mr. Chairman. I should like to comment immediately on Mr Kops, who asked in his first term: how can this law force citizens? This law is aimed at the government and not directly at citizens. We cannot say with this law in hand: you will and you must. No, this law must give the government the tools to finally make good climate policy. So this law focuses on the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u74	I think that's a little easy. Of course, the law focuses on the government. Of course, but then it is the government that then imposes all kinds of measures on the citizens. So to the left or to the right, the misery always ends up with the citizens. The citizens are always the scare after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u75	Then questions have been asked about achieving these climate goals fairly. We have included in the law that consideration should be given to a fair transition. It should be in the climate plan. We want to make clear the impact of planned measures on the income and capital position of businesses and citizens, in particular SMEs. With that, you can say, a fair transition is secured but not yet arranged, because that is not through this law. This law is not meant to be a policy of income, but we will soon make it clear with all these measures what this means. If we have that insight here in the Chamber, then Mr Kops can come forward, then the VVD Group can come forward and the SP and then we have a debate together on what such a fair transition is and we can make choices that will work out as well as possible for the citizen. Mr. Chairman. I am through the amendments and also through the questions that have been put to me. So before I give the floor to Mr Jetten, I would like to conclude by saying that this really is an historic moment. Where for years climate change has hardly been at the top of the political agenda, it now dominates the news and the political agenda. And it's time, because if we want to stop climate change, we have to be quick. I am particularly proud that these eight parties had the courage to work together. I am particularly looking forward to the follow-up to this legal process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u76	I would like to talk about the last three amendments and also about what was said earlier. I recognize in Mr Klaver a VVD politician who says: it is too early, just wait and see. That's too bad. I would like to take a very close look at our amendment linking to Paris. I will see if there is any mention of Paris in the preamble to the law, which is indeed correct. So I'm definitely gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u78	Finally, I would like to say that I think that Mr Van Raan has tried again during this debate to find his optimistic tone. It's appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u79	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I shall now give the floor to Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u80	Mr. Chairman. Mr Klaver has just started replying on behalf of the initiators and has focused on the aims and ambitions of this law. But questions have also been asked about the impact of the Climate Law and governance, and I will focus on that. I'll do it in the next blocks. I shall begin by answering the questions about the climate plan and the climate note. I shall then briefly consider the costs. A number of separate questions have also been asked, and finally I would like to touch on a large number of amendments. Mr. Chairman. First of all, the climate plans and the climate note. Mr Sienot asked us how citizens are involved in the climate plan and the climate note. Article 5 of the Climate Act provides that the climate plan is to be prepared with the view procedure under the General Administrative Law Act. In doing so, we have formally ensured that anyone who feels involved in climate policy can be involved in the development of the climate plan. In addition, Article 8 of the Act provides that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy should also consult with all relevant parties involved in climate policy. That is, of course, the formal side of the matter, but I would also like to emphasise that all eight parties who have tabled this law consider it very important that we involve citizens, businesses, co-governments and NGOs in the development and development of climate policy at the earliest possible stage. Mr. Chairman. The 50PLUS Group asked about the added value of the climate plan at the top of the climate agreement, which is currently under pressure of negotiation. The climate plan will soon integrate the climate agreement into the government's other climate policy. This creates a coherent picture of climate policy for the coming years ahead. Other groups have also asked what the added value of the climate plan is if you already have a climate agreement. The climate agreement that is now being agreed is the way in which the cabinet is implementing the 2030 targets. The Climate Act goes beyond 2030; it goes to 2050. With the climate plan, therefore, we have tried to organise that every five years climate policy will be fully updated and that we, as Parliament, the First and Second Chambers, will also be given a role in assessing the government's plans. Mr Veldman and Mr Geleijne, on behalf of the VVD and Mr 50PLUS groups, asked how the five-year climate plans relate to the biennial progress reports and the annual climate report. That sounds a lot, but it is in line with existing instruments and European commitments made by the Netherlands. For example, we agreed that we should create a five-yearly integrated national energy and climate plan and that we should submit biennial progress reports to the European Commission. The way in which we have now amended the Climate Law in relation to the previous version is actually perfectly in line with the governance we have already agreed with our fellow EU Member States as the Netherlands. The annual debate, the climate day and the climate plan provide a very good time to fully reflect once a year on where we stand with climate policy and whether we are on track to achieve the objectives. But as initiators, we also think it is important that we do not change the policy, the big changes every year. We must not make this a political toy every year, but we must adjust the policy at regular intervals, once every five years and, if it is really necessary, in the biennial progress reports. In this way, we are trying to achieve predictable climate policy. We have also been asked how the Climate Plan and this Climate Act can contribute to more innovation and more scientific research. This law will provide clarity for the coming years. It sets out the long-term climate policy objectives. This will create a stable framework for companies, knowledge institutions and co-governments to anticipate and adapt their investments. We believe that this can increase the innovative power around sustainability. Mr. Chairman. I come to the block of efficiency and affordability. The groups of VVD, GroenLinks and 50PLUS asked questions about this in the first term. Mr Veldman has asked to what extent cost efficiency is a guiding principle in this law. The main guiding principle of this law is the target for 2050, as Mr Klaver has just explained: 95% less greenhouse gas emissions and 100% CO-free energy production, with, of course, the 2030 target that has just been discussed in detail. But we have also included in the law that cost-effectiveness and fair burden-sharing between households and businesses are important principles in shaping climate policy. GroenLinks specifically asked about cost efficiency from the year 2050. There are, of course, measures that may seem cost-effective in the short term but will be more expensive in the longer term, because, for example, you are now opting for technological solutions that will be overtaken by the new state of technology in a few years' time, or because you are burdening new generations with higher costs while we now think we are cheaper out. I would like to point out that, not so long ago, this Chamber adopted with very broad support a motion calling on the Cabinet to include cost-efficiency for the year 2050 in the measures of the climate agreement and the development of the climate law. We trust the cabinet will carry out that motion. 50PLUS asked about ensuring the affordability of the energy transition, specifically for households. It is also included in the legislative proposal. The Climate Plan asks the Cabinet to clarify the impact of climate policy on the financial position of households, but also on businesses, with particular attention being paid to small and medium-sized enterprises. We trust that the House of Representatives will be able to keep its finger on the pulse of the climate plan in this way and check whether climate policy actually contributes to a fair transition for everyone. Mr. Chairman. Before I come to the amendments, two more individual questions. 50PLUS also asked whether it would not be wise to appoint a special minister for sustainability and innovation. That is a very interesting question, but the eight initiators of this law have no clear position on it. Fortunately, that is not necessary, because the formation of a cabinet and the appointment of the cabinet members always happens in formations. At the last formation, a Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy was chosen. I am convinced that Minister Wiebes will be able to explain to the House why that was a sensible choice. However, parties that form a new cabinet in the future are, of course, free to appoint another minister. Starting tomorrow, I hear questions here. Well, no, let's not. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kops also asked whether the emissions of all people in the Netherlands would be included in the first instalment. I can reassure Mr Kops: we are not going to do that. So everyone can just keep breathing, in and out. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the amendments. That's a lot of them. I do not deal with them in the order of the articles of the law, but I do it by fraction. I'll start with Mr Van Raan. As Mr Klaver has just said, there is great appreciation from all the initiators for the Group of the Party of Animals, who has prepared so many amendments and thus also made a constructive contribution to the debate on this Climate Law. First of all, the amendment on item No. The first deadline was that of the amendment to item No. 38. 15 on the five-yearly review of whether the targets are being met. This asks the Minister to check every five years whether the Netherlands still contributes sufficiently to limiting global warming. If this objective is not achieved, these objectives should be adapted by ministerial regulation in the law. First of all, achieving the international reduction targets is not only a task for the Netherlands but for all the countries that have signed the Paris climate agreement. It is therefore important that we do not automatically transfer the global stand to the targets in the Dutch Climate Act. Moreover, we, as initiators, are convinced that you should not be able to change this by means of a ministerial arrangement, as this undermines the intensive process through which this initiative law has been drawn up. That is why we do not recommend this amendment. The amendment in part No. Forty-nine, the former amendment to item No. 16, it's about an emission budget. This amendment proposes to add a system with an emission budget to the legislative proposal. We have tried to align the legislative proposal as much as possible with existing reporting tools, the European climate approach and also the international climate approach as discussed at the UN summit in Katowice last week. A European Governance Regulation was adopted in 2017. With this climate law, we have joined this European regulation as much as possible. We think it is important not to set up another system in a Dutch climate law, because it is important to be able to compare how the Netherlands achieves its climate objectives in relation to the countries around us. We also believe that this is important because we ultimately want to increase the European objectives, perhaps to form a leading European group, and to be able to work together with the countries around us. So this amendment is not recommended. The amendment in part No. Forty-one, the former amendment to item No. 17, deals with climate policy alternatives and proposes that the Climate Action Plan should include all possible alternatives available. We are convinced that the climate plan, as provided for in the law, provides sufficient insight into the intentions of the cabinet and how this contributes to achieving the objectives. There is plenty of room for the cabinet and for cabinet advisers to propose alternatives, and also to identify what might have been lost, for example because burden sharing is in the wrong direction or because it is not sufficiently cost-effective. It would be too extensive and unnecessary to identify all alternatives. That is why this amendment is not recommended. The amendment in part No. 43 - the former amendment to item No. 18... I'll wait for the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u81	I would like to deal with all the amendments tabled by Mr Van Raan. Then you will have the floor, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u82	There are quite a lot of amendments...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u83	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u84	That's right. That is why I would suggest that I ask questions in cubes of three. Otherwise, the viewer might lose it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u85	No, you don't have to worry about that. You will have the opportunity to respond to this, but I would first like to deal with the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u86	Three more pages for the Animal Party. The amendment in part No. 43 - the former amendment to item No. 18, is about setting up a climate committee. Of course, this has already been mentioned in the first version of the Climate Law. We, as initiators, have also discussed this a great deal in recent months, for example because of the advice we have received from the Minister and the Council of State. A climate committee is a very nice addition to this climate law as a concept, but it was unclear how this committee should function, what the relationship would be between the government and a climate committee and what position a climate committee could take in addition to all the bodies we already have and who are already advising us on climate policy. That is why, in the last letter of amendment, we chose to join the existing structures and add the Council of State to the Climate Act as an advisory body on climate policy. In doing so, we have also closely associated ourselves with the opinion of the Council of State itself. It states that "similar legislation, such as the Sustainable Public Finance Act or the Compatibility Act, also provides for mechanisms that allow an independent assessment of the achievement of the objectives set." In short, we have tried to align with the Climate Act some of the laws we have on the sustainability of public finances. In doing so, we also believe that we have organized clarity in the various laws, for us as a parliament, for the cabinet, but also for the Council of State. That is why this amendment is not recommended. The amendment in part No. Forty-two, the former amendment to item No. 21, is about the principle of broad prosperity. In my view, Mr Klaver has briefly mentioned this in the discussion on the objectives. However, in this amendment, the Animal Party proposes that broad prosperity and the impact of climate policy on broad prosperity should also be included in the Climate Act. As initiators, we believe that it is not necessary to do so in the cycle of climate governance, because once a year we already spend a great deal of time with the Monitor Brede Welvaart, namely around Prinsjesdag. This seems to us to be a more appropriate time to consider this broad prosperity, not only with regard to climate policy, but also with regard to all other policy areas that could have an impact on that broad prosperity. So we don't think this is specifically appropriate to this Climate Act. That is why this amendment is not recommended. Mr. Chairman. The amendment in part No. 27 and that in part No. 28 concern the exclusion of polluters from fossil fuels. As far as we are concerned, it is up to the government to decide which parties should be involved in the design of climate policy. The Chamber can, of course, ask the cabinet very critically about this when dealing with the climate note and the climate plans. We are also confident that the government will always keep an eye on the vested interests of parties who are asked to co-operate on climate policy and how the cabinet and we in the Chamber should weigh those vested interests against the objectives that transcend the interests of those individual parties. That is why these two amendments are not recommended. The amendment in part No. 31 deals with electricity production and proposes replacing the concept of "CO-neutral electricity production" with "renewable energy." Renewable energy would then cover energy sources such as wind, sun and biomass. CO-neutral electricity production, as included in the Climate Act, is somewhat broader than that and also offers room for other energy production, avoiding emissions because it is collected and stored. I can assure you that among the initiators, too, of course, there is a difference of opinion as to how much of that kind of CO-neutral electricity production you should still have. But we think it is too early in 2018 to rule that out completely, because for us the most important thing is that we achieve that 95% reduction. We do not want to completely exclude possible solutions for this now, but we fully understand the intention behind this amendment. Nevertheless, I must advise against the amendment. Mr. Chairman. Then I have had all the amendments from the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u87	I hear Mr Jetten saying that it is the most important thing to achieve these objectives. Already, people are beginning to feel the first effects of the entire climate plan, in the explosively increased energy bill for 2019. This is just the beginning, because all the measures that have yet to be implemented have not yet been implemented. All to achieve possibly 0.00007°C less warming later. The Achilles heel of this law is, of course, that it does not mention exactly what measures are going to be taken and what they are going to cost. What is the maximum for Mr Jetten that he thinks citizens should be rid of these absurd climate goals?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u88	Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u89	50% of their income? 80% of their income? How much are you willing to take from people for these shadows you're chasing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u90	I think we have seen again in recent weeks how important it is that the Netherlands is one of the first countries to embed the objectives of the Paris Agreement in the law. Global warming is going faster than we thought. That is a huge threat to our prosperity. A rising sea level is a huge threat to safety and how we live here in the Netherlands. It is therefore very important that we, as a country, also meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement. The initiators of eight parties all agree, like Mr Baudet, that the measures we are taking should be implemented in a fair manner. We need to look closely at the burden sharing between households and between households and businesses. We need to make sure that everyone can come along with that. But that's not what this bill is about. This bill is about setting targets: 95% less CO emissions and 100% CO-free energy production. If we vote on this as a Chamber this week and have set those targets, it will happen at a very good time. That is right before, hopefully, the climate agreement is presented. That climate agreement is about how we achieve the goals and what this is going to mean for households and businesses. Then we can all judge whether this is going to happen in a fair manner, including Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u91	I can't get an answer to my question. Mr Jetten does come up with all kinds of falsehoods, such as that the climate would change faster than expected. The opposite is the case. In all models, it appears to be very bad, or disappointing for panic-monitors like yourself. You must have an idea of what the maximum cost may be. Suppose, as we are now beginning to see, it is going to cost a thousand billion and it becomes priceless, while people are not able to pay all their energy bills anymore. Will there be a moment when you say: China is not participating, India is not participating, Russia is not participating, the United States is not participating and a lot of countries are not participating; it is madness and we are stopping? Is it conceivable that that happens, or do you just say: this is my religion, I go for it and I don't care what it costs; the Netherlands to the begging staff; we continue with this. What is it? Is there a maximum of what you want to spend on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u92	I am standing here on behalf of eight parties that are the initiators of the law. I can well imagine that these eight parties, as well as those who are now taking part in this debate in the Chamber, all have different values about how many people would be able to pay for the energy transition to the maximum. I have heard in this debate in the first term, and now in the answer, that we all think that these burdens should be shared fairly. The beauty of this law is that it only sets the objectives by law. So we offer every opportunity to cabinet and chamber to assess each year in the climate plan, every two years in the evaluation and every five years in the determination of climate policy in the coming years whether the burden of climate policy is being properly distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u93	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u94	You can't separate the costs from the goals. Of course, this is a huge trick. This is really a cartel trick. We're gonna get a law on the targets first. We don't tell them how we're gonna get there, so we can't talk about the costs. Then the costs come and people say: we do not want that. And then they say, "No, you should have been against that law." This is some sort of EU trick. I understand you're in favour of this from D66. You're making a huge fool of the public. You have to be honest: it is going to cost a lot of money. I'm not talking about sharing it fairly. I am talking about the fact that people cannot and do not want to make these costs at all and that you are helping the Dutch begging staff. I want you to at least acknowledge that there has to be a maximum. It is possible that in a year's time we will say: that Baudet was actually right, because it is far too expensive. Where's that point? How much of the gross national product are you willing to sacrifice to this madness and when do you say: this is too much?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u95	I regret that Mr Baudet is always talking only about costs and madness when it comes to climate policy. I think that a lot of people who are now seeing an increasing energy bill coming in, want us to prevent that energy bill from rising further in the years to come. Those people also want their house to be better insulated, so they have a warm and comfortable home. Those people want the government to help invest in that place. They want the government to help buy an electric car. There are also companies that are eager to work with innovative solutions. Today there was an opinion piece by the director of the Port Company Rotterdam. He actually calls on politics to make a choice, to adopt the climate law and to come up with the climate agreement. Rotterdam can then be the world leader in green and innovative enterprise. In this way we can create new green jobs here in the Netherlands. We can make an export product of this ambitious climate policy. That's a huge opportunity, too. I invite Mr Baudet, together with the initiators and all the other parties in the Chamber in the coming years, to critically assess the cabinet's fair burden sharing, but also to look at the enormous opportunities that climate policy offers for a green, clean and innovative Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u96	I'm gonna try one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u97	Yeah, last try.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u98	How much can it cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u99	Again, that is a value assessment that each group will have to make for itself if we are to deal with climate policy in the coming years. I have heard the first term of the Chamber, and I know that this is the view of all the initiators. Everyone believes that climate policy should be organised in a fair manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u100	Mr Van Raan...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u101	Honestly all poor!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u102	Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u103	Mr President, you put me in a challenging position, because there are seven amendments if I have counted correctly...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u104	Seven? You have a total of 17.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u105	.. by Mr Jetten. If I understand correctly, they've all been dissuaded. I won't treat them all, I won't ask questions about all of them. I think you can say that dissuading these amendments indicates that what was considered politically feasible rather than what might be necessary has been looked at. Having said that, I have a few questions about a few amendments, for example on the review that has been taken out of it. 38 on the calculation of the emission budget in tonnes instead of percentages. Mr Jetten says that we are in line with European standards. I think that Mr Jetten will lose sight of the fact that these European standards have also been political standards. We should be able to rely on science. The IPCC says, "Make a ton of math." That countries other than politics choose percentages and that the Netherlands joins them, I can imagine on the one hand. But that doesn't mean that you can count the best in tons. That still stands. It would be nice if Mr Jetten would acknowledge that on behalf of the eight. The climate committee. I think I'm gonna ask two or three questions, if that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u106	Then that's what we've been through. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u107	"Then we've had that too." Smooth ice cream! The climate committee was initially in the law, which was also embraced by the Council of State. The authors then said: we greatly appreciate the opinion of the Council of State, which we consider to be very important, but we do take out the opinion of the Council of State, which is just about that committee that was recommended. That contradicts each other. That's weird. In any case, we are maintaining all the amendments, but I would like to ask Mr Jetten whether he sees that strange circular reasoning himself. Finally, the exclusion of relevant parties. The Climate Act clearly states that there are relevant parties. Mr Jetten says: leave that to the cabinet itself. But that's the problem. It's easy to see that the fossil masters are stopping it. That was clear in Paris and it is clear at the climate tables. Mr Jetten has a great opportunity here with the eight proposers to rule out those fossil miscarriages and pass those interests on to others. I'd still like to ask: take a good look at it, Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u108	Go ahead, Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u109	Let me start with Mr Van Raan's final point. While we are dealing with the Climate Act here, we are working at a number of climate tables to conclude a climate agreement. That is indeed sometimes difficult, because there are many different interests at the table, vested interests that Mr Van Raan has been fighting with the Animal Party for years. I think it is the strength of the Dutch model that we are talking to each other, that we are trying to achieve mutual support in business, among green NGOs, among consumer organisations, in order to achieve the climate policy objectives. We in the Chamber and the cabinet will always have to be critical of it or parties sitting at the table will not be able to defend their own interests too much. The strength of the Dutch model is, I think, that by working together we can do things. This shows not only the process of these climate tables, but also the fact that we are defending this climate law tonight with eight parties representing 117 seats. Mr Van Raan spoke of a contradiction in the rejection of the amendment on the Committee on Climate Change. That's not how I see it. The Council of State says that Mr Van Raan has a point which must be ensured that the objectives set are assessed independently. By not including a climate committee as a separate institution, but by giving the Council of State a role in it, we are aligning ourselves with other legislation, for example those on the sustainability of public finances. There is therefore an independent body that advises on climate policy, but that is no longer a separate climate committee. That will be a separate branch within the Council of State. Finally, Mr Van Raan's question on the calculation of tonnes. I think you can come up with all kinds of systems that allow you to assess climate policy, with percentages or with megatons of CO, and I'm sure there are other possibilities. Mr Van Raan was at the UN Climate Summit in Katowice last week, as were many of the initiators. There you can see how difficult and political it is sometimes to make agreements with each other in such an international context. Then you can say as the Netherlands that you are going to set up a very own system, but in my opinion the most important thing is to prevent that global warming from getting higher than that 1.5 ̊C as we agreed in Paris. We can achieve this internationally by working together, by agreeing internationally on how we report on this and how we can address each other as countries if countries lag behind or lead the way. That is why we have chosen to adhere to the climate law as much as possible to the governance we have already agreed on from the UN climate summits and with the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u110	Thank you. No, Mr. Van Raan. No point of order. I'm so sorry. Not a point of order. I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. Or weren't you finished, Mr. Jetten?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u111	No, because I also have the amendments from the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u112	Yeah, you're gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u113	First of all, the amendment on item No. 33. This amendment will ensure that the climate plan addresses innovation and the reliability of energy supply. With Mr Stoffer, the proposers believe that innovation and reliability of energy supply should indeed be given a place at the heart of climate policy, and this amendment therefore receives the opinion of the Chamber. The amendment in part No. 34 on the use of financial resources for local authorities and network operators ensures that they have a place in the climate plan. The present proposal already provides for a role for local authorities and network operators, as part of the generic key elements of climate policy. A more detailed consideration, as Mr Stoffer is asking for with this amendment, is not feasible in our view. It might be possible for him to delete in the amendment under paragraph h. the phrase "and the financial and legal instruments made available for this purpose," but he may also be able to put the objective behind this amendment in a motion to actually call on the cabinet to ensure that these stakeholders are properly taken into account. We do not think it is appropriate to include it in the Climate Act as it is now stated in the amendment, so this amendment is not recommended. The last amendment tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is that in part No. 35 on the inclusion of the aviation sector in the climate plan. The bill concerns a framework law for government policy. No sector is specifically mentioned. We therefore do not think it is appropriate to include aviation as the only exception. Moreover, with the objectives that have now been defined, I have just said in reply to Mr Van Raan that we agree with the agreements we have made at European and IPCC level on the objectives for the Paris Agreement. Air transport and a number of other sectors are not explicitly included. So we understand the SGP's call to look very critically at emissions from the aviation sector in the coming years, but we advise against including it specifically in the Climate Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u114	Short, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u115	Suppose you have a report at school with all eights. That's great, but if there's one 3 on for math, you won't pass. Then my question. We'll be there in 2050. We are not going to talk about 2030, because there are still some differences of opinion. As far as 2050 is concerned, we are equal to all people in box K. Let's say you get that 95%. Beautiful! But if the aviation isn't in there, then you didn't make it, did you? How does Mr. Jetten feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u116	The aim of the law is a total reduction of 95%. Every sector will have to contribute to this, including the aviation sector. It cannot be that we are all asking all households, industry, mobility, the electricity sector to contribute to reducing CO emissions and that the aviation sector can grow to 2050 in terms of emissions. In the end, we're not gonna make it to that 95% target. This framework law ultimately affects all sectors, including the aviation sector. But to give one sector a specific purpose in this law, we find really unwise. You need to steer towards the overall goal of reducing CO emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u117	I welcome this answer, because that is what I wanted to hear: it is inclusive. Then there's another question. It is about the legal and financial instruments for municipalities and so on. As an example, I ran into an alderman last week, who said: now there's going to be a very large industrial site built with all kinds of buildings, and what I can't enforce in the building permit is that those buildings are being built in such a way that there's going to be solar panels on it. It is not interesting for these companies to do so at the moment, because they have too low energy tariffs. So my specific question is: where are we going to secure such instruments for municipalities, as well as provinces and water boards? 'Cause I think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u118	Sure. I fully agree with Mr Stoffer. We regularly do climate debates in this Chamber. There are also all kinds of fan clubs in Box K, for building-related funding, the School Roof Revolution, you name it all. Those bumps where municipalities, provinces and network operators run into, as Mr Stoffer describes, I think we all recognize. But in my view, these are problems that we need to address with the implementation of climate policy, not in a law that sets out the objectives. That's what we have to do in the process. So, as a Chamber, we have to ask the Minister every year, every two years, whether he has sufficiently removed the bumps, the problems of implementation encountered by fellow governments, or whether he has to amend legislative proposals there, or whether he has to help co-governments implement them. But it seems unwise to us to include that in the law now. That is why we did not recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u119	In a previous interruption, Mr Baudet mentioned the fact that if China does not participate, it is actually pointless for us to adopt this climate law. In fact, I must say that he is quite right about that. Almost 2 billion people live in China. If they don't participate, it's pointless. At the same time, Mr Jetten says that there are a lot of opportunities as well as costs when it comes to innovation. What if I put those two things together? China's in. China already has 11% renewable energy. When you bring hydro-energy, 27% of all energy in China is generated sustainably, regardless of the social problems that hydropower poses. More than a quarter is sustainable China. China has set itself the goal of becoming a world leader in renewable energy. So we're the rear guard! Isn't it the case that if we want to benefit from this revenue, from the opportunities that renewable energy will also provide, we need to invest hugely in science and innovation, not to be a back-guard, but to be a front-runner?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u120	I fully agree with Mr Bruins. That is true, I think, for all the initiators. It offers huge opportunities for Dutch business, for Dutch knowledge institutions. For example, we are already leading the world in the field of water management and climate adaptation. I think we all hope that in about ten or fifteen years' time we will be able to see together that we are also leading the world in climate mitigation, not only in knowledge, but also in the way Dutch industry acts in it. Then perhaps I may conclude with the following words. I just said that last week we had a rather large parliamentary delegation at the UN climate summit in Katowice in Poland. We have, of course, been preparing this climate law here in the Netherlands for months, with the negotiations on a climate agreement. The newspapers have recently been full of climate policy and what that means for possible burdens, costs and opportunities. As a parliamentary delegation, we had talks with MEPs from other EU Member States and with ministers, companies from other parts of the world. What I really found was a great eye-opener last week in Poland, is that they all look at the Netherlands with their mouths open. They think it's fantastic that in the month of December 2018, in the Netherlands, we will be discussing a Climate Act in the House of Representatives, submitted by eight parties, supported by at least 117 Chamber seats, which sets out the objectives of Paris by law. And that we are not just setting those targets, but hopefully also concluding a climate agreement, with which we are taking a very important first step towards achieving those objectives. As the Netherlands, we can be very proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u121	Just for a minute. Mr Bruins just said: China is actually a frontrunner for sustainability. Mr Jetten confirms that. I just want to say that's complete and utter bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u122	I will respond briefly to that. I think Mr Bruins just said that China is doing a very good job on this and he has expressed the hope that the Netherlands will be the frontrunner in this. Mr Baudet has just mentioned a number of countries which are lagging behind. Yes, there are countries that are struggling at the UN Climate Summit. But we have also seen that American states and cities, which have a president who is withdrawing from the climate agreement, are present at such a climate summit and proudly say: we're still in. We are doing our best, but we are doing our part in this climate and energy transition. It is not because it creates enormous costs for households and businesses, but because it prevents us from being saddled with an unliving world and much higher costs over the next ten to fifteen years. I invite Mr Baudet once again: join us. Make sure that we get that climate and energy transition done and can do it in an affordable way. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u123	I notice that certain terms are beginning to come to normal language. That's too bad. Mr. Van Raan, we had made a kind of compromise that would ask you a short question. Or don't have to anymore? No? Good. Then I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u124	Mr President, thank you. This is a special role, because I'm here as an advisor. A few questions have been asked to the cabinet about government policy and I am here in this role. I also love being able to speak from this company. In any case, I like settings where you are on the same side to strive for a common goal. The questions are to a large extent about government policy. That government policy is just getting mixed up in the field of climate, so I cannot give comprehensive answers to everything. But the moment we have the climate agreement, we can talk all the more about it. There are questions I can answer, of course. Mr Van der Lee, for example, asked if we would pay more attention to tax incentives in the final INEK. In the final version of that plan, the concept of which is already in the Chamber, there is a need to address all ways of reducing CO emissions in order to make it credible that we do. If tax incentives are part of the package, they come in. What comes out of the package, we're going to see at some point. Both Mr Geurts, Mr Veldman, Mr Geleijne and Mr Kops want to know what is going on with the higher CO target in Europe, perhaps all from a different perspective. I believe that this question has been asked in response to the Commission's long-term strategy. The Commission has laid down a plan, net-zero 2050. My logic would be to calculate back. As far as I could tell by many of my European colleagues in relation to what I expected, there seems to be more support for this 2050 strategy. Once we have established these, you can calculate back what to do before 2030 and then it is new round, new opportunities for the Netherlands, of course, and again the point of 55% is on the agenda. That's what we're gonna keep wearing. I am also talking about this with European colleagues. Some are so equestrian to say: we do think we're going to slide, but we're still in that process. Sometimes they also ask not to mention the name of the country, because then they clap a bit out of the school. I will not mention those countries either. But there's movement in everything. You can see that we are moving slowly, but apparently embracing more ambitious climate goals is not something you do over the weekend. This takes time in all kinds of countries. In all honesty, that ambition in the Netherlands also took some time. Perhaps not for Mr Van der Lee, but he is not only part of this society. If you're gonna embrace something big, you might as well think about it. I also appreciate Mr Veldman's emphasis on the fact that, for example, by means of a climate law, but perhaps also by means of a climate agreement, investment security is created, because you know where you stand. You can't talk about mop policy anymore. And if you can bet on innovation, which I might come back to later, then it's also nice if you start earlier. Then you become the exporter of products rather than the importer. That is what we want to achieve, because we are so clear that we do not only have climate goals, but also economic ambitions as a secondary objective. Mr Veldman stressed once again that cost efficiency is a guiding principle for the current cabinet. That is true, but then came the follow-up question from Mr Van der Lee and Mr Bruins: how do we take that into account? That's not part of this law. This law is about percentages and tons and not about how you achieve it. Cost efficiency is important to me. We must also pay attention to this in the climate agreement. That is also being tested. The Planning Office for the Environment decides whether we are still on the most cost-effective path. I'll add one package leaflet to that cost-effective path: that's not what the cost-effective path is if we go to 2030 and then stop. The concept of "cost efficiency" did indeed involve a look at 2050. So all the things that are smart for 2030, but waste money for 2050, we don't call it cost-effective. We want to keep ourselves on that path. That is what we are doing to ensure that Dutch people do not pay unnecessarily. At the same time, perhaps, that is the answer to Mr Geleijne's question: how can we ensure that it remains affordable? Well, for starters, keep it cheap where possible. The tonnes are at the forefront, but cost efficiency is the way to get there. Then Mr Geleijne immediately asked the important question of this day, of this year: how are these costs then divided between households and companies? He actually said: between households, companies and government. In the financial sense, the government does not exist, because the government only takes its money away from households and businesses. So in the end, we are dealing with households and companies. One of the most visible cost items of the present is the storage of renewable energy (ODE). Before the summer, I promised the Chamber that I would work on a review and that, on the basis of the level playing field, the current distribution and the run-up, I would see if there is room for another division. That is also a much-heard political wish. There is a strong desire to ensure that industry incurs as much of its own costs as possible and that households are spared as much as possible. Because we know that the basis for this exercise is really just related to the wallet. There's nothing crazy about that. Mr Sienot asked when the monitoring would start. If this law is passed, we'll lose the NEV, but we'll have the KEV. Apparently, he's not national anymore, but he's climate now. We have a new abbreviation for it. This will be the first KEV under this law in 2019. At the end of 2019, the climate plan must be presented to the Chamber and then the cycle begins. I don't think KEV is the most beautiful name myself, but yes, I'm not the one who made the bill either. Apparently, the people around me love all that. There was an important question from Mr Van der Lee. That was whether the Council of State and the PBL could already carry out those tasks. They have a role to play in this task. They have prepared for this and both declare that it is possible to carry out those tasks. There really was that review. Mr Bruins then wondered how the climate agreement would be monitored and guaranteed. It is obvious to align the securing of a climate agreement with this law as much as possible. Otherwise, we are first reporting on the climate agreement, then on the KEV and then on international issues. You have to put that together. The proposers have ensured that these cycles are also in line with the European cycle. This means that we simply have fixed points on which we organise monitoring. The guarantee must, of course, go back to that. But that is up to you as soon as there is a climate agreement. In the debate, Mr Geurts asked for something that I can still expose as a clear enthusiast of his party: the border impact test. In the meantime, thanks to his party, I can boast many years of experience with border effects. But these border effects depend on concrete measures, laws or tax reforms. They don't hang on this climate bill. The Climate Act has nothing to do with border effects anyway. There may be measures with border effects that ensure the implementation of this law. But then government and parliament should discuss these laws with each other the moment they arrive. The Court is free to ask any question about border effects that is conceivable. As we know, there are certain types of taxes where border effects can be decisive for the effect. It is a sensible discussion, but it is not part of this climate law. Mr Kops has just rubbed in the government that we did indeed fly to COP with a government apparatus. That's right. There are also rules for this: at a distance of more than 500 kilometres we no longer travel by train. I do not know whether Mr Kops himself often travels more than 500 kilometres by train. We didn't do that in this case. Furthermore, I would like to declare to him that I am not one of the saints either. So, yes, the choice was made for that. That's the only answer I can think of. Mr Geleijne, whom I have previously praised for a sensible question, has also asked how we deal with concerned citizens. I think a lot of people are somehow concerned about changes that are coming. I think that we should ensure that these people do not get major increases in costs or that it is clear but one side of the matter, because not only does the spreadsheet determine what the acceptance is. We just need to help people and give them clarity. And if there are costs, then we have to be honest about that too, because amounts that are understood are so much easier to digest than misty amounts, and you don't know what it's for. We just have a big job to do. All parties participating in the climate agreement must also contribute to this. It's not going to happen overnight. We're still working on this until 2050, so 32 more years. All sorts of things that are now known are going to be gone. And all sorts of things that will soon be known, we still have to develop. All these changes will inevitably create uncertainty. Then we have to be ready again and again, not with the spreadsheet but also essentially, in the helping position, so that one can see it all. This may not have been different with changes in the past, but some changes in the past were only pleasant: there was gas, there was light. Now we have a transition that does bring benefits.I keep saying it: your house is getting a lot more comfortable, the air is getting a lot cleaner, life expectancy is rising, the cars are getting quieter, but it's all not as visible as being connected to gas and light. So we're gonna have to work harder for it. You have to. We all have to, as a society. That is also why we have chosen a climate agreement with broader support rather than a few laws that go to the Chamber to settle for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u125	I was wondering how far you're about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u126	I have two more questions to ask and then I'm through.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u127	Okay, then I suggest you answer those questions first. And then Mr Moorlag can intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u128	In his maiden speech, Mr Geleijne also referred to a constitutional reform. Why isn't there one minister for sustainability and innovation? It's nice to keep everything in one person. Fine. We have done so in a coordinating sense. But this whole cabinet, I can't think of an exception as soon as it's in one way or another, is involved in this transition, because it intervenes everywhere, for example in how we eat and how we dress. You may not have thought it, but the clothes your household buys produce 2,000 kilograms of CO emissions per year. All these things relate to the climate issue. That means we all have to participate in our own way. It's not something you say one person can do for a while. Finally, Mr Bruins asks me whether the government is prepared to draw up a legislative agenda. Please note: www.legislatieskalender.government.nl.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u129	Thank you. Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u130	In replying to Mr Geleijne's questions, the Minister addressed the concerns of the population. I have also expressed those concerns in the first term. If you want to achieve a profound change as a climate transition, it is important that you maintain support among the population. The law states that a fair transition must be pursued. The law also provides for an overview of income effects for households, among others. How is the Minister going to ensure that the income effects are transparent? How is the Minister going to make sure that transition is fair? He has said something about other parties at climate tables, but what is the Minister's contribution to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u131	Well, from the whole cabinet. Look, we simply cannot reach a climate agreement without a pass-through that makes it clear where the costs are initially countries. In addition, we are still kept to ensure, according to the Dutch tradition of purchasing power plates and purchasing power repair, that groups are treated in a proper manner. And we know that's not just a question of honesty. In doing so, Mr Moorlag and I could still have small differences between ourselves as to what is fair. It's just support. If we do not allow people to participate, if we put people on the spot and go through a transition in which they are left behind and finally sitting in a cold house, then this is simply not going to work. So it is not just a question of political views on honesty. It is also just support what is needed, and we are all recognizing that here. This year I have not counted a fraction of all 13 who have not mentioned this issue. And I haven't heard any member of the government say this doesn't matter. This is a big task. That's what we're gonna deal with every year. Things are going to change, and that has not only financial consequences, but also other consequences. But over and over again, we'll have to ask ourselves how we're gonna get everyone along.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u132	Those are good and warm words, but how are you going to secure that in the system? I have also heard the Minister say in previous debates: we are going to look at this every year in the purchasing power picture. Energy is a basic requirement. Heat and electricity are basic needs. So I think it is important that you give long-term security and clarity to households, and that you make it clear in time and transparently what the costs are, how those costs are distributed and how fair those costs are distributed. Does the Minister share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u133	I'll give you the floor in a minute, Minister. I would like to limit the debate to the Climate Act and not broaden it to the climate agreement and that kind of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u134	Mr President, my question saw how the Minister is going to ensure this within the system of the law. Systematic, non-material; we are talking more about this problem of distribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u135	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u136	The law states that it will happen and government policy is focused on it. That is what I am giving Mr Moorlag an answer that he has known for a long time. We have this discussion every year, because it is not just about energy costs, but also about all kinds of additional costs, such as costs due to climate change, but also costs that have nothing to do with it. We look at all the expenditure items every year. We look at purchasing power every year, and we do it very carefully every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u137	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u138	Does the Minister share the view that you should not do this from one year to the next, but that you should give the population a long-term perspective and also long-term assurances to keep the acceptance of the transition at a good level?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u139	Yes, all the cost items and income expectations included, you do so at the beginning of a cabinet period. Then you'll see what your ambitions are in there. It is not that we blindly have to repair purchasing power every year in panic. Mr Moorlag knows the system very well, and he knows that we do it neatly every time. Moreover, the costs of this climate assessment, i.e. the additional costs resulting from this declaration, are still very limited compared to a number of other items. We are talking about total additional costs of 0.5% of our gross domestic product. Yeah, that's important, but no, there's a lot bigger than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u140	Thank you. Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u141	I'll try to keep it short. There is much talk about the transition: for 32 years and how do we share the costs fairly. But because we have so much time and can talk about it well, it can also be fairer and you can avoid inevitable costs. You can't do that if you don't do something. I would like to hear from the Minister what he thinks will happen if this law does not come, if we do not take this path together. Isn't it true that the costs will be much higher, but they will also be able to pour themselves into our country in a very shocking way, which means that people will not even be able to get a maximum of the costs for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u142	I can't say exactly what would happen if we didn't have this law, but I'm so used to this law now that I really can't imagine a world without this beautiful law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u143	Thank you. That was the first term on the part of the initiators. I suggest we suspend until 8:20.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u144	We will continue the debate on the Climate Law. We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Sienot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u145	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Especially thanks to the people in trade-K, the team-climate, who even got a player. Congratulations on that! The party in "K" just goes on. There's even someone's birthday, so that's what I'd like to hear. They're not look-away, they're look-away, they're look-away. Thanks to them, today we have a legal basis for a long-term approach to one of the biggest problems of our time. If, as a rich and innovative country, we manage to grow our prosperity while at the same time reducing our higher per capita CO emissions, many other countries will follow our example. Ambitious climate policy offers so much more besides environmental gains: export opportunities, jobs, clean air, comfortable and energy-efficient homes for our residents. The Netherlands has a lot to achieve these goals. It's possible, even if it doesn't happen on its own. It will only succeed if we dare to work together, beyond the limits of one's own political equality. That is exactly what these eight parties have done from left to right. The fact that there are so many parties under this Climate Act, 117 seats, also gives great confidence that there will be sufficient political support for ambitious climate policy in a next Chamber. With this broad political support in the Chamber, we can count on the next Cabinets to keep their word. But that never makes support in the country self-evident. We were able to hear that very well today. We need to involve the Dutch again and again and listen to their concerns and ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u146	Yeah, I'll give you an opportunity in a minute. Were you ready, Mr. Sienot?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u147	I wasn't finished, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u148	The fact that there may be a lot of seats for this Climate Act now is absolutely not a guarantee that another Chamber, i.e. after the elections, will be again. In fact, I think that all those people sitting here will be mercilessly punished by the electorate for this absurd policy. 1,000 billion for 0.00007 degrees: it's really amazing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u149	I think that Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy is wrong. On the contrary, I speak to many people who are concerned about climate change. Every poll shows that. I also see and hear people saying: what is that going to mean for our energy bill? The good thing about this law is that we are planning a route that allows us to spread the costs in the long term, make it very manageable for a lot of people and test how that works every year. In the end, everyone thinks that we should do something about climate change. Well, maybe not everyone, but you should also ask yourself, if you see all the headlights coming at you, maybe you're not the ghost rider. That's the way it is. That's a little bit of what's going on. A lot of Dutch people know very well: there is something going on, we have to do something about it, it is good that there is a law that we are going to work on structurally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u150	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u151	No, I didn't have anything else to say. I'd like to give him the last word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u152	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u153	The answers given by these authors show that this law does not regulate how we involve people in climate policy, but the authors do point out that they think it is important that this happens. That is why it is a good thing that this law at least regulates the annual discussion of the progress of the climate plan in the House of Representatives. This means that people's representatives will be able to see to it that everyone can participate until 2050. That's really far-reaching. That means we can really make sure everyone's in. Whether you're living in a rental house or in a property, whether you're driving a lease car or a second-hand car, the climate is everyone's and D66 wants everyone with a power outlet to stay in it. I therefore look forward to the first KEV in 2019 and to the climate plan. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u154	Thank you, Mr. Sienot. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank all the authors very much for their efforts and, of course, the Minister. He's very happy. I see him smiling. I think it is wonderful that we can see today that at least 80% of the Chamber agrees to a law that not only links ourselves and the cabinet, but also new parliaments and cabinets after us to a necessary transition path. I think that will prevent unnecessary costs from being incurred. We're gonna avoid a lot of expense. We do so so that we will leave the Netherlands for our children, grandchildren and the other generations that come after us in a much better way. We do this not only because it is important for the Netherlands, but we also see it very much from an international perspective. I like that Mr Sienot talks about "team climate." Part of that team climate was in Poland last week. We must also get other countries involved in this area, i.e. towards the 55% target. The initiators are working together on this. I think it is very important that we continue to promote this internationally, because it makes it easier to take those steps in the Netherlands. If all our neighbours do that, that transition will go faster. Cost reductions also go faster and then we will achieve the goals faster in a bearable way for everyone. I'm so happy about that. In my first term I talked about the tragedy of the horizon, of the spirit and of the large scale. Worldwide it often prevents us from doing what is necessary at the right time in time. I think it is very important that we counter this law. These three tragic developments could otherwise draw us into the eye of the perfect storm. The perfect storm is a situation in which we end up doing nothing and harming ourselves, our generation and the planet tremendously. For me, therefore, this is and will remain an historic law. My congratulations again to all the proposers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u156	Thank you, Mr. Van der Lee. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u157	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the authors for the answers and the answers to the amendments. I am drawing the amendment to part No. 19 in this regard. It's about the Gap analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u158	Let's see. The amendment in part No. 19, did you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u159	Yeah, in my books. I hope he's in sync with yours. It's about the Gap analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u160	The Van Raan amendment (Doc. 19) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That amendment will be converted into a motion. Between the last time we talked about the Climate Act and today is the climate conference in Katowice, Poland. The overtones there were the common desire to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C. The participants, the fellow travelers there, will recognize that. The 15-year-old climate striker Greta Thunberg said during a speech: until you start focusing on what needs to be done instead of what is politically possible, there is no hope. Our Prime Minister spoke to the world through CNN and even called us to increase the efforts considerably, because we said it in English but I translate it into Dutch "otherwise if humanity has a serious problem." Other words, same message. Thunberg and Rutte actually joined together miraculously: the need to do what is necessary to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C. However, in our view, the now proposed Climate Act reflects what the negotiators of the Climate Act have considered politically possible, with all due appreciation for that. The climate has thus been approached as a normal subject of negotiation, similar to collective bargaining or a negotiation on pensions. Not to do the normal negotiating issues, on the contrary, but they are in the honorable category 'a little added, a little off and a compromise in which most people can find themselves'. So the question is: is the climate such a type of negotiation? In any case, we have a precedent, namely the Urgenda climate issue, where the climate has been treated as a normal subject of negotiation: a bit of the solutions in the energy agreement, a bit of work in the calculation method, a little negotiation and a compromise that most people could agree with. Today we read in Elsevier among others: for Wiebes Urgenda-paniek threatens. Politics has waited so long that now only expensive ad hoc interventions help. Windmills can't be added or introduced laws anymore. At most, agreements can interfere with people's behaviour. Elsevier writes that there is a reduction in the maximum speed. For a VVD minister electoral disaster. Or cuts in livestock, we add. Mr. Chairman. Climate change is the biggest challenge we face. As far as we are concerned, this is not a subject of negotiation for compromise. I think this has also been demonstrated. The point is that the climate does not negotiate. So you need a law and a climate agreement, but that's not what we're talking about today, which is in line with what's needed to limit global warming to a maximum of 1.5°C. Mr. Chairman. We have said it before: we appreciate the symbol function of the law. We really do not exclude the accelerating effect, but we do not yet see any indication of this. Another example of such an ambition level in the past: Balkenende IV promised 30% reduction in 2020 on behalf of 80 Dutch Parliament seats. That really didn't work out. Too noncommittal. Mr. Chairman. As a result of the search for political support with the climate as a normal subject of negotiation, everything necessary to make the law an instrument that brings the Netherlands on course in proportion to the 1.5°C scenario was lost. This harms the interests of present and future generations. Mr. Chairman. I'll walk you down the list. Does this law make an explicit reference to what it is all about, limiting global warming to a maximum of 1.5°C? No. I checked again for Mr Klaver; perhaps we should withdraw that amendment. There is a reference to it, but it also says that it is being implemented and not that it is being complied with. Does the law set an ambitious target for 2030? No. Are there other ambitious intermediate targets in the law? No. Does the law force the Netherlands, as agreed in the Paris Agreement, to take as much climate action as possible as quickly as possible? No. Is an emission budget used in the law, as was advised? No. Does this law exclude that fossil companies can obstruct the implementation of the law? No. Is this law in any way accountable to the judge? No. Have the initiators of the law seized the opportunity to make the necessary improvements? No. Does this law allow for postponement? The answer is yes once. What was first a law with a progressive character, in its present form, has become a declaration of intent, not the law of lead but the law of restraining head start. Even before we started, the brake parachutes have already collapsed. The Climate Act reflects what parties considered politically possible. It is an historic declaration of intent, but it is no more than that. Perhaps the most historic thing about it will be what opportunities have been missed. Mr. Chairman. We've made 17 repair proposals based on what scientists say translated into politics. That's what it takes to keep the 1.5°C target in sight. That is what is needed for present and future generations. The Animal Party is therefore happy to take on the role of a driving force for those middle parties who have now reached a compromise in what they consider to be politically feasible. Is the law a step forward? Yes. Is the law what it takes? No. Mr President, five more motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u162	Before you continue, Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u163	However, I regret that Mr Van Raan's tone has become somewhat more gloomy than in the first term. This may, of course, be linked to the assessment of the amendments. But I'm curious how he sees his own follow-up. Are we, as a Chamber, about to see an initiative law of the Party for Animals in which you state how it should be done? If that's your ambition, isn't it good to have this law already, and that you might ever make an improvement proposal on the basis of this law? I don't know why you're against this law, because that's what it looks like. You want it better and stronger; I understand all that. You can also make proposals for this in the future. But why reject this step forward so negatively?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u164	When that question is asked, I have to think a bit about what a party colleague of Mr Van der Lee himself, Bas Eickhout, said about the climate conference, for example. He notes on the outcome of the COP "The parallel with this Climate Act" is really obvious and it is easy to draw what has been done politically feasible and not what is necessary. Mr Van der Lee said he was a little surprised at the tone. I can hardly imagine that he is. We said that we were going to look at the law. When the law was filed, we said: in our opinion it is not enough, but we are not going to stand on the sidelines; we are going to submit proposals based on science, translated into politics, about what is needed. That's exactly what we did. I think you have also listened very carefully: no single proposal has been adopted. Your question was: what are you going to do in the future? What we will do is this. Those 17 amendments will not change so much. So we will continue to act as a driving force for the middle parties, under which you have now also shaved, to see that we are going to do what is necessary. That's my promise to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u165	The comparison Mr Van Raan makes with my fellow party member is certainly one thing overlooked. Look, we're disappointed. We expected more from the climate summit. But the step that has been taken is another step forward. A rulebook has been agreed, not on all parts but on an important number of parts, and you can build on that, just as you can build on this Climate Law. I understand that you are much more ambitious, but I do not understand why you do not appreciate this step forward and do not want to build on it. We are a party to progress. We are building on the concrete steps that are being taken, but we do not reject them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u166	Mr Van der Lee is tempting me to make the following point. If his party is the party of progress, I do not understand why the ambitions have been reduced in the law that you are now submitting. It was 55%, and you're going to 49%. It is therefore not so bad with Mr Van der Lee's party's idea of progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u167	Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals indicates that he is not all that enthusiastic about this law, but he is going to take great advantage of it. Because I know that his party, like ours, is making a real focus of climate policy and the climate approach. Thanks to this law, we're going to talk a lot about that. And we're not gonna talk about it because every week you're gonna have to stand here at the interrupting microphone and ask for a debate on another matter. No, we're just going to be structural, using a plan with each other to see how we're going to make the country more sustainable. I'm very motivated by that, because of my passion. I am sorry to see in the Animal Party that it is not enough, and that is why everything is nothing. This while you're gonna take advantage of it. 50PLUs joined us this week. I'd like to ask you one more time: Dear People of the Party for Animals, take your heart, join in, because you're going to have a lot of fun with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u168	Mr Sienot shows himself to be a real seducer. I'm very attracted to you. The point is that Mr Sienot also falls into the logical trap of seeing the climate as a normal subject of negotiation. If you do, I could understand him and I'd say it's a good idea and we should. But it's not like that. In our view, the proposers have missed an historic opportunity to do what is necessary. I'm trying to look at Mr. Sienot, but there's someone standing in front of it. Now I see him again. The enthusiasm to get to work, to improve and to do what is necessary fully shares my party. That's what we're doing. I understand Mr Sienot's last remark, that we would benefit from it, not quite well, I must say. I can live with that incomprehension, but if Mr Sienot wants to explain it, so can of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u169	Would you like to explain that, Mr. Sienot?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u170	Very briefly, Madam President. I meant that we will talk about climate very often in structural terms, including your passion. And that's because we're putting together a plan and a framework with which we're going to do it. That's exactly the result of this law. I believe that this is something the Party for Animals also fervently wants, because I see these requests for debate coming in every week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u171	If that's the way you call it profiting, let's see. But it's not like you're thinking: Gee, I'm glad we're having a climate crisis, we're gonna take advantage of that for a while. The thought alone I find... But I understand better now, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u172	It annoys me as Mr Van Raan rejects the compromise. A compromise as a political step to achieve what is necessary. Let me be frank: I am not entirely satisfied with this law either. I would also have preferred to take more steps forward. But my question to Mr Van Raan is: is it not sometimes more effective to step by step through what is feasible, rather than to stand on the sidelines and advocate what is necessary, isolated and without even one step closer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u173	Well, Mr Moorlag describes us as "isolated" and standing only along the side. That's not how we see it. We see a movement that calls on all sides, from outside: do more, do what is necessary! I would like to say that Mr Moorlag is in a kind of political bubble, in which he thinks he can negotiate with a third party at the table who does not negotiate at all. In that sense, you're really on a different track. I am sorry to bother you, because that is of course not the intention at all. But I think that is because you think and have analysed that the climate is a normal subject for negotiation. And it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u174	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u175	The political reality in a democratic rule of law is that you arrive at decision-making through majorities. And if you can then step through majorities to the feasible, on your way to the necessary, that is more effective than wallowing on the side in your own equal and isolated pleading for the necessary. My question to Mr Van Raan is what his approach is more effective than this approach to achieving the necessary step by step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u176	I need to step over my own annoyance right now. As if we would wallow in our own equal and as if we were equal. Mr Moorlag is mistaken. It's not the same for us. It's what science tells us about what needs to be done. That must be translated into politics. That was the commitment of what the Minister said, and that was the commitment of the Climate Law. I do not know if you believe it, but I would like to put on a note that we have dealt with the amendments very carefully. We've consulted all kinds of people for that. They'll tell us what's necessary. If those amendments are in the law, I would be the first to say: I support them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u177	I am listening for a while to Mr Van Raan's speech on behalf of the Party for Animals. I thought to myself: how arrogant of Mr Van Raan to take the measure of all the parties here and be the only one to have the truth in rent. I have a question for Mr Van Raan. Would Mr Van Raan, together with the Animal Party, want to have absolute power, for example in the area of climate?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u178	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u179	In any case, I welcome this answer. Otherwise, we would go to a dictatorship. However, that is what Mr Van Raan is proposing here. All parties here in the Chamber don't realize it, but the Party for Animals knows exactly what it takes to change the climate. I think that's a pretty arrogant thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u180	Really arrogant is that you've been sitting on the buttons for three decades and turning them all open and that, now that something has to happen, the first thing the CDA says is that the support is in danger. Now that's really arrogant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u181	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would have stayed on five motions. The first is the amendment that we have converted into a motion. It's about how to make the emissions gap clear. Then a motion on the rating for the IPCC report on the 1.5°C, which was omitted during the COP. Then there is a motion that promotes plant consumption at the climate conferences, a motion that calls for everything necessary to achieve the Urgenda goal and a motion that calls for earlier mistakes to be avoided in achieving the Urgenda goal. I'm gonna read them to you now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that UNEP monitors annually the gap between what countries commit in their national contributions and what is necessary to achieve climate objectives;]] [[calls on the government, by means of similar monitoring, to make the annual emissions gap clear to the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the climate summit in Katowice failed to reach agreement on sufficient appreciation for the IPCC Special Report global warming of 1.5°C;]] [[calls on the Government to welcome and place the IPCC Special Report global warming of 1.5°C in the forefront of the Dutch climate policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a plant-based diet contributes positively to the achievement of climate objectives;]] [[Considering that at the Katowice Climate Summit there was still ample room for stimulating a more plant-based diet;]] [[noting that the choice of food is largely determined by the supply and the social standard;]] [[noting that the concept "Carnivore? Pass it on!" by Professor Henriëtte Prast, by taking vegetable meals as a starting point in the menu, while maintaining full freedom of choice;]] [[calls on the government to urge the COP25 organisers in good time for the concept of "Carnivore? Pass it on!" to be imported in catering there,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Court of Justice ordered The Hague to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 25% by 2020 compared to 1990;]] [[noting that this means reducing emissions by at least 10 million tonnes of CO;]] [[Calls on the Government to take all necessary measures to comply with the judgment in the Urgenda climate case;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34534-56]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34534-57]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34534-58]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34534-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u183	Then there's the last motion and one final word. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the judge ordered the State to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 25% by 2020 compared to 1990;]] [[noting that, without additional measures, the Netherlands will not meet this minimum objective confirmed by the court;]] [[noting that the PBL was unable to pass on the CO savings of the Energy Agreement due to the lack of appropriate policy instruments;]] [[calls on the Government to facilitate the PBL by providing the appropriate policy tools, thereby enabling the execution of the judgment in the Urgenda climate case,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34534-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u184	Mr. Chairman. Full of motivation and enthusiasm, we will hunt down the Chamber, everything related to it and also ourselves to achieve the climate goals. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u185	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Finally, in the political sphere, I would almost like to say to Mr Van Raan. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the authors of the Climate Act for their reply. I would also like to thank the Minister for his advice. I have listened to him with less consent, in almost every other debate. As far as the SP is concerned, we must note that this law does not come too soon. The climate summit in Poland has been disappointing. What about the long-awaited climate agreement? If that's going to happen on Friday, then there's all the signs that it might be a big deception. So waiting longer is just not an option. As far as the SP is concerned, an important step is being taken today, but it is a first step. This law makes it clear where we're going. Practically climate-neutral in 2050, but ultimately everything will depend on the implementation. How are we going to ensure that emissions fall significantly in a short time and who pays the bill for this? A great deal must be done to achieve the objectives set by this law. Hiding behind vague long-term formulations, as has been tried in the past by some people, especially from industry, is no longer a real strategy now that they too know that they have only a few years to radically change the helm. The fact that the account should not be deposited with households, which are not the major polluters, must be clear in terms of the SP. Not only do they have little blame for the problems, but solutions will have to be really more large-scale than people say: it would be nice if you had a shorter shower. With this law in hand, at least the real polluters know now that they will have to work and that there is no room for excuses anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u187	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. I now give the floor to Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u188	Mr. Chairman. Of course, a word of thanks to the authors for answering the questions about the Climate Act, a law that will provide us with certainty in particular: certainty about that spot on the horizon for 2050 and certainty about the 2030 target. This security ensures stability and confidence. That is what we need to achieve our ambitions, but that is what we need to do to put our businesses in a position to do the things that are needed and also to bring them around the world as an export product. Glad to hear that the proposers also indicate that this law does not provide an additional handle for residents of this country, for example, to enforce something in court, but that this law mainly binds us politically to the goals we set for 2030 and 2050. Choices have to be made for that. I am pleased to hear that the Minister repeats what he wrote to the Chamber earlier in February: that cost efficiency is a guiding principle. I am glad that the proposers also mention that. In an interruption that took place in the first term, Mr Klaver said: of course, we are not going to meet the 2030 target with measures that disrupt society. Cost efficiency is therefore an important principle, as the Minister put it. Of course, we are not going to do anything before 2030 that we know in the longer term is actually throwing away money because it might be cheaper and better in the direction of 2050. I think that's the profit of this law. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u189	Thank you, Mr. Veldman. I now give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u190	Thank you, Mr President. The Climate Act, an initiative bill from those seven parties there. Oh, no, what am I saying? There are now eight, because 50PLUS was apparently so enthusiastic about the rising energy costs that the party has now joined this terrible climate alliance as well. Just so you know. Mr. Chairman. The negotiations on the climate agreement are currently taking place rather rigidly, and then there is trouble in the coalition. Therefore, at the end of the year, this climate law needs to be rushed through just as quickly, before the whole thing, and not least the coalition itself, collapses. The sooner that happens, the better. But aside from that... Meanwhile, people at home only see their energy bill rising to record heights. An increase of €300, an increase of €360. The amounts vary a bit, but are in reality much higher than the cabinet's reflections over and over again. Over and over again, the government says that it is not that bad, that the energy bill is not rising so fast and that people are saving energy. What are you worried about? But it's not easy at all. Households are witnessing a huge increase in their monthly amounts. The letters fall these weeks, these days, at the people's house on the mat. An increase of €30, €40 or €50 is nothing yet. There are people who have to pay €100 more per month and some even €150. And mind you, that is for the same energy consumption. That's really too bizarre for words. It's crazy, but that's the reality. Anyone who says that it all remains to be paid and taken, especially the cabinet and the initiators, lives in a completely different world. The PVV has already made several proposals for a lower energy bill, for example by abolishing storage of renewable energy. But unfortunately, our motions were rejected over and over again. It is striking that the PvdA has also voted against it, and that is Mr Asscher's party. This is where he sits, Mr Asscher, who had a very cool newspaper today, and I quote that the energy bill has to be made a bit affordable again. Well, that's striking. In the meantime, Mr. Asscher is here in trade union K and his name is now above this Climate Law, a law that will more and more plunge the citizens into financial misery. So it is also hypocrisy at the top of the PvdA. You'd think there'd be elections again. My PVV colleague, Mr Van Dijck, has again tabled motions for a lower energy bill, very concrete motions earlier today at the Autumn paper, and we will see what the other parties are going to vote this time. While all this is happening, while even the Planning Office for the Environment finds that no less than 900,000 households will be unable to pay the energy bill in the long term and while the cabinet and the initiators are practically literally leaving people in the cold, the Netherlands is going to help Africa pay for climate action, says Minister Kaag. It's really incredible: climate as a kind of pretext to keep pumping a lot of money into Africa, especially unimaginably. Climate development aid while the Dutch are being wiped out massively. It's really unacceptable. Our own people are just being betrayed. It's so mean and so unfair what's happening here. How much Dutch money will go to Africa under the term "climate"? I'd like a response from the Minister. But no matter how much it is, it's Dutch money and that money has to go to the Dutch. This disguised development aid is precisely one of the results of the climate summit in Poland. The richer countries, including the Netherlands, can also pay for Africa's climate policy. One of the decisions of the climate summit talks about 100 billion dollars per year for Africa. I repeat, 100 billion dollars a year for Africa for climate. Meanwhile, energy becomes priceless here in the Netherlands. Already, while the biggest financial blow has yet to come as a result of the climate agreement. Something seems to be going to be presented next Friday. It will be priceless, that much is certain, but these eight parties here don't give a shit. The Climate Act, which sets out the CO reduction targets, now paves the way for all the terrible climate plans ahead of this country. Because once the climate law is passed by Parliament, these climate measures, regardless of any disagreement in a coalition, will have to be implemented. Exactly that is why the Climate Act is now being speeded up. Mr Klaver said in his reply: this law provides certainty. Yes, indeed, Mr. Clover, what is certain is that the people will be badly hunted at cost. To squeeze the citizens to the very last penny, these eight parties cannot wait. They should be ashamed of themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u191	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u192	Yes, Mr President, that's getting used to, that the Labour Party and GroenLinks and even the SP don't run to that interrupting microphone every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u193	Look, Mr Futselaar is already standing!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u194	He almost started again, didn't he? That's a natural tendency, but I'm thinking maybe a recommendation for next year to do that a little less. Then we will be home much earlier with all these debates, and perhaps we will achieve much more as the Netherlands. Anyway, let's get back to the content. Mr. Chairman. I have tried with a number of amendments and some interruptions to get some movement in this Climate Act. That might sound like "he doesn't like it at all." Let me take that away right away. We are still truly in favour of the initiative and the climate law itself, because we are in favour of a climate law. I am also very pleased that one of our amendments, on innovation, was accepted, because that is also the band that we, as SGP, think you can really start taking steps in a moment. If Dutch companies pick up that innovation and can also export it abroad, that is good for our economy. But what these companies need is consistent policy. So that's what I'm asking for. Let it be, like in California, what I get back from corporations. There it is. We don't have that in the Netherlands yet. So I very much welcome that amendment. The minister's still looking into the papers. I think he'll write it down and he'll just do it. I'm very happy about that. The only point on which we disagree at least at the moment is Article 2.2: the 2030 target. We have tried to amend that too. We don't quite agree on that yet. I understand that Mr Klaver says "my hands itch; I'm not giving the answer," but that's where the uncomfortable is for us. We do not know what measures are under them, how much they cost and where they end up. It is not wrong to set a target at all, but we do not think that is feasible by 2030. I really think we're gonna make 2050, but it's gonna take a longer run and you're gonna fly. Then I think we're gonna make it to that target before 2050. Long story short: that will be our consideration between now and tomorrow night, whether or not we are going to vote for this law. I just can't answer that right now. We're really gonna weigh that as a group. All thanks where we tried to at least offer us comfort on this. If it's enough, we're gonna weigh that up, and we're gonna see that tomorrow night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u195	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u196	Mr. Chairman. I say to climate believers: don't believe everything you see and read. Humanity is not in danger, nature is not in danger, the polar bear does not just disappear and the country will not suddenly perish in a global flood. Don't believe in horror scenarios of apocalyptic size. I say to climate skeptics: don't dismiss climate science as nonsense. Those who claim that there is no scientific consensus on climate change speak nonsense. Few phenomena in the world have been studied so carefully and from so many angles. To people who would like to rely on a limited number of selectively chosen graphs, I say: at least use data relevant to the discussion and use data that does not just show trends in a limited area of the world. Besides, nature isn't the problem. Nature will survive. The problem is man.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u197	What consensus does Mr Bruins mean? What consensus would he say exists among climate scientists?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u198	The IPCC report is supported by an overwhelming majority of scientists worldwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u199	I'm not sure which report you're referring to, but probably from 2013. What is being investigated in the IPCC report? What's the research question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u200	I will go into this further when I say what the problem is, because until now I have only said what is not the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u201	Let me say: what is being investigated is the impact of COop's climate. The question is not what the impact would be of all kinds of factors that may have an effect on the climate. The research question is already colored. That's like asking the question: when did you stop hitting your wife? It is a double question, which means that the margins of the investigation are already completely reduced a priori. With that, you cannot say that there is a scientific consensus on a causality. No, there's a scientific consensus that CO has some impact. What that impact is, we don't know at all. We do not know at all how that will develop in the future. We also do not know what the other factors are that affect the climate. That hasn't been investigated at all. There was no census among scientists to see if there was a consensus. No, there are just all kinds of international conferences with advocates, opponents and people who have doubts. What you're talking about, it just doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u202	I will make it clear to Mr Baudet in a moment what is relevant in the climate debate. I'll go wider than just CO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u203	This is funny, but this isn't how we deal with interruptions in this house. You can't say: yes, I'll come back to that later. That's not how it works. No, Mr Bruins should just go into me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u204	I do not hear a question, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u205	Then I suggest you continue with your speech, Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u206	Sorry, can I just...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u207	Mr Bruins is talking about his own answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u208	CO isn't the only problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u209	Will we then stop obsessing about reducing it, while other countries do not do so at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u210	Let me explain exactly what the problem with climate change is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u211	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u212	I was just saying that the problem isn't nature. That nature will survive. The problem is man. Man lives in the 21st century on an overcrowded earth, depending on energy, materials and technology, especially in highly urbanized low-lying deltas. Climate change can lead locally to circumstances that drive hundreds of millions of people, vulnerable people. Perhaps by less drinking water from the Himalayas, perhaps by unliveable hot summers in the middle east, perhaps by years of failed harvest where rain could first be reckoned on regularly. Climate policy is geopolitics. It's about how we live on a small planet with 7 billion people. How do we do that so that future generations can build a peaceful and prosperous existence? In the last century and a half we, as humanity, have had the cheapest, most energy-intensive form of fuel ever. Humanity has driven it through in no time, when we should have used that time and all that mock-cheap energy to design the post-fossil era, to ensure that it is possible to preserve the blessings of our enormous prosperity for future generations in a way that will also benefit those coming generations. Climate policy is science-based policy. It gives us the opportunity to leave an earth to the next generation that is better and cleaner than how our generation found it. It gives us the opportunity to conduct politics that goes beyond generations. That calls for moral leadership. The Christian Union is prepared to assume that responsibility. With conviction, my group will support this initiative law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u213	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. Let me now give the floor...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u214	No, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u215	Easy, easy, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u216	A very interesting announcement has been made, but nothing has come of it, so I would like to ask my question again. What is Mr Bruins' consensus on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u217	There's consensus that... er... Well, let me start at the beginning if I may take my time, Madam President. The earth has a greenhouse effect, and that is a good thing, because otherwise it would have been far below zero on Earth. Then water wouldn't be liquid. Then there could be no life. So a greenhouse gas effect is good. It is good that we have an atmosphere with CO in it. On top of that, there is a reinforced greenhouse effect, increased, accelerated emissions of CO from burning fossil fuels. The fact that there is increased and accelerated emissions is undisputed. Mr Baudet will have no problem with that either. It is also clear and undisputed that man has an influence on the climate. The big question is: what exactly is that effect? That's pretty complicated. The atmosphere is very complex. There are effects that cause the atmosphere to cool down. There are effects that make the atmosphere warmer. The big problem is that global trends are difficult to detect, but what is very evident are local trends. There is consensus that there are areas in the world where the climate is changing right now. Nature will be fine. There will be other flora and fauna. It shifts to higher or lower latitudes. But what happened is that people get into trouble. Man is vulnerable. Modern people depend on technology, on the energy of materials. It's vulnerable. When circumstances change, people get adrift and start looking for other places. Then you just have big geopolitical problems. That is something that Mr Baudet should be very concerned about, especially in view of the spearheads and the focus of his own party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u218	The only climate refugees we recognise are people who come to the Netherlands because of the social security climate. But the step you're skipping is: what is the human impact on that climate? Of course the climate is changing. The climate has always changed. A few hundred years ago it was a bit colder here, there was a small ice age, which ended. It's been getting a little warmer ever since. CO probably has some effect on that, but how much? We don't know. We do know that CO makes the earth greener, 10%, 15%, 20% greener, and the numbers vary. But you must recognise that there is no consensus on the impact of CO on the climate. There is no consensus on this point. You just waltzed over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u219	No, I don't want to waltz over that. If Mr Baudet is looking for a hundred percent consensus, he will not find it. But the vast majority of serious scientists see and confirm that the amount of CO in the atmosphere affects the temperature on Earth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u220	That's not the point. It's not about the influence at all, it's about how big that influence is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u221	I'll be here for hours, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u222	Well, this is a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u223	My three minutes have passed, but the interruptions are pleasant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u224	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u225	Soon we'll just move on to a cup of coffee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u226	That sounds really nice. Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There seems to be a large majority here for a climate law. That is an important milestone. Mr Klaver calls it an historic moment and other speakers do so. This law provides a basis for further steps. This law is not an end, I say to Mr Van Raan. It is a step forward, a step on a long road ahead of us. Mr. Chairman. The PvdA is satisfied that we can make that step, but the PvdA is also very concerned. We need to redesign our energy supply completely. In my youth in the 1960s, I experienced how the natural gas revolution took place. In a few years, the whole of the Netherlands was connected to natural gas. That change was happening. Why was it rolling around? Because everyone saw natural gas as a contribution to prosperity, comfort, as a cheap fuel. My mom, too. She always thought it was a rib from the body at the end of the year when the coal farmer brought a couple of mud nuts 4. That time was over. That change was seen as progress, as improvement. In achieving the goals that we set ourselves here today with this law, we do not have that certainty in advance, so that this change is also going to run smoothly. There are a lot of concerns in our society. Sometimes they are ventilated very loudly here. I have those concerns, too, Mr. Chairman. I'm not so worried about myself and my 149 colleagues here. I myself live in a house that is now off natural gas. Looks like I'm gonna be able to put solar panels on the house early next year. I don't have to worry. But my sister lives in Delfzijl-North, in a corporation house. It is still connected to natural gas. She's not capable of putting solar panels on the roof. It simply isn't about that and if it were, it wouldn't have the investment capital for that. We can make the illusion that if we come up with subsidies on heat pumps and new electric cars, I can only say that 90% of the ordinary people never buy a new car but a second-hand one. That is what we need to care about with our 150s. That is why it is so important, Mr President, that we take away people's concerns. Whether they will be able to pay their energy bills in a few years' time or not. That's where our biggest assignment lies. I conclude with the remark that the energy transition...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u228	Will you finish up, Mr. Moorlag?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u229	... is not a technological task, but primarily a social one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u230	Thank you. Finally, Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u231	We do not agree tonight, it seems, about the proposed Climate Law and the impact of all these measures on Dutch society. I note that, in our view, a large majority would like to adopt this dramatic climate law and thus burden Dutch society with costs that we now see only the beginning of with the enormous increase in energy bills. Hundreds of billions are going to be spent on insulation, on gas-free, on windmills and on subsidies for all kinds of organisations, and companies will move away from the Netherlands. It is really going to be a very serious situation, with enormous negative consequences for our economy and for our society. I would just like to say once again that the people who are sitting here today are responsible for this. It is their policy that they pour out about Dutch society. It has already happened a number of times that politicians take measures whose dramatic consequences can only be felt years later, when they have long disappeared to their next job. Mass immigration is a very good example of this, but it is also the impact of the dramatic euro coin, which has actually been hunted by it in the afternoon and of which we still feel the enormous cost every day like a millstone around our necks. I would like to introduce something new by means of a motion, namely: individual checkability. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas millions of Dutch people are already experiencing difficulties in paying their significantly increased energy bills due to "climate taxes";]] [[Whereas the proposers intend to make this situation worse again by using the current law to introduce a radical "energy transition" to reduce obsessive CO, and we should easily spend around EUR 1,000 billion, which, in the most optimistic case, will have a minuscule effect of up to 0,00007oC less warming;]] [[Notes that personal responsibility and individual accountability of politicians and directors is an important democratic principle;]] [[calls upon the authors of the Climate Act and the individual government directors to declare that, if the warming and/or its consequences turn out to be much less serious than those proposed by the applicants at 1 January 2030, and/or if countries such as China, India, Russia, the United States or other industrial giants still do not participate in this gigantic operation to reduce CO emissions, thereby destroying all our efforts in any case, publicly apologise to the Dutch population, will lay down their possible public function if they occupy them at that time, and will endeavour to withdraw or withdraw the Climate Act, to cancel the policy and to compensate the Dutch population for the extreme costs that have been incurred, as far as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34534-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u232	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u233	Thank you. I'm looking at... Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u234	I have a question for Mr Baudet. He states as far as the authors of the law are concerned: if this, then that. I wonder whether that applies to Mr Baudet himself. Should it prove that Mr Baudet is wrong, should it prove that Mr Baudet is not right and if he could have known that all kinds of things were happening in the climate, is he prepared to reflect on that responsibility as well and therefore to resign by then he will confess to his Prime Minister or to be guilty? I would appreciate that very much. I see him nodding. That's what's good for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u235	Yes, Mr. Van Raan. I would like to say to you that if we work together to create a law in which we not only allow the Netherlands to withdraw from the Paris Agreement but also remove all these climate, subsidy and sustainability issues, I will indeed become Prime Minister and the Netherlands not to experience the enormous flight, to acquire wealth and not to experience the economic development, innovation, prosperity and all those things that would be the logical consequence of that policy, then you and everyone else in the Netherlands can absolutely take care of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u236	I think that's a wonderful promise from this politician. To be honest, I was talking about the concept of ecocide, but that might come in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u237	Then I would appreciate it if Mr Baudet would also textually amend his motion in such a way that the last part, to which Mr Van Raan asked, was included. Then I can ask my group to consider supporting this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u238	That is nice, but in this case it does not make any sense, because we are discussing the current climate law. We are not discussing the plans that a Forum for Democracy cabinet would have. But I would like to make a promise to you without any problem that by the time that cabinet was formed, the sooner the better for me, and fortunately more and more people in the Netherlands will hope to do so continuously. We will continuously make individual accountability a permanent part of any policy we advocate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u239	I would like to thank Mr Baudet for the length of his time in politics. It's nice to have the discussions we had today, but a man a man, a word a word. This is more than a causier...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u240	Yes, you can hold me to this, of course!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u241	No, but then we are going to amend the text of the motion and then I will seriously look in the group to see if we can support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u242	I like the idea, but of course you can't modify a motion based on something that doesn't exist. You can't say "if this law is passed, I'll take responsibility" if there's no law that you can take responsibility for. So it's a bit of an absurd idea, but I'm open to suggestions. We can consider any amendment to the motion in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u243	Then we'll just make it very simple. If what we discussed today turned out to be all nonsense, all these people would apologize, and if it did not turn out to be nonsense, Mr Baudet would apologize. Then we end this debate in a nice, friendly tone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u244	Yes, that's a nice idea, but how can you know if this dramatic policy is implemented? You can only investigate the impact of policies if you have a pilot set-up where in one case you do implement that policy and in the other case you don't. So I don't think that's possible. You can't do both at once. But again, here's what I'm saying. If we are in a position to make policies, we will always accept individual responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u245	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u246	It was good to discuss it with each other, but I fear that the motion will not work out with our group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u247	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. I'm looking at the proposers. Can Mr. Klaver respond immediately? Yeah, that's nice. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u248	Mr President, thank you. I would like to thank the Chamber for its input and once again thank all the Members who have tabled amendments to improve this law. I have listened with great pleasure to Mr Van Raan and I would almost like to make a passionate plea. Go on! That driver function is crucial. Keep doing that. Keep pushing things. It's possible, because when it comes to climate change, we're never done. The ambitions must be higher and better and faster and more. Keep pushing! And in the meantime, we're going to get results, because that's where we've come from. For 30 years, my party's had this drive-in function. Now is the time for us to show our strength, for us to take action. Because climate change can't wait. If you look deep into my heart, I would of course have wanted us to be here today with measures and targets that might have been much higher. But I have come to realize that, in order to really tackle climate change, it is of the utmost importance that you agree with as many parties as possible. And yes, I'd rather have an objective that is slightly lower than how I'd like to see it or what scientists say you should actually do it this way. With "actually" you haven't created a reality yet. We must now take steps to tackle climate change. I am convinced that if we achieve that 49% target by 2030, we will have such a flywheel that we will be far ahead of the target for 2050 than we can predict now and that that 1.5 degree, which we need to achieve, is really within reach. But that requires something from us. That is what I want to say to Mr Sienot that we are not only team-climate now, but also in the years to come. Now comes the really difficult task. How are we going to get that 49% by 2030? How do we ensure that all those measures, which will sometimes be difficult, which will require changes from people, will land with support in our society? That is our joint responsibility and we must continue to work together as a team climate. I would also like to thank Mr Stoffer and wish him every success in his and his group's consideration. I sincerely hope that the SGP will assess this law positively and vote in favour of it. I think it is an important signal when the SGP as the ninth party says: we raise our hands for this law. But I do understand his concerns. I understand that he says: such a goal in 2030, you can have faith in it, but how can I be sure that the measures you have to take will not affect people? The most honest answer is that there are no guarantees, no other than that we all have to pay attention to them. Adopting this law and voting in favour of this law is a huge responsibility to ensure that we achieve that 49% in a way and at a rate at which society can keep up with it and that energy bills remain affordable. That Mr Moorlag's sister also thinks: this approach to climate change is also my approach to climate change. That she sees that the improvements needed in our homes also reach her home. And that's not what this law guarantees. That's what we have to do with each other. I very much hope, as I say to Mr Stoffer, that we will be able to do so with the SGP in the coming years. Mr President, I shall now address Mr Bruins as Professor Bruins. It's a pleasure to be able to listen to him. He had a nice debate with Mr Baudet and I think there will be many more. Mr Baudet has tabled a motion calling on the authors of the Climate Act and also addressing ministers on individual responsibility and accountability. That is an important point from Mr Baudet: the ability of politicians to pay for what they are doing, if I understand correctly. That's what I'm here for. Very much so. That is why I am such a passionate supporter of democracy. The whole idea is that if we invent things with the best of intentions here, for example the Climate Act, and the voters disagree with us or disagree with the results, they can deal with them at the next elections. I look with great confidence at the next elections and also at the elections in 2030. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. I would like to thank all my colleagues in the Chamber for their input. It's an important law, an historic moment. As far as I am concerned, this is the beginning of a broad cooperation that will be needed in the coming years to stop climate change.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u249	Thank you very much, Mr Klaver. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u250	Thank you, Madam President. I should like to make two brief points. First of all, Mr Van Raan. In fact, he said in both the first and the second term that the initiators and the parties in the Chamber who already claim to support this law have approached the climate as a normal subject of negotiation. I'd like to disprove that. We may disagree whether the objectives of this law are ambitious enough or not, but this law also regulates that in future we will have a Climate Day every year, a day dedicated to our climate policy and the efforts we as the Netherlands are making to prevent global warming as much as possible. That is unique, because next to Prince's Day we have one other day in the year in which we all reflect on our climate. This shows how important we think it is, and that is what Mr Van Raan offers every year on the fourth Thursday of October the unique opportunity to call for all the attention it deserves for climate policy. In addition to that climate day, there is a unique moment every five years, every two years and every year to ask the Cabinet if the Cabinet is doing enough to prevent global warming. I would therefore like to say once again to Mr Van Raan that this is not a normal and normal subject of negotiation, like all other subjects. This is one of the most urgent issues facing us as a political generation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u251	I would really like to believe Mr Jetten that it is very special. But if it's very special, you don't make a law that states a goal that's unaccountable. I wanted to leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u252	In the first period of our reply, I briefly spoke with Mr Stoffer about the objectives of this law and the role played by the aviation sector in it. I have to answer this a little more precisely than in the first term. The Climate Act deals with national aviation emissions, but not with international aviation emissions. Mr Stoffer was right about that. Not only in the Paris climate agreement, but also in the international context, we are talking about the emission reduction that the aviation sector must impose on itself. There is a huge step to be taken, as Mr Stoffer has rightly pointed out. If further agreements are made on this in the coming years, hopefully this will also offer an opportunity to further strengthen the Dutch Climate Law. I say this in addition to what Mr Stoffer has already asked us as initiators in the first term. Finally. I missed the Christmas dinner of the D66 group tonight. I actually did that with a lot of pleasure...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u253	Well, don't let them know. Don't let them hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u254	Yes, that was in the Old Hall and so was Mr Sienot. I am serious about this, because it is a unique time for us to be able to defend this climate law here tonight with eight groups, with eight initiators. I am very proud that, at a time when we are often accused of a fragmented political landscape in which people no longer want to work together, with eight initiators tonight and a constructive input from the Chamber, we want to tackle such an urgent problem as global warming with a historic climate law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u255	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy to assess the motions addressed to the government. He's got to go all the way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u256	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 56 asks the government to make the emission gap clear. The emissions gap is a global concept that cannot be allocated to countries. We report other things, but there is no national translation of an emission gap. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 56. The motion in part No. 57 calls on the government to welcome the IPCC Special Report. That has happened by now. It was also sent to the Chamber. The motion also calls for this "to be put first in Dutch climate policy." In that respect, I should like to say a little modesty. It is up to the observer himself to see if we are putting that first, but we have a very clear policy. 49% is the stake. 55% will be the stakes. Zero emission for 2050. It is up to Mr Van Raan to determine whether he puts that first, but I do advise against the motion because I do not say that a priori. We have the policy, and that's the key. So I'm deceiving the motion in part no. 57. The Dutch Government also does not wish to deal with the catering of foreign organizations, i.e. the motion in part No. 58 I have to advise against. The motion in part No. 59 calls on the government to take all necessary measures to comply with the judgment in the climate case. Yes, that's the meaning of the judgment, so the judge has already given a judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 60 requests the government to pay attention! To facilitate the PBL by making the right policy instruments available. The PBL has no policy and no policy instruments. The government has policy instruments. Mr Van Raan is not enthusiastic about all policy instruments, but policy instruments are up to the government and not to the PBL. Perhaps Mr Van Raan means that the government needs to define more clearly what its policy instruments are, so that the PBL can pass it on. But that's exactly what happened with the energy agreement he mentioned earlier, so apparently that's possible. In addition, policy is at the forefront of the fact that it works and not necessarily that it is so categorized that the PBL is the easiest to pass on. If we have a policy that we think is sensible, then we ask the PBL to pass it on. I really need to dissuade this. Mr. Chairman. Then there is one more question from Mr Kops. What part of the 100 billion goes to Africa? I have no idea. The debate is not about it, nor is it an issue on the Dutch budget. I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u257	One question on the motion in part No. 59. It wasn't entirely clear to me. The Minister has said Chamber's judgment, but the motion is completely superfluous, isn't it? Well, then it's customary to dissuade them, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u258	Maybe we're different from habits. I do not want to give the impression in any way that the State would not take a verdict seriously. The motion is completely superfluous. It's just the verdict itself, as I just said. In fact, the advice has already been given by the judge. So I think we are in agreement on the substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u259	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the treatment of the Climate Law. I would like to thank Mr Klaver, Mr Jetten, Mr Asscher, Mrs Beckerman, Mrs Agnes Mulder, Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mrs Dik-Faber and the support staff... and, yes, also Mr Geleijnen, who, after his maiden speech, went straight into trade-k, so I have to get used to that very much. Of course, we are going to vote on it, but I would like to congratulate the initiators on their legislative proposal. It's incredibly hard and hard to work on a bill alongside the ordinary Chamber of Commerce, but you did it. I always think that's something to be proud of as a room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-19-tweedekamer-11.u260	Tomorrow we will vote on the legislative proposal and on the amendments tabled and the motions. I thank everyone, including the staff and the officials, and close the sitting.
