ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the presentation of the annual reports of the National Ombudsman, the Veteran Ombudsman and the Kinder Ombudsman. I would like to welcome the National Ombudsman, Mr Van Zutphen. I would also like to welcome the Kinderombudsman, Mrs Kalverboer, the substitute Ombudsman, Mrs Sylvester, Mr Tunnisen, director of the Bureau of the National Ombudsman, and Mrs Van Dam, environmental manager of the Bureau. Welcome to the President's Lodge. It is now a nice tradition for the National Ombudsman to present the annual report to the Chamber in plenary. In doing so, the Chamber clearly expresses the importance it attaches to the work of the National Ombudsman. Through the annual report, the Court receives direct information on how public policy is delivered to citizens in everyday practice. The value of this feedback can be very important for our work here in the Chamber. In addition to this fixed value of the annual report, there is also something new to report, namely that this year for the first time the work of the Children's Ombudsman, the annual report of the Children's Ombudsman for the year 2017, and the work of the Veteran Ombudsman are presented in one report. I am therefore very curious and I am happy to give the floor to Mr Van Zutphen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u2	Madam President, thank you again for the opportunity to speak in this Chamber about the work of the National Ombudsman and this year also the Children's Ombudsman and the Veteran Ombudsman. This is a special moment. As you said: one piece, one report, but the report of three different ombudsmen and activities. I would like to say a few words about what is covered in the report. In fact, this report is all about connecting, connecting the ombudsmen with each other, but also connecting the ombudsmen with all those who call on us. We guard the children's rights, we ensure the recognition and appreciation of the veterans, and we keep a close eye on the citizen's perspective. We shall report on this in this document, which I will be able to hand over to you later. Problems experienced by children are, in fact, always problems experienced by their parents. All I have to do is point out poverty and debt. When children grow up in poverty, it is because their families, their households and the elderly who have to take care of them also have to live in poverty. My colleague, the Children's Ombudsman, has spoken with children in Groningen. They talk about what has happened to them and about the tensions they live in in the families, where I myself have spoken with the elderly and have found that social cohesion in Groningen is currently under pressure. Poverty and debt also play for veterans, veterans who return sick, who often have PTSD or have been injured in some other way and who may have lost their jobs. There, too, poverty is lurking. All these people are children, veterans, citizens, residents of our country who are appealing to us, let us know that there are uncertainty, stress and tension, tension about what is to happen, about what the future looks like, and also about how the government and others deal with their interests. This report deals with the way in which we have played our part in this. What are we proud of? Actually, we're all most proud of the 2,000 times we've intervened. So that is not even so much about our major reports or our major investigations of our own accord. This time I would really like to emphasise those 2,000 interventions, which have led to tangible results, a solution to a problem, a different attitude on the part of the government. Of course, those reports are important, reports on Q fever, debt relief and access to facilities, but again: those 2,000 interventions. Let me give you a few examples. A very old gentleman came to us who wanted an old comrade of his with whom he had fought in Korea and who had died, to receive recognition and appreciation. That was also asked for his next of kin. The gentleman, who is now in the 90s, ran into rules and indiscretions. In the end, it has come to the conclusion that a special arrangement has been made, because a rule was needed................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In the practice of the Children's Ombudsman came a minor who had been sentenced to community service and also had to pay compensation. He had performed the community service, but he failed to pay the damages and was then locked up. That detention would not contribute to the payment of the damages, because that did not take place in each other's place. The Kinderombudsman intervened and after consultation with the officer the boy was released. There's been an arrangement. The injured person received his compensation and the boy was again learning free man. From my own practice the example of an older lady who was registered in the BRP as living at an address where others were also registered. That was just not true, that really wasn't right. The BRP was not good in that respect. I describe how much trouble it has taken to ensure that the lady who depended on a rent payment finally got that supplement again. Because to get someone who lives "ghostly" at your address out of there, that's not easy yet. It required the Ombudsman to do so. Those are the stories you read in the annual report. What can you expect from us in the coming years? Firstly, we need to know what is happening in society. So you will find us everywhere, perhaps at the Housekeeping Fair when you get there; that's where we are too. We want to know what is happening in society. If we don't know that, we can't do our job properly. So we will be visible in the provinces, in the villages and in the congregations and talk to the people, because only if we know what concerns them and we go to them ourselves will we know what is going on. We will encourage the municipalities, as well as others, to resolve the complaints they receive themselves and not to wait until the Ombudsman gets his turn. They must ensure that it is resolved at the first-line level, or rather immediately if there is a signal that something is going wrong. Then the citizens and the children and the veterans will be helped much better than they are now. And, of course, we'll make sure that connection I started with is settled. We will avoid, at least trying to prevent, the link between the Ombudsman and the people, for example in the social domain. We see that, after decentralisation, it becomes more difficult for citizens to come to us, by creating all kinds of complex privatised systems that have led the Ombudsman, and thus the complaints about public authorities, to come at a great distance from the citizens. We don't think that's right. So that's where you'll meet us. By the way, I may be allowed to take another side step towards something that may still be coming into your Chamber, namely the Intelligence and Security Services Act. Once again, the Ombudsman is no longer the one to complain to. I regret that. Perhaps you could reconsider this. In short, full attention to the connection, not only the connection between the three of us and the people in our office, but precisely the connection with all those who need us and not to forget, the citizens of Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba. A conclusion, Madam President. I am very proud of this annual report: the first but not the last time we are allowed to present the three reports to you in one piece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-28-tweedekamer-4.u3	On behalf of the Chamber, I would like to thank you very much for the annual report. From the annual report, but also from your explanatory statement, it is clear that your work for the year 2017 has been done with great care and dedication. Through you, I would also like to thank the Kinderombudsman, Mrs Kalverboer, and the substitute Ombudsman, Mrs Sylvester, and all the staff of the National Ombudsman Bureau for their contribution to this annual report. I will place the annual report of the National Ombudsman in the hands of the permanent committee for internal affairs, on the understanding that the part concerning the work of the Kinderombudsman will be transferred to the permanent committee for VWS. The section relating to the Veteran Ombudsman will be redirected to the Permanent Defence Commission. Further procedures will be agreed on how these reports will be dealt with. That concludes the presentation of this report. Thank you again for being here. And maybe until next time.
