ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u1	The next item is foreign and asylum policy. I welcome the Secretary of State for Justice and Security and give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u2	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions to do with the children's pardon. That's back at the top of the agenda. The Secretary of State should seize his opportunity by taking over these motions. The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the working criterion results in a very strict interpretation of the child's pardon;]] [[noting that around 400 rooted children staying in the Netherlands for more than five years have not been able to claim the children's pardon;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the children's pardon so that these approximately 400 children, whose parents have applied for residence, have been in the picture for five years in the Netherlands and parents have been available for return, are still granted a residence permit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas long asylum procedures are partly due to a lack of capacity at the IND;]] [[considers that it should be avoided that asylum seekers, including families with children, stay unnecessarily long in uncertainty in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure adequate capacity at the IND, so that legal deadlines are not exceeded, waiting times are reduced and asylum seekers are quickly clarified,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Kuik, Mr Buitenweg, Mr Akerboom and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2430]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Kuik, Mr Buitenweg, Mr Akerboom and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2431]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u3	The final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government is investigating all aspects contributing to the long-term residence of foreigners, including children;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a departure Moratorium for children staying in the Netherlands for more than five years as long as this study is ongoing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Kuik, Mr Buitenweg, Mr Akerboom and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2432]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u4	Thank you, Mr President. The Party for Animals is also strongly in favour of extending the children's pardon. It is unbearable that hundreds of children are currently living in uncertainty about their fate because of the strict rules. This is contrary to the fundamental principles of a civilised society. Article 3 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child ensures that the child's interests should be the first consideration in all measures. A child who spends more than five years here in the Netherlands evicting to an unknown country will in any case damage his or her development. This is also the case with investigations. That is why I warmly tabled Mr van Dijk's motion for a more generous children's pardon. I will not make any motions myself today. Mr. Chairman. Then there's another group of vulnerable refugees, the Ihbti people. The Secretary of State announced this summer to adapt the IND's work instruction. But messages in Trouw last month show that very little has changed. Asylum lawyers also consider that the rules have become anything but clearer. I would like to know from the Secretary of State why it takes so long to clarify this and adapt the work instruction. I'd like to see the Secretary of State's letter as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u5	Thank you, Mrs Akerboom. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u6	Mr President, thank you. I've got two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Armenian family Tamrazyan was executed after nine years and threatened to be deported to Armenia;]] [[noting that the family lost a professional case brought by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to the Council of State;]] [[noting that the family is hiding in a churchhouse in The Hague to prevent expulsion;]] [[believes that the absence of a child's pardon creates many frustrations within Dutch society;]] [[calls on the Secretary of State for Justice and Security not to expel the Armenian family Tamrazyan by using his discretionary powers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Nemr, born in the Netherlands, is soon to be deported to Iraq;]] [[Considers that it is inhumane to expel a 9-year-old child to a country where it is unsafe and can be killed;]] [[Considering that it is not appropriate to respond to this with an icy indifference and shoulder-picking "Yes, so?" call;]] [[calls on the Secretary of State for Justice and Security to use his discretionary power to grant Nemr the right of residence in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2433]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2434]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u7	I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Nearby, the Bethel Church protects people by keeping a service 24 hours a day. It shows the failure of the policy aimed at deporting as many people as possible; a policy that does not take sufficient account of the importance of children who have grown up in the Netherlands. The Secretary of State unilaterally places the problem on the parents of children who continue to sue. That's too easy to push off. For example, in the case of the Armenian Hayarpi and her family, the judge decided three times that they could stay and three times the state appealed. So you can also say that the State is going through too long and that the children are suffering from it. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the time has come for all parties together to offer a real solution to these 400 children. That's why we signed off on the SP's motions. Mr. Chairman. I myself have a motion on Afghanistan and on people with disabilities in azc's. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas research carried out by RTL News and Defence for Children has shown that seriously ill children and children with disabilities are severely affected by the stressful housing situation in asylum seekers' centres and that adequate care is not sufficiently available;]] [[calls on the Government to align the care and facilities for seriously ill persons and persons with disabilities within asylum seekers' centres with the obligations arising from the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and to inform the Chamber of progress,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Founding that, following the new thematic message, Afghanistan d.d. a relaxation of the admission policy towards families with children was announced by the Government in May 2018;]] [[Considering that, despite this, families with children are still being deported to Afghanistan;]] [[calls on the government to make Afghanistan's country policy more effective for families with children,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Buitenweg, Kuiken and Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2435]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Buitenweg, Kuiken and Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2436]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u9	Thank you. Mr Fritsma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u10	Thank you, Mr President. The general consultation revealed that the cabinet set up a committee to investigate the reasons why rejected asylum seekers' families do not leave the Netherlands. That's just a really cheap trick to buy time. We already know why they don't leave. This is due, for example, to the accumulation of procedures, which is due to the tolerance of illegality and the constant establishment of pardon arrangements. There has already been a committee that has established that, it really does not need to do that again. So what the cabinet shows is nothing but pure political unwillingness to solve known problems, and that is very sad. Mr. Chairman. What is also sad is the terrible arbitrariness that we always see about the application of the discretion of the Secretary of State. All kinds of action groups, media and politicians are working on individual residence issues and always direct the Secretary of State to give residence permits, which often also succeeds. This lobby is huge and fellow chamber members are also involved. They discuss individual cases with the Secretary of State, but do not do so here in all openness, but secretly in back rooms. It refuses to disclose, for example, the number of cases under discussion and the residence permits granted. Any democrat should reject this invisible gloom. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that the uncontrollable back-room policy whereby members of parliament lobby the State Secretary on individual cases for granting residence permits is highly undesirable and should be terminated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2437]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u11	I'm trying to understand this. The honourable Member says that he does not want individual cases to be discussed. I think there are many colleagues here who prefer to have some kind of generic rule, such as a children's pardon. Then it does not have to be discussed per child, but we can offer a solution for those 400 children together. Is that something more appropriate to your idea of democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u12	No, because a child's pardon is a very bad idea. If you always come up with such a pardon scheme or plead for the extension of such a scheme, then you will ensure that asylum seekers' families do not leave the Netherlands. The problem of children growing up in the Netherlands only makes you worse. We do not want an internal backroom policy on individual cases that cannot be controlled, but we certainly do not want generic pardon arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u13	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u14	I've run out of time and filed my only motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u15	Okay, thank you for that, Mr. Fritsma. I am going to Mr Voordewind, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Understanding for those colleagues who are impatient about the children's pardon and its implementation. I have the same impatience, but it has been decided to set up a committee to look at the progress of procedures. I assume that it will not be a shortening of procedures, but that it will be about the speed of procedures. I hope that improvements will be possible. The position of families and of children is also specifically examined. I hope that the existing situation will also be looked at, and I hope that in the meantime, while the committee is doing its job, the Secretary of State will be reluctant to evict children. At the moment, I note that there is no majority in favour of extending the children's pardon. However, I call on the Secretary of State to apply the existing regulation generously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u17	Mr Voordewind called on the Secretary of State to be reluctant to evict children as long as the investigation was ongoing. I think that is quite right, and I agree with him. Would he support my motion calling for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u18	Sorry, I came in a little later, so I still have to study that motion. If that motion involves a moratorium, I prefer to choose my own terms. I just said I hope the Secretary of State is reluctant during the investigation. If we were to proceed to a moratorium, I would break open the coalition agreement and I do not see any reason to do so until now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u19	Finally, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u20	The coalition agreement has been broken open many times, so that seems to me to be a very strange argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u21	But then you'll have to agree with all of us. And I don't see that happening soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u22	Who knows, who knows. I put a purely substantive question to Mr Voordewind. When the government sets up a committee, it recognises that the policy is debatable. Doesn't it make sense to suspend child expulsions until then?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u23	I chose my own words. I call the Secretary of State to restraint. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u24	I always listen very carefully to Mr Voordewind, because he represents the Christian Union government party. Does he realize what his call means? He asks the Secretary of State to be reluctant to take decisions on expulsions. What is worth the statutory departure obligation that rejected asylum seekers have for the Christian Union government party, I wonder. Can anyone just ignore it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u25	The Consultative Commission looks at the procedures currently under way and at how families can still be present here for more than five years. What's that in? Is that a question of stacking procedures? Is this partly due to the government itself and to the Secretary of State and the IND who are going through it? I expect answers to that. Based on the results of that study, we will have to draw further political conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u26	Finally, Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u27	The fact that asylum seekers' families do not leave the Netherlands comes with all due respect by parties such as the Christian Union, who constantly insist on pardon arrangements and want to extend existing pardon arrangements. Of course, asylum seekers' families will not go away. They see that even government parties are busy keeping them here. Do you know what you're doing yourself? You say you want to solve a problem: you want to ensure that asylum seekers' families do not stay too long in the Netherlands, so that the children do not grow up here. But this problem only makes you worse with this behavior itself. I deeply regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u28	Mr Fritsma knows exactly why families here are longer than five years and why they are being rooted. That has everything to do with the procedures they can address. This may also have to do with the many investigations carried out by means of an individual post of office. This also sometimes has to do with the proceedings of the IND or the Secretary of State. This may mean that even the first application for asylum may take longer than five years. So it has to do with our ongoing procedures. Mr. Fritsma can't agree with that, but then he's gonna have to change the law instead of honking here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u29	I do not quite understand exactly what Mr Voordewind's message is. He says on the one hand: be reluctant to expand while the committee is still working on the investigation. On the other hand, he says: be more generous with the children's pardon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u30	Applying the existing children's pardon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u31	Those are actually very empty cries, because you yourself indicate: you are bound by the coalition agreement. It's a little cheap, Mr. Voordewind. It's not that much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u32	If Mr. Azarkan had ruled along, he could have sat at the table. Then we might have had another outcome. But I didn't see that happen. There's a coalition agreement. That is a total package of measures, which contains pluses and minuses. This was a minus for us. There were two parties who said: we want to abolish the children's pardon. There were two parties who said: we want to expand it. I note that the children's pardon, the arrangement as we know it today, is still in place. Within the government agreement and within the existing rules, therefore, my appeal to the Secretary of State to apply it generously remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u33	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u34	Yeah, finally. It's not about me sitting at the table. Of course, that's a bit of a cheap you-bake. It would be a good thing if you just said, "I can't do anything for those people." It's a bit of a cheap call. Be clear and tell me there's nothing you can do. You have no idea how generous you are. So you can vote in favour of Mr Van Dijk's motion and then you are worthy of your word. You will say: no expulsion of children as long as the investigation is ongoing. But a little half-baked scream doesn't grace you. It's just so skinny! It's not that much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u35	I understand it's easy to control the world from the interrupting microphone. But I note at the same time that the Christian Union and D66, but also the parties VVD and CDA have called for a committee to look further at how we can prevent people from staying in the Netherlands for more than five years. That has everything to do with the procedures. There's an advisory report coming up now. I also called in the debate for this to be organised as quickly as possible, so that we do not have to spend another year or more. I understand it's coming to the Chamber sometime around April. Then we will have to look again at what we can do, firstly to prevent children and families from being here for more than five years. Secondly, we need to look at the existing situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u36	Just to clarify. A committee is working on a report on shortening procedures, so that there will be far fewer children in the situation as children are now in if the state keeps suing. Do you expect that report to provide a solution to broadening the children's pardon for the children who have already suffered? Is that the Christian Union's commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u37	I've been looking into the work instruction of this committee. It explicitly states that families with children are being looked at. It also explicitly states that the procedures are being looked at. I'm not going to anticipate the results right now. I'll wait for the advice. Based on those advices, the ball will be back in the Chamber and we need to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u38	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u39	That's two things. I understand very well that you want to take into account families with children in the procedures that will then apply from now on. That is the committee's commitment, but you also said in your introduction that you hope that we will receive some sort of children's pardon. Is it your commitment to talk about a children's pardon on the basis of that committee, or is it actually divorced?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u40	Things are getting mixed up now. In my introduction, I said that it is no secret that the Christian Union has always advocated a wider children's pardon. The outcome is well known: there is no extension of the children's pardon in the coalition agreement. I now call on the Secretary of State to apply the existing children's pardon generously, but of course I have always done so in the past. I note that a committee is going to work and I am not going to anticipate the conclusions. The committee has to do its job and if the recommendations are here, we will look at them as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u41	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u42	Mr. Chairman. I have been spokesperson on asylum/migration for about a year and a half. At that time I learned that there are few themes surrounded with as much emotion as this subject. The general consultation we held in September, a few days after the Secretary of State's decision that the Armenian children, Lili and Howick, were allowed to stay, was a very strong example of this. The children's pardon, which again plays a major role today, is the point where migration policy is suddenly no longer abstract. It is no longer about drowning far away in the Mediterranean Sea or about ongoing negotiations in Brussels, but about good Dutch-speaking children. And all of a sudden, foreign policy gets a human face. We often agree on statements such as'strong but just' or'real refugees can stay forever, but other people must leave quickly'. But in daily practice it is infinitely more complex. The truth is rarely pure and never simple, said Oscar Wilde, and on few themes that is as true as on the theme "migration." Mr. Chairman. My group would have liked to have seen a wider children's pardon. In the formation we have committed ourselves to this. The VVD and the CDA wanted to abolish the pardon, we and the Christian Union wanted to broaden it. We've been able to keep it happy the way it is. For an extension of the children's pardon, there is now no majority in the House of Representatives. My group believes that this is more than acidic, but it is the political reality at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u43	In the meantime, the cabinet has also decided to set up a committee. We were just talking about it. Isn't it a logical outcome for D66 to stop the expulsions of children as long as the investigation of that committee is ongoing?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u44	No, because I have just explained to you that we would have liked to have seen a wider children's pardon, but that was not possible. Some parties wanted to get rid of it completely, because they said: we have to get rid of the expulsion of children at all. What has happened in the end is that it has collapsed in the compromise to maintain the status quo. At the moment, there is no majority to change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u45	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u46	But the coalition has decided to have this sensitive subject examined in a committee. Was the coalition also saying at the time that the investigation is taking place: will we then use a freeze? Did your party bring that in? I think that is quite right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u47	I think there are some misunderstandings about that committee. What that committee is going to do is to investigate how people who aren't supposed to be here sometimes stay in the Netherlands for years. I do not know exactly what the findings of that committee will be, but my suspicion is that this too will find out that this is a very complex situation and that there are several reasons. But I can't anticipate that. In the meantime, the situation, as I have just outlined, is that the children's pardon regime remains as it was before the formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u48	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u49	Mr. Chairman. As I said in the general discussion, I know, like no other, how grumpy a coalition can be from time to time. But just when it pinches, you have to keep looking for space. That is one of the reasons why we have tabled motions and that we have tabled an initiative legislative proposal to better anchor children's rights. That is why I am asking the following question to the Secretary of State. An investigation is now taking place to see how the stacking of procedures works, or how it can be inhibited. But if there appear to be factors which, despite normal procedures, cause families with children to get into trouble outside their own fault or because of the role of the government, is it conceivable that there will be some kind of extension of the child's pardon, especially on the criterion of participation? That's my first question. My second question to the Secretary of State concerns the interview he gave to the Volkskrant. In that he says: I am a human being, thankfully we are all, but I do not think the rights of human children are so important when it comes to assessing asylum procedures. Did he literally mean it that hard, or is that crooked? It seems to me that it is very essential to anchor children's rights, which are also human rights, precisely because children are very vulnerable and because they are very dependent on adults like us. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. As I mentioned earlier, we now see that a number of children have been in the Netherlands for a very long time and that this causes distressing situations. That is why I think you have a duty to see how you can solve that and whether you can extend it. That is why I supported the motions tabled by Mr van Dijk, among others. I also supported a number of other motions: on Afghanistan and the vulnerability of children who could be sent back there and on the Ihbti people, on which Mr Akerboom made a justified remark. I would also like to comment on that. That's the end of it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. Mr Voordewind has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u51	It is, of course, commendable that Mrs Kuik signs Mr Jasper van Dijk's motion, but I note that Mrs Kuik was an asylum spokesperson during the previous cabinet, and has had five years to settle this. Why didn't she take care of it then?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u52	If you point with a big finger, you point at yourself with some fingers. I hope Mr Voordewind knows that. You had a new coalition agreement. You knew how hard the children's pardon was. You didn't do anything. So don't start blaming me now. What we have done in the previous period is to start with a legislative proposal to better anchor children's rights. We have called on the Cabinet to look very specifically at how the criterion of participation is working. Do we see any scope for broadening? You sat at the table with D66. You were strong with two men, and you didn't arrange anything. I think that is a really missed opportunity, as I said in the previous debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u53	Finally, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u54	The big difference between the composition of this Chamber and that of the previous Chamber is that you had a majority with the left. ChristianUnion and D66 do not currently have a majority in favour of extending the children's pardon. That is a new reality. You can blame us for that, but there is no majority. That's how democracy works. But you did have that majority. Now you make cheap decoration by saying: ChristianUnion, you should have taken care of it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u55	Once again, when you conclude a coalition agreement, you are negotiating with parties. Then you have the opportunity to make agreements with two parties versus two parties in a coalition agreement. We have arranged a child's pardon, a temporary child's pardon and a permanent child's pardon. We found out that this permanent children's pardon scheme didn't work quite as it should. You had great words in the previous period. I'm not gonna take you down on that. I wasn't standing here. But don't blame me now, when you've lost the only chance you've had. There's only one person to charge for that, and that's you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u56	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van Oosten. No? He doesn't want his input. I see the Secretary of State needs two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u57	I will reopen the meeting and give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u58	Mr. Chairman. There have been some questions that I cannot answer on the basis of motions tabled. First of all, that is Mrs Akerboom's question about the assessment of Ihbti's, and I also think converts, because they were part of the same change. It states that very little has changed and wants to know when the work instruction is changed. This isn't my image. Work instruction has been adapted this summer. I also saw reports in the media that work would still be done according to the old way of working. I think that this is particularly true in the case-law, of whether cases were pending before the new work instruction. But to further explain this, I have promised the Chamber in the AO to discuss it further in a letter. That letter will be sent to the Chamber in a few days. I will explain it in detail. But the most important thing is that the work instruction has been modified. Applications are now being made in accordance with the new work instruction. Mrs Kuik asked me if there could be room for adjustment, for example in the codecision criterion, on the basis of the expected results of the Van Zwol Committee. My answer to this question is that I really do not want to anticipate the results and opinions of this committee. I gave them the free hand to answer the questions asked as they see fit. So I'm just waiting like the Chamber to see what the committee comes up with. If there are opinions, then that is the time to assess them with each other. I don't want to anticipate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u59	But that also means you're not ruling it out? Let me get that straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u60	I have no idea what the advice will be. If I set up a committee, that means at least that I will take the opinions that are going to be issued very seriously. But the moment that these opinions are available is also the time to have that debate. Just because I gave that committee room for manoeuvre doesn't mean I never rule anything out in advance. We will then assess the feasibility of the opinions and so on, in debate with your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u61	I told you, I like to see space. So this is what I've been hearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u62	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kuik's other question was about the rights of the child. I hear a statement that I cannot quite say as a quote. So let me just tell you what I think is going on here. The rights of the child have a clear place in our asylum system. They weigh well, but are not decisive in all cases. They're one of the things that weighs in the assessment. It is also a misconception that the rights of the child can in all cases be derived from a right of residence in our country. That is how it has been applied in the past. There's a lot of case law about that, as I put in the paper. We follow this case law, but neither does it say that the rights of the child are decisive in all cases. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the assessment of the motions. The Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 2430 is about extending the children's pardon. I will briefly summarize what I have already said in the AO about the current children's pardon scheme. It is a policy that we have had for five years and which can be objectively assessed whether the government should grant a permit on the basis of long-term residence. It takes into account the foreigner's own actions. Five years ago, this was also debated here in the Chamber. He is expected to have actively worked on his return. It is therefore also, by its very nature, a scheme for which few people will be eligible. In my words, the regulation is for those who are not able to return, but not for those who do not want to return. As such, she was also the final piece around the generous, temporary arrangement we had then, in which a large number of people were once granted. But by putting this arrangement aside, the message was at the same time: if you do not qualify for it, there is not much hope, little hope, that you will be eligible for it again in the future. For this reason, the regulation we now know is intended for very few people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u63	And what's the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u64	The verdict is that I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u65	The first signatory to the motion is Mr Jasper van Dijk. Mrs Buitenweg is also underneath, but I do not allow anyone who has signed to interrupt. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u66	It's about the criterion that you must have worked on your return. But let's say that the State has always entered into an appeal procedure and the judge has always held in successive cases that someone is allowed to stay. What if the five-year period is exceeded and people themselves have not made an attempt to return, because the judge has ruled they were allowed to stay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u67	The regulation is also clear on this point. At the time of another procedure, you are not yet in a position to actually return to your country of origin. But even then there may be situations where you are already deemed to be preparing for the moment when this is being discussed. This too has been part of the scheme for five years and is taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u68	Finally, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u69	Finally. So even if a judge says three times that you're allowed to stay here and in those years you don't encourage you to return, even then you have to return from the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u70	Then you must at least make preparations for the moment that return would be on the agenda. For example, it can't be that you don't cooperate, never show up on a departure call, and every time you say you don't think you're ever going to leave. Mr Voordewind has also asked a question about this. He asked for the existing regulation to be applied generously. The existing regime is based on criteria. That's what's being tested. I suppose people know for themselves whether they comply with those rules or not. For people who comply with the rules, an agreement follows. For people who do not meet the criteria, this cannot be the case. The motion in part No. 2431 by Mr Van Dijk concerns sufficient capacity at the IND. I do not share the considerations, namely that the problems are always caused by a lack of capacity in the IND. Yesterday, during Question Time, we discussed this in detail. I explained at that time what steps have been taken and are being taken to recruit and train people in order to regain sufficient capacity. These efforts are in line with what I read in the request to the government. I therefore believe that the proposers and I agree on the objective. I would like to make a comment on that. Yesterday I indicated that it did not result overnight. Recruitment is difficult in the current labour market. Luckily, we're still fine at the IND. Moreover, people need to be trained before we can put them into this work. I'll add that expectation management, but with that expectation management in mind, I'd like to leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 2432 by Mr Van Dijk is about the departure Moratorium. As long as the Van Zwol Committee conducts an investigation, I advise against the motion. The aim of the research is precisely to map out how to prevent people whose applications for admission have been rejected from staying in the Netherlands for a long time. What is asked in the motion does not rhyme in itself with this aim, because it would mean letting people stay in the Netherlands for a while longer. That is not the signal I want to send, also because this is not the right signal to many people who have been in the Netherlands for a long time, against my better knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u71	Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u72	But you can turn that argument around, can't you? The government recognises that there is a discussion about the length of proceedings, decides to investigate them and then says: we will continue with all expulsions and we will not change our policies. You might as well say: until then, we will wait for expulsions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u73	Mr Van Dijk is trying to reverse that reasoning, but I am not going to reverse that reasoning. The purpose of the committee is precisely to come up with recommendations to limit long-term stays in the future. This does not mean that people who are already staying for a long time will have to stay even longer. A lot of these people have known for a long time that a future is not in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u74	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u75	But in this case they stay even longer because the government decides to conduct an investigation. The government can also follow the reasoning: listen, there are children here for a long time now, out of their fault, they are entitled to a wider pardon, but for the new cases we are going to ensure a faster procedure. Do you share that thought?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u76	No. I don't share that thought, because there's always an option for people who can return. They can return on their own. If that is not possible and forced return is on the agenda, so is people who know for a long time that this is going to happen. The motions on the documents Nos. 2433 and 2434 by Mr Azarkan are the same, albeit for two different persons. I wanted to take them together and dissuade them for that reason. I do not go into all aspects of individual matters. Or how I use the discretionary power, I rely solely on all the circumstances in the entire file. How that works in width, I have already reported more extensively to the Chamber during the AO. Then the motion to part No. 2435 by Mrs Buitenweg and Mrs Kuik and Mr Van Dijk on the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I believe that the reception we offer is already in line with the UN Convention on Disabled Persons. The COA and its employees make every effort to take care of the residents as well as possible. This will also take account of any specific housing needs, and in many cases it will be possible to do so. For example, people who are badly on their feet or in wheelchairs are placed on the ground floor or in an elevator. Special facilities can also be created for them. At the same time, the COA receives hundreds of new residents every week. Then it is not possible to predict in advance which and how many specific housing needs these different people have. So what we do at the COA is we review every time where the residents who are concerned can best be taken care of. If there are specific housing needs, tailor-made solutions will have to be considered, as well as adjustments or additional guidance and care. We are also doing this because we take into account the temporary nature of the reception and the available reception facilities. Sometimes even the realization of facilities takes more time than the resident is present in the shelter, for example because he or she has already flowed to a municipality. In certain cases, it may also be necessary to take care of people in a care facility or to arrange and deploy other care. If that applies, it will. This is a number of examples to show that we always take into account the specific circumstances of the different asylum seekers who are being received by the COA and that we are acting in accordance with the UN Convention on Disabled Persons. Of course, I also know that earlier this year it was once in the news that it may not sometimes be in a situation. We also went for that right away and there we found suitable custom solutions. I also like to hear it when there are cases where it doesn't work out, but the basis of the policy is that we really do manage that well with each other. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. Then the motion to part No. 2436 over Afghanistan. I would advise against this, because the asylum policy for Afghanistan that we adapted in the summer does not mean that being a minor alone is sufficient for an asylum permit. The starting point of the policy is also always the individual circumstances. In each case, it is carefully assessed whether the account is sufficient to provide asylum protection on the basis of the country's policy. We have extended this summer, but I have also said that this does not automatically apply to everyone. But enlargement has been used and requests from people who meet it are also accepted on that basis. Then the motion to part No. I think that is the last of Mr Fritsma's words. Mr Fritsma would like to have the same answers as I have just given to Mr Azarkan in response to his motions. I say it again: media attention and requests from your Chamber or from others do not determine whether I exercise my discretion. It is always only an assessment of the entire file, of everything that is found in it and of all individual circumstances, which can lead to the conclusion that there are individual very poignant factors that make it possible to agree. It doesn't matter who makes the request. It doesn't matter how that happened. Actually, I'm just gonna get rid of that, too. I'm just judging the whole file. But to give a judgment: that motion is not addressed to the cabinet, so I do not have to judge it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u77	No, because there's no request. It says, "Calls out."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u78	That's true. However, the Secretary of State has responded to this in substance. Then I also have a question about it, because it is not just about discretion. It's also about openness. I have repeatedly asked this Secretary of State, as well as other Secretary of State, how many cases there is in contact with fellow politicians. How often has a residence permit been issued? I've asked colleagues. The answer is always: I don't say. Then a very uncomfortable situation arises. The Secretary of State must be able to imagine this, because behind the scenes there will be contact about individual cases, but for me as a representative of the people that is completely out of control. Isn't that undemocratic? The Secretary of State has to admit that, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u79	I repeat what I said in general consultation. When there is contact, it usually goes in a rather twentieth-century way: just through a letter to me. It is therefore by definition a one-way street. I'm never gonna argue. In that respect, a letter, arguments or judgements do not make any sense at all. I'm not gonna do that. The moment someone asks my attention to a particular file, I ask for the whole file and base my judgment purely on what I find in it. I have already indicated the second in general consultation: most of the cases are still before me by my own officials from the IND, in accordance with the reason for including this article in the Foreign Affairs Decision. At the time, when the law was being dealt with, it has already been said that you may be following all the criteria and not getting a permit, and that it does not feel right with the officials who are preparing the decision. There is an opportunity to present it to the Secretary of State if there really are distressing individual factors. That's what's gonna happen. That is, I think, the largest category of things that are submitted to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u80	Once again, I cannot control the latter, because nobody tells me how many things you are discussing with fellow politicians. Colleague politicians themselves say that they are discussing matters with you. Of course, this is a very shady world. I think it is an important point, so I still have a follow-up question. You know as well as I do that people at the IND are anything but happy about this. They also say to me: "Listen, we have rejected applications for stays up to nine times. Up to nine times, the judge has told them to leave. Then a matter is politically sensitive, there is contact with politicians and then there is a residence permit at once!" That's impossible, isn't it? At least open up. How many cases are involved and how many cases have been granted residence permits by this kind of intervention by fellow politicians?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u81	We are always open about the number of cases and the acceptance rate. Those figures shall be provided periodically to the Chamber. Those were also provided by my predecessors. I do not know when this will happen again, but that is at least once a year when reporting. Actually, I was gonna leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u82	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-13.u83	Ove the motions tabled we will vote next Tuesday.
