ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on the position of regional hospitals. I would like to welcome the Minister of Medical Care. I apologize for starting the debate later than planned. The previous debate ended a bit because a lot of motions had been tabled, some 21, which took a little time. I shall then give Mrs Van den Berg the floor on behalf of the CDA as the first speaker. Speaking time is four minutes per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The CDA believes that everyone is entitled to good care nearby, whether you live in a large city or in a small village. The importance of a regional hospital is as great as that of an academic hospital. This is true of the quality of care, because accessibility is part of the quality of care, but the survival of a regional hospital is also necessary for the viability of a region. In recent years, we have seen what happens when an intensive care or emergency service has to close. The whole organization will be under pressure from declining revenues. There is an emptying-out of specialised personnel, which is already so difficult to find in the region. The hospital comes, in short, as an organization in a death home construction. As a result, patients in the region have lost their trusted hospital close by and they have to continue to travel for basic care. Parts of our country are becoming less and less liveable. It is indigestible for the CDA if this process is fueled by strengthened standards that are not even widely worn in the care field, especially if these standards do not explicitly take into account the importance of the region's viability. Mr. Chairman. The association of regional hospitals has the emergency bell sound, Four out of ten regional hospitals cannot meet the new requirements of intensive care. According to the Minister, is this number correct? Yesterday, the Minister wrote that the SAZ and the NVIC are working on an addendum to the directive which will enable customization and the exclusive availability of the intensiveists in the evening, the night and the weekend would no longer be necessary. Does that mean these intensive cares can stay open? Will the Minister promise that the inspection will not interfere with these hospitals until the addendum is entered in the register? Mr. Chairman. During Question Time, the Minister indicated that, when keeping an intensive care in a regional hospital open, a balance must be sought where the viability is also a factor. How is this balance sought? How's the inspection handling that? The Minister also indicated that if a new standard of quality results in enormous costs, the Minister will carry out a budget impact analysis. Of course, that is right, but why should the Minister intervene if the costs get out of hand, but not if the viability in the region is at stake or the diversity in representation is not in order? Can a social cost-benefit analysis with specific impacts on the quality of life in the region become part of the new quality standards? Could the...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u3	Finish your sentence first, Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u4	I have two short paragraphs left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u5	Then I suggest you read it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u6	Okay. Can the Minister at least undertake to include such an analysis in the analysis that the Healthcare Authority is currently making of the impact of the quality framework to which the emergency aid must comply? Finally, Mr President. The inspection indicated that it found the justification of Treant's decision to close departments in Stadskanaal and Hoogeveen insufficient and that there was insufficient consultation with the partners in the region. So this is an example of how we should not. It is therefore good to see that the inspection closely monitors communication and the process. Will the Minister undertake to inform the Chamber in good time in the coming months about the route of inspection with Treant?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u7	The story of Mrs Van den Berg is taken from my heart, but it departs from the Minister's story. Since Mrs Van den Berg is part of the coalition, I also want butter with the fish. I would like to know the following from Mrs Van den Berg. One: do the regional hospitals, even after entering into the new quality requirements of the new directive, remain open when it comes to the CDA? Two: she talked about affordability at macro level, the new bill coming up; is she going to block it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u8	We want a much more careful process and other factors to be taken into account when assessing these quality standards. That's what we call a vitality test. The minister is looking at the money now. We are pleased that the money is being looked at, but we think it is even more important that the impact on people is also looked at. There must therefore be extensive consultation in the region between health insurers and all those involved. That didn't happen in Drenthe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u9	But that's not what the minister says. So there I see a huge discrepancy. Actually, the minister's keeping his head down. He says: it is not up to the Minister to set quality standards of substance and therefore not to determine whether the hospital should remain open or close. That's not the Minister's concern. The CDA says yes, but we do. I agree with the CDA, but is the CDA going to ask the Minister to do so? Does the Minister's CDA demand that this quality of life test should not only be carried out, but that it should also be decisive and that, as far as the financial frameworks are concerned, butter should be delivered to the fish?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u10	I think Mrs Agema is going to support our motion, so I welcome that. It is true that we want this quality of life test to be part of the assessment of quality standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u11	I have also listened with interest to the CDA's speech. I do know the outcome of that research on viability, namely that the Refaja Hospital in Stadskanaal and the Bethesda Hospital in Hoogeveen should remain open and that emergency care, intensive care and clinical obstetrics, thus giving birth in the hospital, should simply be guaranteed. Does the CDA agree? Is Mrs Van den Berg prepared to send a clear message today to the Minister to ensure that these hospitals do indeed remain fully open, as do all those departments?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u12	We believe that the quality of life should be taken into account in the assessments and b that there should be very good consultation. Then together we can determine what remains open in the region. We do not think that we, as Members of Parliament, should give a ruling on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u13	In doing so, the CDA takes up the same position as the Minister, who also looks away and actually uses only one criterion, namely the 45 minutes criterion. If that is not violated, the game can continue. But in recent years, we've seen hospitals being demolished and demolished. Isn't it time to really hit a picket pole and say: it's over, just no department closes? Let us take action for Hoogeveen and City Canal, where it is now up to date.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u14	So we are not just using the 45 minutes criterion. We say, no, you have to look at the viability of the whole region. Because it is precisely a regional hospital that has an impact on total employment and all other care aspects in the chain. At least today we received a letter from the obstetricians from Drenthe. They say: if you close that one hospital, it will have enormous consequences for what goes on in the chain. We therefore believe that these aspects should be taken into account in this whole assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. I now give the floor to Mr Van Gerven on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u16	Mr. Chairman. More than 100 years ago, the first stone of the Wilhelmina Hospital was laid in Assen, originating from the population and an involved mayor. The people went around with the hat in front of their hospital. And the hospital got there. Now we live in 2018. 111 years later, we must fear the emergency and intensive care of this community hospital. The Wilhelmina stands for many other regional hospitals that are in danger and where decommissioning is imminent. How is it possible in a country that is so much richer than 111 years ago? The Refaja in Stadskanaal is on fire, just like the Bethesda Hospital in Hoogeveen, where clinical obstetrics, the birth in the hospital, is now in danger of disappearing. And what about the Waterland in Purmerend? Also the clinical obstetrics away. And at the Ruigaard van Putten in Spijkenisse or the Hofpoort in Woerden you can no longer speak of fully-fledged hospitals. At all these regional hospitals, we need to be equally economical. After all, when a hospital is gone, it doesn't come back. And over the past decades, so many general hospitals have disappeared. We have to stop this breakdown. Hands off regional hospitals, I'd like to say. They are crucial to the viability of the region. The accessibility of a good basic hospital is becoming increasingly important, also in view of the increasing ageing population. The hospital around the corner, that should stay. Today we have another gallery full of people, traveled from a region where a hospital is in danger of disappearing. By spending a day travelling to The Hague and attending this debate, they once again show how important regional hospitals are for them. Let's listen to them. That means the helm has to be turned. Politics is the move. Let us make the following promise to the regions throughout the country. All regional hospitals remain open seven days a week, 24 hours a day. That always means good care close. We can achieve this by immediately announcing a merger ban and a ban on further scaling up in basic hospital care. Emergency services, clinical obstetrics or intensive care are no longer closed. The disappearance of hospitals is explained by the mantra that even larger hospitals provide better quality and work more efficiently. That is a justification for cutting down departments, so as to justify the fact that we do not train enough specialists. It has not been demonstrated that the quality of care in regional hospitals is worse. In addition, quality is also about livingability and accessibility, for patients and their families. Much has been said about the guidelines for good care in emergency care and intensive care. Customisation must be applied. A regional hospital is not an academic hospital with heavier patients. Customisation and cooperation are needed. We need to help regional hospitals with a small-scale cost cover so that they are also financially able to keep emergency care and intensive care open and attract sufficiently qualified staff. I'd like to hear from the Minister that he's no longer looking away. He's acting. He must guarantee that clinical obstetrics, ic's and emergency services in Hoogeveen and Stadskanaal remain open. After all, where the market fails, politics must intervene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Van Gerven. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias of 50PLUS. All variations of your name have passed the past period!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u18	Mr. Chairman. I listen to all of them, but the emphasis is on the last syllable. Centralising knowledge and expertise is a good thing, but not if at the same time it puts pressure on the coverage of general hospitals. We see that more and more hospitals decide to close the emergency room, as recently in Hengelo. This always causes great unrest among the inhabitants of the region. That is right, because that is indeed an attack on viability. There are fewer emergency services left while the flow towards them and the pressure on them is increasing. According to many doctors, this is a result of the closure of nursing homes and the inadequate buying-in of care by municipalities, which sometimes means that people at home get too little care and therefore get to the hospital sooner. On top of that, rules are tightened so that it becomes increasingly difficult for small hospitals to keep their heads above water. An example of this is the IC Directive, which requires that an intensive care doctor be present at each hospital seven days a week and that he or she should also be available exclusively for the ic. That's gonna cost a hospital extra money and manpower. At a smaller hospital, it is possible that an ic-doctor occasionally jumps into the emergency room. Mrs van den Berg has already asked a few questions about this. I'm curious about the answers to that. The Institute of Public Sector Efficiency Studies says that if half of the smallest acute care departments close, this will only save 0.5% of the total hospital budget. In addition, closing the emergency services will have an adverse effect which will make it even more difficult for small hospitals to survive. The fear of cooperating general hospitals is that when most of the ic and emergency services close, this will lead to a chain reaction. Without these two departments, patients stay away, who then go to other hospitals where there is an ICU department or an emergency room. The best staff will follow quickly, while it is already difficult to compete with larger hospitals at this time of shortage. How does the Minister view this dreaded domino effect? Reducing the number of hospitals reduces the accessibility for the patient and visiting family members. 50PLUS believes it is a good development that large centres of expertise are being created, but this should be independent of proper coverage by general hospitals. If the closure of half of the smallest acute care departments only saves 0.5% of the total hospital budget, a different distribution of budgets might be a solution for keeping these emergency care departments open and thus increase their chances of survival. What is the Minister's thoughts on this? Is he willing to talk to the health insurance company about this? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u19	Thank you, Mrs Sazias. I now give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u20	Mr. Chairman. Everyone agrees that quality of care is extremely important. Fortunately, I have already heard a number of colleagues say that it is also important to liveability and that we need to involve it more strongly in the discussions on care. Directives are often about quality and are very important to organise good care and keep quality up to date. At present, the new IC Directive threatens to do more harm than good, especially for regional hospitals. In the final analysis, the Healthcare Institute had to use its perseverance power to implement the directive. The result is that there is a directive, but not all parties can agree. Can the Minister explain the course of that process? One of the major objections raised by regional hospitals is that there are simply not enough people to comply with the directive. The Minister indicated earlier that he would check whether there are sufficient intensiveists to meet the quality standard. According to him, there are. The question is whether there are any in the region. The Minister has indicated that he is going to investigate. Just as he promised to investigate exactly the shortage of pediatricians in Hoogeveen and Stadskanaal. I think it would be useful if all this information were to be available before 1 July, when the IC Directive enters into force. Moreover, the information on this deficit can be taken into account in the decision on Treant to be final in the summer. Can the Minister guarantee that he will have more information on this before 1 July? What will he do if it becomes known that there is indeed a deficit in the region? Will the deadline for 1 July be postponed? I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. The Directive provides that an intensivist must be exclusively available for the ic. Mrs Sazias mentioned that too. On a large ic with twenty beds that is undoubtedly useful, but I doubt that is also true for the smaller ic's. If you have eight or ten beds, where half the patients are stable, I wonder if that's necessary. How does the Minister intend to interpret the concept of "presence" in the directive in a broader, broader way and to allow more tailor-made work, looking at the size of the hospital? It is not a question of drawing up a new directive, but of making more sense of it. I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. The parties are now also preparing an addendum. Does the Minister have any idea whether they can reach agreement before 1 July? In the letter, the Minister states that quality standards are not binding. That's a very interesting comment. I would ask the Minister to go into that more closely. Can the Minister take away the concern that if these regional hospitals do not have an intensivist exclusively on the ICI 24/7, those ICI departments cannot remain open? The Minister mentions as an alternative to closing an ICU department to scale the department to a medium-care department or a high-care department. As far as I know, medium care is not defined in a directive and therefore there is no payment title for it. That does not seem to me to be a very workable solution. I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. The IC Directive ensures that intensiveists are sometimes unnecessary on the ic. They should always be there. That doesn't necessarily make the appeal more enjoyable. In addition, it may also cost the hospitals unnecessarily. The fact that it is becoming increasingly expensive for hospitals can lead to the fact that ICU departments need to be closed down. That has far-reaching consequences for a hospital like this. The closure of the pediatrics and obstetrics departments in Hoogeveen and Stadskanaal also has consequences for the viability and accessibility. Even the inspection has serious concerns about that. She wants more information on the accessibility of care, especially with regard to the 45 minute standard and the possibility to give birth at home. The Minister has already pointed out that accessibility is reduced by saying that some patients may need to travel a little further than previously. Can the Minister clarify this? I can tell you from my own experience that if you're pregnant and you have to go to a hospital, you don't want to travel for 45 minutes. Mr. Chairman. Does the Minister indeed expect a number of hospitals to close? Does he already have an idea of the number of hospitals that do not comply with the directive? Please learn more about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u21	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u22	Thank you, Mr President. The Christian Union considers it important that care close to people is available, also basic hospital care. Everyone prefers to go to the nearest regional hospital for common treatments. The Minister has previously indicated that the availability of basic care in the region is also of great importance to him. If decisions are taken that affect basic care, the Minister believes that there should be a careful process, involving the municipalities and residents. Eventually, however, the ball lies near the care field. It is now the care field that has created new standards for intensive care and emergency care. The IC Directive has been in force for several years. This and requires that in each hospital seven days a week an intensiveist should be exclusively available for intensive care. The quality framework for emergency care also entails additional occupation requirements. However good these quality requirements are, it is difficult for regional hospitals to meet them. First of all, they can't find the right people. If they can do that, it's just a question of keeping their emergency care and intensive care departments open. Mr. Chairman. Without emergency aid, it will be difficult for many small regional hospitals to keep their heads above water, while we should want to ensure that for vulnerable groups, even older people, basic hospital care is available nearby. Not everyone is just able to travel further away, to another hospital. While there are often multiple hospitals in the major cities, people in the region have to continue to travel. This creates a rift that we shouldn't make bigger than it already is. How does the Minister look at the occupation requirements in the new standards and the problems this presents for small regional hospitals? Does he see opportunities to respond to the concerns of regional hospitals without any concessions to the quality of care? The regional hospitals themselves state that with the new requirements care is becoming more expensive, but certainly not necessarily better quality. Mr. Chairman. I understand that from 1 July the IGJ will monitor compliance with the IC Directive. Research carried out by the Collaborative General Hospitals shows that at present 12 out of 28 hospitals do not comply with the guidelines. Will they receive a visit from the inspection immediately? Or does the inspection provide room for other solutions, which ensure that the IC can remain open without patients being at risk? An addendum to the IC Directive is now being prepared. Can the Minister promise that, to the extent that it is within his sphere of influence, he will promote the timely submission of this addendum to the Health Institute and no irreversible steps will be taken in the meantime? I would like to make one further point in connection with this debate. Recently, we saw at Treant in Drenthe and Groningen that the planned decision to close major departments, pediatrics and obstetrics, causes concern about the future of hospitals in Hoogeveen and Stadskanaal. The IGJ pointed out that the proposed decision was not sufficiently substantiated and that interested parties should be better involved. The decision was also not welcomed by the health insurer concerned. How does the Minister explain that neither the IGJ nor the health insurer have been included in the decision-making process? Can the Minister state what the further steps are in this process? How is it ensured that all interests, including those of municipalities and residents, are taken into account? Finally. The starting point of this cabinet is good care for everyone in the right place at the right time. For the Christian Union, regional hospitals, where basic care and acute care are available, play an important role. How is the Minister going to ensure that the interests of patients who depend on these hospitals are carefully taken into account in important decisions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u23	The Christian Union rightly cites Treant and the hospitals in Hoogeveen and City Canal where obstetrics is threatened with disappearance. The fact is, the hospitals are under pressure. What is the Christian Union's position: does it not agree that clinical obstetrics, emergency services and intensive care should simply remain open there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u24	Yeah, that's what got me out of the heart. I'd really like those departments to stay open. We have seen the commotion with the hospitals themselves, but certainly also with the people in the region. At the same time, I do not want to table a motion from politics today that says that these departments should remain open, because we are still in the middle of the process. That process didn't go very carefully. The inspection has pointed this out: this is not good. The health insurance company was presented with an unpleasant surprise. The process must therefore proceed in an orderly manner. We're in the middle of that. I want to give that a chance now before we start meddling in it from a political point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u25	We've been in trials for 30 years. This has led to the disappearance or dismantling of many hospitals. Isn't it time now, as I ask the Christian Union, that politics takes control and doesn't look away? The facts are there, things are perfectly clear. There are conflicting interests that cloud the process. Should we not, as politicians here in The Hague, make a clear statement that the hospitals in Hoogeveen and Stadskanaal will remain open and say "Minister, do your job, go take care of it"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u26	In our country, we have agreed on a process that places a great deal of responsibility on the political side, but also a great deal of responsibility in the field of care. I think that's a good balance. The care field is about the quality of care. Politics is the move to ensure proximity to care. That's what we're talking about today. That's a tension field. How can you ensure that quality care is available close to the region? That's what we're talking about today. The plea of the SP Group is to give political influence even more. I remember the SP election program. As far as SP is concerned, politics, the government, the state, gets a much bigger finger in the mouth when it comes to care. In that case, the care professionals are no longer primarily involved, but decide which care is good for you. That is a route that my group does not envisage. Then the state gets a bigger finger in the porridge and we get a state-organized care. I don't want to. Today we are talking about the balance, quality of care and proximity to care. That's what we're talking about. That balance is tricky. That is what we need to debate. I really want to stay far away from state-organized care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u27	Mr Van Gerven will have the opportunity to respond to your comment on the SP if he needs to, but not to ask questions again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u28	We've got to straighten that out. The SP is ideally the party that the professionals want to give space. But that's what the government has to arrange and secure. That's the point. We want the national government, the politics here, to ensure, for example, that the Bethesda in Hoogeveen and Refaja in Stadskanaal remain fully-fledged basic hospitals, that the conditions are created for that and that we say, give the statement: those hospitals must stand up and it will be the duty of the minister to create those conditions, so that then the professionals can get to work to achieve that. But the government has to act now, otherwise things will go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u29	You explained the position of the SP. Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u30	Let's keep talking to each other about how we can guarantee quality care close to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u31	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I now give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u32	Mr. Chairman. The message that intensive care departments and emergency services should close to a large number of regional hospitals is understandable as a source of concern. I see that people are worried when the ic may disappear from their region, because it often causes other interventions and treatments to disappear from the same hospital and the emergency services to change. Especially in the case of acute complex care you want to be able to be treated properly and quickly. Mr. Chairman. People need to be able to trust that the quality of care is good everywhere in the Netherlands. This sometimes requires specialization, concentration or cooperation. In addition to quality, we also need to look at accessibility and affordability of care. This way not everyone can easily travel and the nearest people when you are in the hospital is also quality. However, the care provided must never be undersized. Regular treatment improves doctors in their profession, increasing the quality of care. For the affordability of care, even in the longer term, you want that care to be delivered as efficiently as possible. It is therefore difficult to explain that in the future, an intensivist may have to have a thumbs-up at times. Mr. Chairman. There must be a balance between good quality care for all and accessibility and affordability of care. An ic must simply comply with the directives adopted. At the same time, it must not lead to the disappearance of all ICIs from the region. People should be able to be at a reasonable distance from an ic. The health insurance companies also have a duty of care. That reasonable distance can, of course, vary by type of care. That is why I have a number of questions for the Minister. Can all insurers comply with their duty of care with the IC Directive adopted and its impact? Is directives taken into account, for example, accessibility and efficiency? How does the Healthcare Institute, if it uses its perseverance force, take that into account? And does the Minister see any possibility of taking that into account? The care professionals draw up the quality frameworks and I think that is good. Politicians aren't doctors, and we shouldn't be pretending. If the care professionals don't get out, the Healthcare Institute will determine them. How are the different parties involved: large and small healthcare providers, but also parties in densely populated and sparsely populated areas? And to what extent should the quality framework above all define what quality is? There must also be room to determine how to achieve that quality or efficiency. What possibilities does the Minister see for cooperation to meet these requirements, so that there are sufficient options? Like GroenLinks, the VVD gets signals that there are a number of issues that are getting worse, for example in funding in network care, but also for medium care. That's right, and how's that taken care of? If such messages appear, it is also good to talk to the interested parties themselves. My contacts show that the differences may not be that great and that we do not really want a difference in quality in the regions. For the ic's we have recently been looking for a solution. Particular attention will be paid to how the quality can be effectively completed. Is it true that there is a solution in the process? The VVD would also like to know what the state of play is for the emergency framework. To what extent are the parties concerned also in consultation in order to arrive at an effective solution that can also deliver good quality and care? If that is not the case, is the Minister prepared to organise that conversation? Mr. Chairman. Finally. In Drenthe there is a slightly different problem, namely a shortage of pediatricians. But there are similar consequences, which also give concern to residents. That is why I have a number of questions about this. Does Treant's proposed decision still comply with the agreed standards and insurers comply with their duty of care? What did Treant do himself to attract new pediatricians? And what are the possibilities for cooperation with other hospitals? What solution does the national programme offer to combat labour shortages in this case? How can we also work in the region to recruit doctors, such as in Friesland, where there is a shortage of general practitioners? And what is going to happen in the region now? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u33	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Over the past year and a half I have been able to assist my parents almost ten times in the emergency and intensive care departments of several hospitals. Many thanks I owe to all those doctors and nurses who do their work with passion, commitment and skill. And they're incredibly busy. They're flying from room to room. I'm worried it's too much. I have also experienced the importance of intensive care and emergency services in local hospitals. A patient comes in, the situation is serious, for example there is a imbalance in the medications, there is an emergency withdrawal, but a few days later the patient goes home. This is very common. And I really wonder: if those emergency rooms and those intensive care units in that area are rated or closed down, are those large hospitals waiting for this? I don't think so. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the directive. We all want quality. Medical developments go fast, and especially in departments like intensive care and emergency services we also see more and more special and complicated equipment appear. We have therefore been advocating for years the presence of sufficient doctors and qualified staff in emergency and intensive care. We find it unacceptable that, for cost reasons, hospitals should be allowed to provide inexperienced and trained doctors in these crucial places. They are the stars of the future and gain tremendous experience, but they must not become overloaded. Let us not forget that someone who is admitted to a Dutch hospital as a matter of urgency on the weekend still has a higher risk of death than someone who is admitted on Monday. The requirement in the new directive that, from 1 July onwards, an intensive care professional should be present exclusively for seven days a week, seems to be a good decision. At the same time, this concept of 'exclusive' is the cause of unrest. In fact, I do not think that anyone is opposed to this quality standard or is opposed to the fact that an intensivist is available seven days a week in each hospital and should be available exclusively for intensive care. However, Gupta consultancy inventoryed that 12 out of 28 hospitals could not sustain this. In addition, 22 out of 28 hospitals will not be able to sustain the new emergency services directive. These are local hospitals in particular. They point out the high cost of excluding the reservation of an intensive care doctor and an intensive physician, who is no longer allowed to add to the emergency services. There is a fear that these hospitals are going to fall down, and no one wants that either. This is a huge split for the Minister. Emergency aid units and intensive care units must not be lost. You shouldn't mess with quality either. The question is, what is the Minister going to do? In this respect, I do not think that the Minister's letter is sufficient. He writes: it is not up to a minister to define quality standards of substance. But he also writes: "Relationship here is that, as you know, with a view to affordability at macro level, a bill is being worked on that will enable the Minister of Health or the Minister for Health to intervene if a new quality standard directive jeopardises the macro-payability of care." So in other words, he says the following. The quality? No, that's what the field is about. But what if it costs too much? Well, you can't. I think that's the wrong signal. I believe that the Minister should take both quality and affordability into account. But also the accessibility, which the Minister has not for nothing mentioned as one of the three pillars of care. The Minister must stand firm in the hope that regional intensive care and emergency services will remain open. That is also what I want to hear from the Minister here today. I want a clasp-and-ready answer. Don't look away and it's not up to the Minister to set quality standards of substance. No, he has to say this. One. The quality must be high. Two. Emergency services and intensive care remain open. Finally, a brief question, Mr President. I read that from 1 July onwards the inspection will be maintained, but I also read in the Minister's letter that the budget impact analysis will not be completed until the end of 2018. I think that's weird. So I ask the Minister if the inspection can be maintained after the budget impact analysis is in, because we still need to be able to make an assessment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u35	Thank you, Mrs Agema. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u36	Thank you, Mr President. 45 minutes driving time for acute care. 45 minutes for acute care. We still call that acceptable in a small country like the Netherlands. Care is being cut down and regional hospitals are being cut down. The downward spiral that former Minister Schippers has deployed makes Minister Bruins turn into a free fall. The fact that regional hospitals are now finding it more than difficult to cope with the new occupation standard, namely the permanent presence of specialists in intensive care who are not allowed to assist in emergency care costs regional hospitals many millions. Minister Bruins knew a long time ago that this would be the result of his far-reaching austerity blow. Regional hospitals were already struggling with major shortages of specialists. That makes sense, because who wouldn't want to leave a sinking ship early? And there's something special going on. Specialists are only becoming more specialized. These specialists are then also considered to be available full-time, while they often have to operate if they are to continue to provide high-quality care. I read somewhere the somewhat cynical but understandable statement of a surgeon: "Only twice a year doing a particular type of surgery is, as it were, premeditated murder." Let the Minister do it all, or what exactly is he going to do about it? Care must be of high quality and accessible to all those who need it. We are on the road in this country to a situation where care is distorted and accessibility is limited to a handful of mega-hospitals. That is not enough, and it should not be necessary. How does the Minister intend to keep everyone's care in the Netherlands accessible? How many people now live in a location where urgent and acute care has become unreachable? How many people are that gonna be in the next few years? What does the Minister think of this supposedly acceptable 45 minutes driving time for acute care? This is a minister who pays attention to the numbers, we have noticed. What figures is the Minister interested in exactly? That bookkeeping mentality, that tireless beans count against better judgment, what good is it when it comes to human lives? Soon hospitals will only consist of managers, sub-managers and sub-sub-managers. Hypermodern regional hospitals and delivery rooms are not closed yet or the acquisition consultant is already with a large bag of money on his way to the next regional destruction, with a lot of extra work for lawyers, accountants, all kinds of consultants and service providers. Now that's a waste of money. The human size is completely lost. It creates mammoth hospitals with more than 1,000 beds each. Is the Minister really happy with that? International studies show that the optimal size of hospitals is between 200 and 300 beds. Research carried out by TU Delft in 2011 so seven years ago showed that hospitals become less efficient as they are larger and have to deal with negative scale effects. Will the Minister reflect on this in the light of the insatiable desire for fusion? How is it possible that the Dutch Competition Authority does make it a problem if hospitals work together, but doesn't make it difficult in the case of mergers? So much for the regulated competition in the Dutch healthcare system. Mr. Chairman. Is the minister familiar with the term "bermbaby"? Without madness, I hope my baby doesn't get birthplace "A12, hectometer pole so much" in November. Because also in Woerden, the newly equipped delivery room has disappeared, just like the regional hospital. This is a common problem. Women lose freedom of choice to give birth at home, and birth care is thus unnecessarily medicalised and more expensive, because how many women without medical indication will now choose a reserved place in a remote hospital because of the real fear that they will not reach the hospital in time if something goes wrong? Regional hospitals fear an increase in the number of bembabys due to massive closure of delivery rooms. What's the Minister gonna do about it? Finally, Mr President. What would the Minister say if every Minister of Health or Medical Care took the medical oath of Hippocrates and committed himself, among other things, to the next vow...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u37	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u38	Yes, my very last sentence. I quote: "In my best judgment and ability, and for the good of my sick, I will prescribe a rule of life for them and never harm anyone." Because the minister is responsible for the care in the Netherlands in all its facets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u39	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. I thought I would now give the floor to the only man in this company, but Mr Van der Staaij is still here. I call Mr Kerstens on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u40	Thank you, Mr President. A while ago, I wasn't back in the Lower House yet, I heard the minister on the radio about the subject we're discussing today. He tried to remove the unrest that had arisen that, in simple terms, emergency services and ic in a large number of regional hospitals are in danger of disappearing, with all the resulting effects. He did that by saying that it was simply about arrangements that the field itself had made... a little "what are we talking about" so... and that the soup would not be eaten as hot as it was served because there were practical solutions. The fact that it has not really been the field, including, for example, the local hospitals, that they have made agreements on which there is so much commotion, is now clear to me. The position of those hospitals has been pushed aside. Now saying that they are of course a bit grumpy about that, does not do justice to their arguments. I believe that these arguments deserve to be taken seriously, that our local hospitals deserve to be taken seriously, as do the people who work there and the people who live in the region. I have not yet heard the practical solutions coming from the Minister's mouth. However, I read in the letter he sent us yesterday that there is now going to be an investigation into the availability of medical specialists. That is not insignificant if it turns out that it is unclear whether there are enough of them or not. The study should then show whether there are regional problems and, if so, why. Answers to these questions are important for possible solutions, writes the Minister. That's pretty crazy, isn't it, the upside-down world? First you create a problem and then you think about solutions. You'd think that could be more convenient. The Labour Party does not, of course, consider that the quality of care provided should be affected. It's literally vital sometimes. But I think it should be possible to maintain that quality without going down a path that leads to an ever-increasing undressing of hospitals in the area and without going down a path that destroys the important role of local hospitals in many solutions to improve care close to people and with other players in the care field even further if we do not look out. For this it is necessary to give space to professionalism in the field, to professionals in the field, and to tailor-made solutions. Each and every one of the things that the Minister himself is always giving up. That requires that, as it is called, control space be given. Area which does justice to the quality required, but which also gives substance to the practical possibilities available to shape that quality in a different way. Space to make that customization take place. I would like to hear from the Minister today that he also wants to give this space, that he takes seriously the comments made by, for example, regional hospitals, that he consults with them and that he at least gives serious reasons why he should not see anything in it if that is the case. I would like to tell him that it is not enough for me to leave it with the answer 'that's what the field is about'. If only because the regional hospitals also address other issues, matters for which he is responsible as minister, matters that you must find something about and which, if we are not careful, endanger the design of those integrated regional networks, or even the survival of those hospitals themselves, which we all consider important. It does not seem to me that the Minister wants to go down in history if the man who put the noose around the neck of the regional hospitals with such an important function even tighter, even though he could have simply assumed his responsibility for finding a solution, a solution that offers a future for our local hospitals. It is important that, wherever you live in the Netherlands, you have a good hospital nearby where good care is provided. I therefore agree with those who say here today that decisions affecting hospitals should also take into account the important role played by such a hospital in the attractiveness and viability of a region.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u41	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Pia Dijkstra on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u42	Thank you, Mr President. When I hear what has been said here today, I think: it is mainly about balance. To close the balance between the availability and accessibility of care and the quality of care. What are the consequences of concentration and distribution, for the city and for the region? Of course, full-scale hospitals in the regions are needed. We're gonna need a regional hospital. But how many are needed, and who decides? And that is my first question to the Minister. For he says that these are the health insurance companies: they have the duty of care and they make the appointments with the hospitals. But I'd like to know how he sees his own role as a system manager. At the moment we are mainly talking about emergency care and intensive care. Close by can be vital. But quality, too. It's that balance again. In the position paper we received from the Collaborative General Hospitals, a number of bottlenecks are addressed. They have already been mentioned by others. The exclusive presence of an intensivist on the ic, during the day and at the weekend, and the exclusive availability in the evening and the night are not realistic according to them. But the quality framework of emergency care, in concept ready, also requires that an emergency physician is present 24 hours a day who has two years of clinical experience, one of which is a gate specialist. The hospitals fear that this will lead to the loss of ERs and ICIs within regional hospitals, with all the consequences. It has already been mentioned by others. General hospitals note that the quality is now in order. That is, of course, the hard part, because the Association of Emergency Doctors says that this good quality, the good and optimal care, is not guaranteed at the moment. Now, in yesterday's letter, the Minister states that arguing deviations from quality standards is legitimate as long as the conditions for good and safe care are met. Can the Minister indicate whether that is anything other than the concern that is already being delivered? And what does that remark mean for the hospitals concerned? With me there is always a question about the quality standard. I totally agree with the way that happened. That's how we arranged it: the Healthcare Institute has perseverance. But if there's so much resistance and one doesn't get out of it at all, if the hospitals can't meet it and it's not enforceable, then that leads to a situation where you have to ask yourself what such a standard is. I would like to hear more from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. If I do not stick to my text on paper, then my time is up so quickly, so I will quickly see what I want to discuss. The labour market issue. On the one hand, the hospitals say that we do not have enough staff to comply with the ICI Directive. On the other hand, the Dutch Association for Intensive Care says: they are there, there are plenty of intensiveists. The question is of course: are they also in the places where they need them? I'd like a response from the Minister. Is there sufficient inflow into the training? How can a good distribution be made? I would also like to hear the Minister say that the closure of these emergency services and medical services also has an impact on the training capacity of the various training courses. Mr. Chairman. Then with regard to the situation in Drenthe. Treant has decided to concentrate obstetrics and pediatrics in Emmen. There's a lot of resistance to that. I also understand very well that there is resistance, because of course it means a great change. But a few years ago, we talked about Meppel here. We also talked about the Sionsberg in Drachten. All this has been done and in the end the concentration of care to other hospitals has continued. I was wondering, do we know anything about the consequences? Are they indeed as they were predicted? Again, of course, there are pictures of how bad it is if you can no longer go to the hospitals in question. Mr President, I see, I have to close. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u43	Thank you, Mrs Dijkstra. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u44	Madam President. It has already come out very clearly today that care sometimes involves different values competing for priority. We all attach importance to quality care, quality and affordable care, but also to easily accessible and accessible care. In the ideal situation, these values are in balance, but it also happens that they rub together and collide. This is also the issue today, where the new quality requirements for emergency care and intensive care seem to put pressure on the accessibility of hospital care in the region. Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear: in the view of the SGP, it is often not very desirable or even desirable for people to continue to travel for high-quality care. I am thinking of the treatment of many cancers, where survival and the quality of treatment are greatly increased if offered in a specialised hospital. That doesn't mean that you can always say that the accessibility doesn't matter much if the quality goes up a bit. No, today we are talking about whether the requirements imposed on the local hospitals do not pose major problems. The reasons have already been mentioned. It is about the availability of staff and about whether it is the most sensible interpretation of intensive care. The full application of established quality directives could mean that the entire financial base for hospitals would be at risk if those departments were to be closed down in regional hospitals. That is extremely undesirable. As the Minister describes it now, it seems that it is more or less an autonomous process which, in fact, you cannot oppose from a political point of view. The field or committee of wise men draws up quality standards, the inspection will review them and health insurers will no longer buy care if it does not meet the quality requirements. If that means that small hospitals in the region will have to close their doors, so be it. That seems to be the way it is now, and we would regret that. What you're actually missing is that there's going to be a more sophisticated weighing. Suppose this is now a very limited quality gain with a dramatic decline in accessibility at the same time. Is that what we should want? Interestingly, the discussion we had recently with the Minister on finance is. If quality is determined in such a way that it has a huge impact on affordability, shouldn't there be some sort of weighting? My question to the Minister is whether this could and should not be done in the same way in terms of accessibility, namely that the legislative proposal before us also looks at whether full implementation of the quality requirements does not lead to a huge loss in accessibility and accessibility. Shouldn't you be able to intervene as well? That is the question I would like to put to the Minister. In the short term, an important question is whether these regional hospitals have a point when they say they cannot attract sufficient intensiveists and emergency doctors. The Minister has announced an investigation to find out. Can I assume that as long as this investigation is ongoing and it is not yet clear, no irreversible steps will be taken? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u45	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-13-tweedekamer-5.u46	I'm suspending the meeting until 1:50 p.m. Then we shall begin with the swearing-in of a new colleague, Mr Renkema. After that, the work will be arranged, and then we will continue with this debate.
