ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u1	The next item is the report (Doc. I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security. I give the floor to Mr Van Oosten on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u2	Thank you, Mr President. We had a general discussion on criminal law a few weeks ago. I believe that this was a good general consultation, but there are two themes that I have raised the feeling of 'gosh, they should have a little more attention than they were given in general consultation'. That is why I intend to table two motions. The first motion seeks to prevent cases from being prosecuted purely for their old age. The second issue concerns the so-called 'clip-on-piece policy' under super-fast law. I'll read the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the report on the Probable Resistance of the Attorney General before the Supreme Court states that many cases are dismissed on grounds of old age;]] [[noting that the old age of the case may also have an effect on the penalty measurement;]] [[points out that it is extremely undesirable for perpetrators to avoid their punishment or to be punished less severely;]] [[calls on the Government to take action in such a way as to prevent dismissal or reduction of penalties purely because of the old age of the case by leading to the timely continuation of criminal proceedings;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Court of Justice of the steps taken in this context by the end of this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Oosten, Groothuizen and Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-409]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u3	I shall conclude, Mr President, with the second and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that super-fast justice is a good tool for bringing to justice snatched criminals as quickly as possible;]] [[Whereas a rapid trial and possible conviction - contributes to making neighborhoods safer by preventing the criminal from continuing his crimes;]] [[Whereas vigorous lick-on-piece policy can contribute to legal confidence;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the use of super-fast law is a standard part of law enforcement in all arrondissementsparkets and to take measures to that end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Oosten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-410]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u4	I understand Mr Van Oosten's appeal in such a way that he says: where it can be done quickly, we must do so above all. I totally agree with him. Should I understand him in such a way that he says: I want this to be a part of the matters that lend themselves to it, in full width, so that the evidence is complete, the victim is placed in position and everything is ready? It is therefore not the case that this is going to be an endeavor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u5	No, but take the example I suggested in the general consultation. When a neighborhood has created a whatsapp group to keep the neighborhood safe in the context of prevention, one sees with one another that things go wrong and one understands, for example, a burglar in the act, then I wonder what legal issues might still exist. I would like to see such a case brought to justice very quickly, so that the neighborhood can also see that something like this does not go unpunished.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u6	Agreed. Wherever we can, we should do it. In my opinion, the problem often lies with the victim, for example, because a claim is not yet an injured party or a psychological report needs to be drawn up. If Mr Van Oosten says that he will take that into account, I can follow him in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u7	It's his own.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u8	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u9	Thank you. My colleague from the VVD has just tabled a motion aimed at preventing the imposition of penalty reductions in the case of long lead times. That motion has our sympathy. I had prepared a similar motion, which was very similar and therefore I do not have to submit it. However, the SP believes that when looking at the causes of long lead times, the capacity in the criminal justice chain should be explicitly considered. That's not in the motion. If the Minister is going to make a comment on the motion, my question is whether the capacity is also being looked at. Because, in my view, the capacity in the criminal justice chain is indeed a very big problem. In fact, it is well known that there are shortages in the police. See, for example, the detective's cry for help. That's not just an insight from the detectives themselves or from the SP. It also lives with municipalities, police officers, the police summit and the Public Prosecutor's Office. But we are also pleased to hear the CDA leader, whom we heard on television in Buitenhof, say good things about it, namely that the CDA also now believes that extra money should be provided for security. On top of the softening of the cuts contained in the coalition agreement, there is now also additional money to spring note. But since we take decisions in the Chamber and not on television, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that attention has been paid by police, justice and municipalities to the importance of extra capacity in the police;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a proposal to allocate additional money for security in the Spring Note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-411]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u10	And I am, of course, counting on the warm support of all parties who also think it is important to invest extra in security, the CDA, of course, first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u11	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During the general consultation held on 8 February last, the issue of life imprisonment was discussed among other things. The PVV believes that the government should not dance to the tune of the ECHR. Why not? Because lifelong punishments are by definition the most brutal and dangerous killers, who should have no prospect of release at all. That's why I'd like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that all life-long punished persons may be eligible for reintegration activities, including leave, 25 years after the start of detention;]] [[Whereas life-long punishments are the most dangerous criminals that society should be protected from as much as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that lifelong punishments can never be released and therefore never be on leave,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-412]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u13	Then I have a second motion, which I would like to table. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the protection of society is paramount and therefore cannot be relied on by convicted criminals who come forward for the punishment imposed on them;]] [[believes that suspects should be required to appear in court to answer to society;]] [[Calls on the Government to include an appearance in the Code of Criminal Procedure for suspects of violence and sexual offences;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, if the judge imposes an unconditional custodial sentence, that sentence is immediately enforced, so that those convicted can be transferred to prison immediately after a court ruling for the purpose of the sentence imposed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-413]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u14	I have a question about that motion. Does this mean that someone has to appear, even if the victim does not ask for it or does not even consider it desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u15	I think that's a very good question. I think I have had an exchange of views with you on this in an earlier debate, if I remember correctly. My motion does not take care of this nuance, but I can give it to the Minister orally during this debate that should this motion be adopted, the Minister who could build nuance at the request of the victim. We are talking about violence and sexual crimes. But there's no nuance in this operative part. I don't want to change the motion now, but I'm going with you that if a victim doesn't need it, we shouldn't push it through. If the motion is adopted, I hope with your support, then the Minister can make that nuance, then that can still be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u16	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Van Toorenburg, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u17	Mr. Chairman. There's always a lot going on after an AO, like today. We have had the AO, we have shared interesting things and we received a petition this morning from the Judicial Institutions and the FNV about real crime figures, the prison system figures, the WODC figures, the prognosis figures. It is a rather thorough piece that makes me think: we can table all kinds of motions... I have also signed one, all fine.... but the fundamental question is what we are actually doing with regard to the criminal justice chain, the detection and the prosecution. How do we ensure that people who have committed a crime are ultimately brought to justice? That is why this petition is almost almost a very important one. Mr Van Nispen and I have been fighting for this for many years. I wasn't actually gonna give up that fight today. I would like to pass this petition on to the Cabinet and ask the Minister for a very thorough response. I know that this cannot be done now, because he will have to discuss it with his colleague at the Justice Department. 'Cause I think it's a lot, you know, what's in here. I say this today, too, because I know that all DJI works councils have signed up to this. Except for the works council of the head office, because they weren't allowed to. That's weird, Mr. Chairman. We normally deal with petitions of this kind in the procedural meeting, but I would like to give a specific explanation today. I am doing this on behalf of Mr Van Nispen. May I hand this over to the minister, to your chairman, with the request to the cabinet to really give a comprehensive response to this and to take all the points of view into account? I would also like an analysis on the assumption that we will eventually have empty prisons, but that crime will not fall. The willingness to report is falling, but not the crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u18	Thank you. Mr Van Nispen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u19	I would just like to stress that it is a very justified point by Mr van Toorenburg of the CDA. Indeed, almost all works councils were united there with a firm call for an investigation into reality, into real crime. So we need to look not only at the people who report it, but at the real crime. I wholeheartedly support that call. And congratulations for that. I'll ask you a short question. We have heard the chairman of the CDA at Buitenhof say that we need extra money for security, regardless of this important research that is yet to appear. Surely I can assume that the CDA will support the motion of the SP and the Labour Party to do exactly what Mr Buma said?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u20	I will not support the motion. It's all about getting money in the end. That's what we do with the spring note. That's the way we're gonna do it. We're in a coalition. With all due respect, I think we can do more in the coalition than with a motion from the opposition. So I'm not going down that road. We continue to fight, but not with a motion from the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u21	Finally, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u22	I had hoped that good proposals could be supported, and that it does not matter very much whether you are in the opposition or in the coalition. It is a motion that says exactly what Mr Buma said, namely to make extra money available for security in the spring note. That is exactly what the chairman of the CDA group said. We make decisions in the Chamber, not on television. So what does the CDA, and by the way all the other coalition parties and opposition parties, really everyone who thinks there should be extra money for security, as Mr Buma also said at Buitenhof, just to support this motion, when it is put to the vote next Tuesday?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u23	Mr Van Nispen knows very well how things are in politics. A motion is a request to the Chamber to rule on something. It's kind of weird, actually, as an opposition party, after hearing a coalition party say she's gonna take care of something, make a point of making a move and then ask the coalition to support it. I understand the indignation, but I think Mr Van Nispen understands very well what I am saying. We're just gonna make sure there's money. That's the assignment. That is also the need. I really don't need a motion from the opposition for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u24	I was just pleased to be surprised by Mr Van Nispen's motion. He did not mention Mr Buma at all; we had that little debate earlier on in the order of business. He's now trying to cash in an opportunity by pulling up here together to get more money out. Surely it cannot be that just because the motion from the SP comes, you do not support its content? That would be weird, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u25	Oh, Mr. Chairman, what a wonderful game politics is. We simply do not need a motion for a resolution. It is completely superfluous, because it calls on the Chamber to do something that we are simply going to do. We can talk about a motion from the SP for a long time, but that's just not the instrument you can do things with. The joke is that GroenLinks has dropped out of the coalition negotiations, when she could have done this kind of thing. The SP didn't want to participate. We're in the coalition. We're gonna try to make a difference. I don't need a motion from the opposition for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u26	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u27	I think this is a bad thing. You say that you are not going to try to achieve the best majorities in the Chamber at all. I understand that you're talking to each other within the coalition, but you're actually saying, "You can't join us, SP. You can't join us, GroenLinks. We cover it up, we tell you and we're not going to deviate an inch from it either." You say that you are not going to try to have a substantive debate on a motion at all. "We don't need you with that at all," you also say to the opposition, "we all love to fool ourselves in the back rooms." To be honest, I think that's an affront.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u28	Then Mrs Buitenweg does not know how things are going with the Spring Paper, because that too is just a debate we are going to have with each other. So that's what we're gonna do later. Right now, we don't need a motion for that. We know our moments when we deal with things like this. I think it is good that everyone has heard our group chairman correctly. That's the tour we'll make. We want to ensure that extra money is added to the Spring Note to do this kind of important business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u29	Thank you. Then I'll see if the Minister needs a brief suspension or if he can answer directly. You can answer directly? That's nice. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u30	If you will allow me, Madam President, I would like to reply immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u31	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u32	The last will be the first, I'd almost like to say. I would like to begin with the point made by Mrs Van Toorenburg. Let me begin by saying that, on behalf of my colleague in the Legal Affairs Committee, I agree that we will come forward with a response to the issue, the petition, around the summer recess. This also involves making a number of assumptions about investigations that have been carried out in that piece. You know that we have just set up independent committees of inquiry to test those investigations, so that way. Having said that, I would like to touch on another point mentioned by Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Van Oosten. I think that in February we took constructively a large number of criminal matters into our heads. The starting point of the cabinet, at least that of the rulers of justice, is to deal with criminal matters in a systematic but vigorous manner in the near future. That is a bit of the bottom I want to put under the reaction to the motions that have been tabled. I shall begin with Mr Van Oosten's motion on item No. 409 on the lead times. I suggest that a longer lead time can sometimes not be avoided, because there is a need for further investigation into a suspect or into circumstances in a complex case. Moreover, Mr van Oosten has not always suggested this longer lead time, but it is sometimes done here and there from the detection or prosecution apparatus. Often the lead time is longer because, for example, the defense needs more time. Mr Van Oosten rightly pointed out that the PG at the Supreme Court concluded that the reasonable time limit was exceeded more frequently than occasionally in fairly simple cases. The College of Attorney General and I consider that very undesirable. In the policy response, I have made it clear that this finding is absolutely necessary to look further at further improvements. By the way, I also said at the time: the public prosecutor has already started an improvement programme on lead times. For example, the quality of the debt determination and its reproducibility have improved, so that a case does not need to be fully re-assessed after opposition. I have undertaken to inform your Chamber in the first half of this year of the progress and results of these measures, which were thus already there. Then we're really getting on with that. In the AO we also discussed the fundamental question of whether matters should be dismissed solely because of the age of the fact committed. There is this unwritten principle of law that criminal matters are dealt with as a matter of urgency...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u33	And the verdict is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u34	There's something I want to say. The principle of opportunity simply indicates that you have to consider that lead time. If the motion is intended as a call to further reduce the lead times, so that the dismissal is prevented as much as possible only because of the age of a case, then I leave the judgment to the Chamber. President. - I call Mr Van Oosten to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 410 tabled a motion on the use of superfast law. I would like to say a few words about this. From Mr van Oosten's reply to the interruption, I understand that he is trying to ensure that everywhere and more kinds of matters should be dealt with very quickly. Then he's not referring to the state's attorney's office that's now in the standard law enforcement repertoire of the state's attorney's office. If it is indeed the intention that more types of cases should be brought to justice very quickly throughout the country, then I would ask Mr Van Oosten to hold the motion, because Mr Dekker and I have already promised that we will send an evaluation to the Chamber on the pilots with rapid judicial intervention and rapid law by the Public Prosecutor. In doing so, we will also inform the Chamber about the further approach. That's gonna be in juno this year. If I understand the motion correctly, I would suggest it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u35	Then I'd like to hold the motion. I do, however, ask for the evaluation to include specifically the call that I put forward in the operative part, because that is what I am talking about: that super-fast law should be taken into account by default and offered in law enforcement by the various courts. It should be part of the package by default.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u36	Yeah, I got it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u37	At the request of Mr Van Oosten, I propose his motion (29279, No. 410). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u38	Then there's a motion to part No. 411 by Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Kuiken with the request for extra money for security. I am already planning on the basis of the coalition agreement: 267 million extra. Only on the basis of the Spring paper will we discuss whether or not there is sufficient capacity. In that context, I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u39	The Minister says that we are going to have this discussion with the Spring Note, but this motion calls on the government to make additional money for security with the Spring Note, as Mr Buma at Buitenhof said. Then it is a strange reaction to say: we are only then going to have that discussion. We ask the Chamber to give a ruling now and send the government with an order to pay extra money with the Spring Note. That's how it works with budgets. And then we can indeed have the discussion as to whether it is enough for the government to come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u40	Mr Van Nispen is aware of the extra money that has now been made structurally available. He also knows that I am trying to allocate that money in terms of capacity in the coming period. That's step one that has to be done. As a step two, we will have to talk about the Spring Paper with each other about whether there should perhaps be more capacity in that Spring Note. I'm gonna keep dissuading that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u41	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u42	Well, chairman, it's either one or the other. Either the Minister says: I am dissuading the motion and so I am not actually going to do what Buma promised at Buitenhof. Then that was a blank cartridge, which the Minister says I don't need, because we're keeping it as it is and there's no extra money in the Spring note. Whether we are having the discussion and the House says in a majority: we do want extra money in the Spring Safety Note. It's not: the motion dissuade and we'll all see. No, we're asking the Chamber for a ruling right now. The Minister can advise that he does not need the motion, but then he says: I am not going to do it, because I will leave it as it is and that 267 million extra, which, by the way, is opposed to a lot of cuts from the previous period and is therefore almost gone, is enough, so I am not going to do what Buma said at Buitenhof. That's what the Minister can say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u43	Madam President, I am sorry, but I would like to remind Mr Van Nispen that the 267 million have been linked by me to units of FTE on several occasions. I have already said 460, because I have already released 100 million unconditionally in any case. In addition, it is not a blank, on the contrary, you also heard me say two weeks ago that I understand the concerns that have been expressed about detective capacity and that we are actually watching this with each other. So these concerns are certainly justified, but the question is whether we should follow up on a motion that you tabled in order to use additional money for security on top of the 267 million. We will now proceed with the deployment of that additional capacity in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u44	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u45	Then I had the Markuszower motion in part No. 413...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u46	Item No. 412.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u47	412, excuse, from Mr Markuszower. He doesn't want to let people get out of prison for life. The policy that has been put in place is precisely what is needed in order to maintain the life sentence. Of course, someone is not being released, certainly not someone who has been punished for life. But there must also be a possibility, under international treaty rules and human rights, for life sentences to be released after a very long period of time, on the basis of all very strict conditions and supervision. I'm dissuading the motion. I shall now turn to Mr Markuszower's second motion, which concerns item No. 413 on the mandatory appearance. I would like to point out that my colleague for legal protection has already promised to come forward with a proposal this summer. I therefore advise against the motion in this respect, because that is already coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u48	I believe that the Minister's colleague came up with an obligation to appear for prisoners who are already in prison and then have to go to court. This motion sees more as suspects who are not yet in prison, but simply walking around freely in the Netherlands for example and then simply not appearing in court.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u49	I repeat what I said earlier. Mr Dekker, whose policy area this belongs to, comes up with a legislative proposal on this part, and it seems to me that it is quite a duplication of effort to look at this in another way. I therefore advise against the motion in question. I thought I'd gone over all the motions with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-06-tweedekamer-31.u51	This brings us to the end of this VAO. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
