ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on the letter from the Minister for Justice and Security of 23 February 2018, in which he states that the Cabinet intends to announce to the Council and the European Commission that the Netherlands will participate in the enhanced cooperation on the European Public Prosecutor's Office (Room 33709, AE). In accordance with a commitment from his predecessor to this Chamber, made on 6 December 2016, the government will involve the final judgment of both Chambers of the States-General in its final position on whether or not the Netherlands participate in an EOM. Today's debate serves to share with the Minister the opinion of the Chamber. I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. According to the theory of neurolinguistic programming, it would be impossible for the human brain to record the word "not." When someone says 'don't think of the Brussels elite', one doesn't consciously think of the Brussels elite. That's how it works for the Rutte cabinet. If Parliament has clearly stated that it is not joining the European Public Prosecutor's Office, it is only thinking of joining the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The word "not" is not heard. Little by little, the Netherlands is sucked into the eurocratic trap of the EOM. Although our national parliament repeatedly spoke out against the EPPO and even drew a yellow card with a subsidiarity objection, the government continued to look for an opening to be involved in the EPPO. To say 'no' to the EU and to continue to do so consistently is not an option for the Rutte cabinet, but to turn a blind eye to its own people by suddenly opting for the EOM in the cabinet negotiations is all the more so. Government party VVD dares even to put on its website to be critical of the EOM. I quote: "We do not accept it if our own Public Prosecutor's Office is excluded." If the VVD is genuine in this respect, it should not approve this proposal today either. After all, our state's attorney's office is being sidelined. Because if, from the point of view of opportunity, it decides not to prosecute, the EPPO may decide to withdraw and prosecute the case, which is out of the question for our national prosecutor. Therefore, don't fall for this extravagance and finally give the EOM the red card. In addition, the question to the Minister. The coalition agreement states that the cabinet will decide when the Netherlands will join. Can't that moment ever be? Furthermore, the coalition agreement lays down the condition that it does not prejudice the principle of opportunity. According to the Minister, is that condition fulfilled? Mr. Chairman. In recent years, many debates have been held on the EPPO, in which the PVV has consistently pointed out the disadvantages and risks of the EPPO in both the Second and First Chambers. Without repeating all this in detail, it remains at the forefront of the fact that the EPPO is a violation of our national sovereignty, of our own jurisdiction by the EU. For the PVV, this is and remains totally undesirable and unacceptable. In order to achieve the objective pursued by the EPPO, cross-border fraud approaches may also involve direct cooperation between countries concerned. There is no need for Eurobureaucratics. More important is to tackle the problem at the root. For decades, the EU's large-scale redistribution mechanism has been a permanent source of fraud folklore with its urge to redistribute our tax money into countless subsidy jars, giving too easy an opportunity to fraud. The EU already has the opportunity to impose financial corrections on Member States if they fail to recover fraudulent subsidy money. Instead, the European Commission is maintaining its pivotal system and an EPPO should enhance the image of the EU, an image which the Commission itself has too gibberished. The current Juncker Commission with dubious appointments is not a role model for integrity governance after the Commission-Santer, which has resigned because of corruption. Should the authority for the establishment of an EPPO be entrusted with this? Mr. Chairman. According to the European Commission, the operational rules for the appointment procedure for the Chief Prosecutor and the European Prosecutors have not yet been completed. Without these rules, it is completely unclear how this extension of the Brussels bureaucracy, the long arm of Juncker, will invade our jurisdiction. How can the Minister now express his wish for membership? Many other essential issues remain unclear, such as the impact analysis on the Public Prosecutor and the FIOD. What is the EOM going to mean for the capacity allocation within the Office for the EOM tasks? To what extent can this be at the expense of our national OM tasks? The cabinet speaks in the letter about practical consequences, but it is unclear how big they will be, as well as the real financial implications. Then why run so far ahead of the band anyway? Let me now turn to the question of the possible extension of the mandate. Juncker announced in his so-called State of the Union that he would extend the mandate of the EPPO to combat terrorism, which would take place in 2025. This seems to be decisive, but it can be counterproductive by harmonising, a possible limitation of national powers to tackle terrorism. Moreover, there is not much to expect from the EU when it comes to tackling Islamic terrorism, quite the contrary. In his letter, the Minister states that an extension of the mandate is not a matter for discussion, that the cabinet is not convinced of the operational need and that the EPPO should now be properly organised to deal with EU fraud cases. But as has been shown, the word 'not' is very easy for the Rutte cabinet. Can the Minister exclude that at a later date the Netherlands still agrees to an extension of the mandate? Can the Minister rule out the fact that this cabinet will later be convinced of an operational necessity or still agree when the EPPO is well-designed? Can the Minister also rule out the possibility of an extension to any other areas than the fight against fraud and the fight against terrorism? Mr. Chairman. The Regulation for the EPPO would not provide for the later departure of a participating Member State. Can the Minister state if this is true? Should the Netherlands approve participation in the EPPO, is there indeed no formal direct exit option? Furthermore, it is very worrying that according to the Minister's letter some important laws need to be amended, such as the Law on the Judicial Organisation and the Code of Criminal Procedure. How can the Minister already agree with the EPPO when it is not yet clear what the consequences will be for our legislation? Can the Minister indicate to what extent there is still a way back and in what specific way, if a majority of the parliament still wishes to abandon the establishment of the EOM? Mr. Chairman. The risk of a sliding scale is very high at the EOM. The EU will seek more and more areas where it will seek jurisdiction at the expense of the sovereign Member States, while the Netherlands owes its sovereignty to its opposition to a Brussels criminal court. The disgust against the Council of Strokes of the Duke of Alva contributed to the Dutch rebellion, the Eighty Years' War, which brought us independence. That example must be borne in mind, even now, that we should not tolerate Brussels interference by great Inquisitor Juncker in our country, but rather seek a new one. A strong no to the EOM is therefore the only correct answer as far as PVV is concerned. In order to strengthen that no, I shall therefore table a motion. Mr President, as far as first time is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u4	So you're filing your motion in the first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u5	Yes. The President shall: Members Van Hattem, Faber-van de Klashorst, Dercksen, Van Strien, Kok, Peter van Dijk, Van der Sluijs and Ton van Kesteren propose the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet intends to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office (EOM);]] [[calls on the government to refrain from participating in the European Public Prosecutor's Office,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33709-AF]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. I speak on behalf of the SP and the Party for the Animals. As is well known, the SP and the Animal Party strongly support effective and effective cooperation between the EU Member States in combating and preventing fraud, but the SP also believes that this cooperation does not make it necessary to establish a European Public Prosecutor's Office and that it has not been demonstrated that the European Public Prosecutor's Office is capable of combating fraud where the national authorities seem unable to do so. In our view, fraud of an international nature, which is used as an argument for the creation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, is without effectively combating the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Where, according to the EU, the detection and prosecution of EU grant fraud is inadequate, this is caused by the failure of the judiciary in several EU countries. The EU could therefore be expected to focus its energy on bringing justice to these failing countries, but we do not believe that this is enough or sufficient. Can the Minister indicate what efforts the EU has made to keep these failing countries on track and thus bring the judicial system of these countries to the desired and necessary level? If the EU's efforts to this end have not achieved the desired result, can the Minister explain why these efforts have failed? Can the Minister indicate what alternatives he believes there are to ensure that the EU countries concerned are able to set up their judicial system in such a way that fraud is effectively prevented, detected and prosecuted in their country? Does the Minister share our view that until a proper effort has been made to bring the judicial system of each of the failing countries to the desired level, it is far too early, as a matter of course, to throw a European Public Prosecutor's Office at the desired level, especially in view of the many uncertainties and high costs? Mr. Chairman. In addition, even if a European Public Prosecutor's Office is set up, there is no reason, in our view, to believe that in such countries with a failed judicial system, the EPPO would be able to effectively combat fraud, both at national and international level. After all, if the European Public Prosecutor's Office in those countries wanted to take action against fraud, it would have to cooperate with the national judiciary, and that device is not right. How can I ask the Minister, the European Public Prosecutor's Office, with any chance of success, operate in such a country if fraud is suspected or proven? Or, according to the Minister, can the European Public Prosecutor's Office act independently in such a country, ignoring and probably against the national judiciary? Can the Minister demonstrate that this will lead to effective detection of fraud? What is special is the fact that until recently both chambers were in a majority against the European Public Prosecutor's Office and the government agreement is now ignoring it. Could the Minister explain why the government is ignoring this now? Given the coalition agreement and the voting relations in the Second and First Chambers, it is expected that the Netherlands will unfortunately participate in the European Public Prosecutor's Office. On that basis, the SP and PvdD groups consider it important to hold a debate with the Minister on the following issues: the appeal that the European Public Prosecutor's Office can make to the Dutch investigation, prosecution and trial capacity and its impact on the Dutch budgets, democratic supervision and influence on the European Public Prosecutor's Office, the extension of the judiciary to the European Public Prosecutor's Office and legal protection and harmonisation of laws and regulations. I will go into this further. The first is the use of investigative, prosecution and judicial capacity. Accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office means that the Netherlands must provide the European Public Prosecutor's Office with investigation, prosecution and trial capacity. The EU regulation does not show that the appeal that the European Public Prosecutor's Office can make to investigation, prosecution and trial capacity is limited. It could thus claim unlimited capacity of the investigation, prosecution and trial authorities. How does the government intend to deal with this? I'd like the Minister's response. In his letter of 23 February 2018, the Minister wrote that he is currently expecting financial implications for the Public Prosecutor and the FIOD. The FIOD and the Public Prosecutor's Office are currently mapping the impact of participation in the European Public Prosecutor's Office by means of an impact analysis. In that letter and in his debate with the House of Representatives, the Minister undertook to inform the Chamber only once more about the expected costs and revenues and to keep the Chamber regularly informed of relevant developments. However, the detection and prosecution capacity is limited. At the moment, choices are already being made on which cases can and cannot be taken up by the investigation services, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. The financial and organisational pressure on the FIOD, the Public Prosecutor and the judiciary is already high and increasing that pressure is not desirable. The political groups of the SP and the Party for Animals consider it important that the participation of the Netherlands in the European Public Prosecutor's Office does not affect the national FIOD/surveillance, prosecution and trial capacity. Is the government prepared to ensure that the participation of the Netherlands in the European Public Prosecutor's Office is not at the expense of the national FIOD/surveillance, prosecution and trial capacity? As Europe shows a history of growth of EU bodies similar to that of self-riding baking flour, my question is whether the government is prepared to make annual compensation available to the FIOD/research services, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary so that the growing demand for FIOD/research, prosecution and trial capacity can be met from Europe in the long term. I'd like the Minister's response. The second point is democratic supervision and the exercise of influence over European Public Prosecutor's Policy. The Minister of Justice and Security is politically responsible for the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office. Parliament can call the Minister to account for this. This does not apply to the action of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The European Public Prosecutor's Office is solely accountable to the European Parliament, the Council of Ministers and the European Commission. As a result, Parliament can only indirectly call the Minister of Justice and Security to account for the actions of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, through the Council of Ministers. Is this not an erosion of the ministerial responsibility and democratic supervision exercised by the Dutch Parliament? I'd like the Minister's response. Recitals 16 and 17 of the EU Regulation state that the European Public Prosecutor's Office is independent and should not accept instructions. Nevertheless, in his letter of 23 February 2018, the Minister of Justice and Security writes that participation of the Netherlands in the European Public Prosecutor's Office implies that there is scope within this organisation, especially at central level through the College and the Permanent Chambers, to influence the development of the prosecution policy of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and the choices made in individual criminal cases. On what basis does the Minister consider that there is scope within the European Public Prosecutor's Office to influence the prosecution policy of the European Public Prosecutor's Office? Is the exercise of influence not contrary to the EU regulation? I'd like the Minister's response. The third point concerns the extension of the judiciary. To date, the judiciary consists of the judges and the prosecutors, who together form the Public Prosecutor's Office. Does participation of the Netherlands in the European Public Prosecutor's Office mean that the Dutch judiciary will be extended to include the European Public Prosecutor's Office? I'd like the Minister's response. Fourth and final point: legal protection and harmonisation of laws and regulations. Civilization is read out by the way one deals with the weakest. In any case, legal protection is not the central theme of the EU regulation on the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Reading the EU regulation, it raises a number of questions. If a Frenchman is apprehended outside the Netherlands and the Frenchman is then prosecuted by the European Public Prosecutor's Office in Poland, will the Polish court check whether the arrest was carried out outside the Netherlands, French or Polish law? I'd like the Minister's response. What's that like with a search of the Frenchman's house in the Netherlands? And what's that like with a search of a French company in the Netherlands? I'd like the Minister's response. If the European Public Prosecutor's Office investigates a Dutchman or a Dutch company, where can the Dutchman or the Dutch company request access to the documents ex Article 30 Code of Criminal Procedure from the time of arrest? Or does the European Public Prosecutor's Office not offer this legal protection? If the European Public Prosecutor's Office fails to give notice, can the defendant refer the matter to the court and to which court, similar to Article 30 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure? Or does the European Public Prosecutor's Office not offer this legal protection? I'd like the Minister's response. Pursuant to Article 182 Sv, a suspect may request the Judge Commissioner to carry out investigative acts. To which judge can the defendant do this and does the European Public Prosecutor's Office offer this legal protection? Suppose the country of arrest does have this legal protection and the country where the European Public Prosecutor's Office intends to prosecute the suspect does not offer this legal protection. Can the defendant still go to the judge of the country where that person was apprehended? In general: how is the legal protection of suspects secured in cross-border cases? I'd like the Minister's response. Harmonisation of laws and regulations would contribute to clarity for stakeholders on which laws and regulations apply in cross-border cases. How does the Minister view that? Why not harmonise laws and regulations before starting a public prosecutor's office that is allowed to operate EU-wide, in order to protect the legal status of those involved? I'd like the Minister's response. The political groups of the SP and PvdD look forward to the Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u7	Thank you, Mrs Wezel. I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The intention of the cabinet to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office is the famous camel nose. Once the camel's nose enters the tent, the rest will follow. The Minister stressed that the fight against fraud should be purely a matter of combating fraud, but we all know the insatiable hunger of the EU. A European Commissioner who does not seek to extend powers must be put directly in the display case. Once a European Public Prosecutor has been set up, it is not just a fight against fraud. Each European institute has been set up with the intrinsic urge to attract more tasks and powers. The EU never says "it's enough." That's just genetically determined. Several large Member States, as well as the European Parliament, have already indicated that the European Public Prosecutor should also be involved in other criminal matters. What guarantees can the Minister give that we are not going that way? In theory, of course, this requires general agreement from the Member States, but it is very easy to find routes that are still messing with us in this. We know the mores of the EU. It is precisely because of these concerns that the SGP has strong reservations about transferring Dutch sovereignty to the European level in the fight against fraud. Sovereignty transfer, inter alia, in the sense that the European Public Prosecutor can take over powers of investigation from participating Member States. And when that happens, what are the practical consequences for support staff and so on? Are they also being brought to Europe? Is this not a problem for dealing with national and local problems? What impact does this have? Mr. Chairman. The European Public Prosecutor should focus on the fight against EU fraud eligible for criminal sanctions. In itself, of course, a noble endeavour, but where is it that we have a European Public Prosecutor? Criminal law is a national competence in matters of excellence. Investigation and prosecution of criminal offences are primarily the responsibility of the national authorities. Supporters of the European Public Prosecutor's Office point out that fraud does not occur only at national or local level. That's right, but that brings me to another bottleneck. It is certainly conceivable that individuals or organisations involved in EU fraud may also take all kinds of other forms of scam and be branched into local society. This gives all kinds of intertwinedness with other investigations by police, tax authorities and so on. This is already very difficult to solve at local level, let alone an international investigation. We're talking about two separate worlds here. I fear that we have also run the risk of introducing the national police. It is very good that attention is being paid to national or international crime, but this is simply at the expense of capacity for detecting so-called minor suffering, close to home. I would like to point out that democratic control of detection and prosecution is guaranteed at national level. Our Parliament has an important responsibility for the design and design of our investigation and prosecution policy. But what about a European Public Prosecutor? Where is democratic control actually taking place here? Where's this locked up? Who is ultimately politically responsible? Mr. Chairman. I also ask the Minister whether it is not mainly the southern countries that are failing to deal with fraud. Why, then, a Europe-wide approach to this problem? Let us specifically encourage, stimulate and help the failing countries to improve their approach. Perhaps the withdrawal of subsidies could also be dealt with if necessary. In any case, we should not roll out European solutions to national problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u9	How exactly does the honourable Member see this if we were to focus this solely on the countries of southern Europe? What would be the criteria for bringing one country under such a regime and the other not under such a regime?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u10	My impression is that the inadequate approach to EU fraud is concentrated mainly in a number of specific Member States. That's what I asked the Minister. My appeal is simply: do not deliver tailor-made work and do not roll out anything across the EU to tackle these concrete, specific problems in certain countries. How exactly are we supposed to do that? I mentioned some examples. Let us encourage them, encourage them, help them improve their approach, but not introduce a Europe-wide approach to specific problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u11	I also ask this question to ask Mr Van Dijk how this fraud should be proved, in such a way that a procedure can follow. Isn't that just what capacity we need with a European Public Prosecutor's Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u12	In my opinion, we hold the Member States primarily responsible for tackling such EU fraud. We're gonna have to talk to them about that. We need to encourage that. We should not make this a problem of capacity at European level as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u13	Finally, Mr. Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. I see something double in that. You probably agree with us and everyone in this Chamber that the fight against fraud is extremely important. We also note that it is not in order in a number of cases, moreover in quite a few countries. It is starting with the fact that we are creating the capacity with each other to demonstrate this fraud sufficiently, so that it can be dealt with? Surely it is a reasonable request to deal with this, especially when it comes to EU funds, which we have all brought in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u15	Clear, but again, I would like to place that responsibility primarily at national level. In addition, I believe that what you want, namely an effective approach to this problem, can also be done by means of cooperation. In my opinion, you don't need a European Public Prosecutor for that. Let's see. In reply to Mr Postema's question, I have already said something about customisation, so I will skip that paragraph and then ask: does the Minister agree with the SGP that much has already been achieved in the area of cooperation between Member States? And if, at the moment, forms of fraud are not yet adequately dealt with by lack of cooperation or failing exchange of information between Member States, let us focus on that. What exactly happened to that in the past year? So as far as the SGP is concerned, we shall first optimise cooperation before we resort to the rather blunt means of transferring sovereignty in the sensitive area of criminal law. And how problematic is it really if the Netherlands does not participate in the European Public Prosecutor's Office? In any case, can the Netherlands work loyally with the European Public Prosecutor, just as we are now working with OMs from other Member States? Surely the fact that the Netherlands would not participate in the European Public Prosecutor's Office does not mean that the fight against fraud is being hindered? Does the Minister recognize this? I look forward to his reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u16	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the debate of 6 December 2016, which seems to have been going on for a long time, my group has already expressed its support for participation in the EPPO. Therefore, I will not repeat all the arguments I mentioned there, but the main argument is that it is important that cross-border fraud is tackled as effectively as possible, in the Netherlands and in Europe, for the sake of the necessary law enforcement and to strengthen citizens' confidence in the EU. I would like to emphasise this in response to the opponents, who have previously relied on citizens' distrust of the EU. We believe that a firm and conclusive approach in this area can demonstrate that the EU also serves the interests of citizens. The more protective the cooperation, the less opportunities fraudsters are offered to escape enforcement through the loopholes of the law. It is therefore particularly regrettable that there was insufficient support in the Dutch Parliament but also in a number of other Member States for this step. As a result, the path of the strengthened majority appears to be the most feasible option. We therefore wholeheartedly support the position of the new cabinet to join the EPPO. We do have a number of questions. Can the Minister elaborate on the most significant differences between enhanced cooperation and an EU-wide EOM? I am thinking of democratic control. Will more national parliaments be involved in this now? I am also thinking of the role of the Commission and the Court. And does it affect accountability processes, including those EU institutions? Can the Minister comment on the role of the non-participating countries and the opportunity it does not participate by some Member States for perpetrators and suspects to evade law enforcement? The previous minister said that a non-participant country cannot fully negotiate the regulation, which in itself makes sense. Now that we have been able to participate, but without having had any influence on the content of the regulation, I would like to ask whether the Minister has already looked at the opportunities that we have lost in doing so. The content of this regulation was ultimately achieved without our influence. On what points is the Minister more or less satisfied? Does the Minister consider it conceivable that, in the long term, an "EU-EOM" will be set up, for which this form of enhanced cooperation might provide the opportunity to gain experience? Mr. Chairman. The Commission has indicated that it is in favour of extending the mandate of the EPPO to terrorism. I understand the government's reluctance: first, to evaluate and then to look further. At the same time, terrorism is particularly cross-border and we are very dependent on mutual trust and effective cooperation. In practice, this proves to be quite difficult every time it comes to it. What possibilities does the Minister currently see to make cooperation between Member States more effective in the fight against terrorism? What is the Minister's concrete commitment to this in the JHA Council? In the letter, the Minister states that he expects the EPPO to be able to contribute to improving enforcement levels, particularly in those Member States where there is currently a lack of enforcement. I tend to agree with him. At the same time, the EPPO is not a panacea. Why there is a certain enforcement deficit in one Member State also depends on many other factors. What other measures will the EU accompany the EPPO to invest in these other factors, which will help to improve enforcement levels in those countries where there is currently a deficit? I think we will all benefit greatly from that. Mr. Chairman. Our main concern is the wide differences in procedural safeguards between Member States. The more cooperation and mutual recognition are built on, the more important it is to harmonise the safeguards for suspects and the level of legal aid in the EU. Of course, we already have several directives and framework decisions, but often this is a minimum level where the ECHR is the starting point. As a result, there are still considerable differences in the legal status of suspects and lawyers, as well as in the powers of the police and the judiciary. How does the Minister view this? Does he think that's desirable? Does he not see any reason to reconsider the need for further harmonisation in an EPPO? If not, what further harmonization does he consider appropriate and desirable? In the opinion of our group, this processal harmonisation could also make cooperation more effective and prevent it from being able to opt for a Member State with the least safeguards and most powers for the investigation and prosecution apparatus. Hence the question of how to prevent such a practice, which we therefore consider undesirable, from being carried out by the EPPO. Mr. Chairman. I would like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u19	Thank you, Mr President. I see you're very happy to see me again. Me too. In the latest debate on the EPPO on 6 December 2016, I indicated, on behalf of my group, that we believe that the EPPO can and will contribute to a more effective common fight against cross-border EU fraud, i.e. serious fraud involving European funds. In the 2016 debate, the Chamber did not rule on whether or not to join the EPPO. However, the Minister was called to participate actively in the further negotiations to continue to represent the Dutch interests. In the meantime, the new cabinet has indicated its intention to take a decision in the coming months on the moment of accession of the Netherlands to the EOM. By letter dated 23 February last, the Minister asked the Chamber, in accordance with an earlier undertaking, to adopt a position. For this purpose, the Minister explained through which procedure and the substantive lines the preparation of the establishment of the EPPO will continue and the consequences of the Dutch participation with regard to the legislation to be adapted, appointments, housing and the financial implications. This progress is reflected in the report of the JHA Council of 8 and 9 March. Mr. Chairman. My group is firmly convinced that the establishment of the EPPO will contribute to a more effective criminal law fight against cross-border EU fraud and related organised crime. This requires intensive cooperation between the Member States. In the meantime, we would like the Netherlands to continue to play an active part in discussing internal procedures at the EPPO, on the institution's strategy and on prosecution policy. We also see added value for effective criminal investigation and prosecution in the Netherlands, without violating the Dutch OM's application of the principle of opportunity. We believe that the interests of the Netherlands in the fight against fraud are better served with the EOM. Failure to participate could have an impact on the quality and results of national anti-fraud measures. Indeed, in certain cross-border situations, the Netherlands will not be able to do without the 'legal assistance' of participating Member States. Our national authorities will then have to turn to the EPPO, because the EPPO will have replaced the national authorities in the participating Member States. Conversely, the EPPO will apply to the Netherlands from this position for the provision of legal assistance in EU fraud cases. The Office has also found that non-participants in the EPPO create a number of vulnerabilities and uncertainties in terms of harmonious cooperation in the national approach to EU fraud. Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group therefore supports the Government's intention to participate in the EPPO. We have taken good note of the fact that an extension of the envisaged mandate, for example with the fight against terrorism, is not envisaged by the government, that financial coverage will be sought through a redeployment of resources at European level and that Europol, Eurojust and OLAF will play their own role. I would like to ask the Minister to what extent the intended start of the EPPO at the end of 2020 can be regarded as realistic at the moment. I await the Minister's response with interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u20	Thank you, Mr. English. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u21	Mr. Chairman. Fraud does not start where effective detection is absent or enforcement is not satisfactory, but fraud starts where the values of honesty, transparency and integrity need to be removed. Today, we are discussing the possible participation of the Netherlands in the European Public Prosecutor's Office, a new member of the EU tribe whose accompanying documents are much expected to effectively combat cross-border fraud involving EU funds. On the new lot, the expectations and the consequences will be more, but at the start of this contribution my group would like to point out that the issue of fraud has a moral dimension first of all. Because the Minister will also dream that participation in the EPPO would not be necessary, because no one is cheating. Unfortunately, this dream world does not exist, because the documents state that there is still too much fraud with EU funds, without effective prosecution and enforcement. However, I think it would be useful for this debate to have a more up-to-date picture of the estimated size and the figures currently available. Can the Minister give it to you? And can he explain what expectations he has regarding the effectiveness and efficiency of the European Anti-Fraud Office's approach to this fraud, both preventive and curative? What is the Minister's view of this gap in relation to the current approach? We are very curious about that. Although Article 86 of the EU Treaty already preaches the advent of a European Public Prosecutor's Office, in recent years the Christian Union Group has not seen sufficient reason to welcome developments in this regard. In fact, we supported the subsidiarity objection that was also raised in this Chamber with regard to the original proposal. Fraud, including EU funds, must be detected and addressed. My group would like to make no mistake about this. However, as long as other EU institutions are clearly still insufficiently performing, we have mentioned OLAF in particular at previous meetings, it is a very quick step forward, which may take away the incentive for the other bodies to produce better results. I therefore ask the Minister how he considers this objection, in the light of the new proposed regulation and the adjustments envisaged for OLAF. What guarantees does he have that criminal action will continue to be an ultimatum remedium and not a shift from administrative enforcement to criminal enforcement? More fundamentally, our objection is that jurisdiction to investigate the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office will now be shared with the European Public Prosecutor's Office, in which the latter may exercise a right of priority. The Netherlands is losing democratic control of this, as we know from the national prosecutors. How much does the Minister weigh this loss? The Government stresses that participation in the EPPO should be without prejudice to the principle of opportunity. Does the Minister think that the current regulation actually provides for this? Can the Minister spell out precisely what powers are delegated and how he appreciates this? Would this not actually be an issue on which an opinion from the Council of State would be useful? Has the Minister missed that, and would he consider it desirable in another situation? Mr. Chairman. The Juncker Committee's agenda is well known. The Christian Union Group notes with agreement that the government is not following it in relation to plans to extend the powers of the European Anti-Fraud Office to include serious cross-border crimes and/or the fight against terrorism. Speaking of letting go of the opportunity principle of the prosecution. However, in establishing the current EPPO with its current powers, the government's line of reasoning has also been that there are Member States that need help in detecting fraud. This is not organized sufficiently in their own country. The Juncker Committee will bring that argument back to its new agenda for the EPPO, after all? And what will the Minister then replicate on this requested support? The proposed regulation leaves the actual investigation to the national authorities, under the direction of the delegated prosecutor. How much happiness is there to expect from the EPPO in countries where the state of law is developing a little more? Does the Minister have a visual on that? Can he elaborate on that? Are we not going to get back to the first point that my group made: if the national government lacks moral awareness, will the ploughing continue on the rocks? And how does the Minister weigh up the reverse stimulus of the EOM's existence? Now that this body is focusing on combating cross-border fraud involving EU funds, national public prosecutors can do other things. setting more visible priorities and reducing the fight against fraud in the ranking of national activities, which will again be reflected in the call for greater powers to be conferred on the EPPO. Is this a real danger? Can the Minister say more about that? I also ask the Minister to clarify what concrete consequences he expects for the Netherlands itself. Can he provide insight or at least give some examples at which times in recent years the EPPO would have played an active role in our country, or where he would have liked to have seen the EPPO play an active role? The financial aspect, too, has not worked out much so far. When does the Minister expect to inform the Chamber? I am thinking not only of the financial contribution that the Netherlands will make, but also of monitoring national detection and prosecution capacity. Does this one stay on the same level? How does the Minister see this? Mr. Chairman. Let's be clear. The Christian Union's group has always been critical and question-driven about the arrival of an EOM, but it is now clear that many countries are looking at this very differently. The cabinet will have to deal with this in a sensible way. The coalition agreement gives the Minister the direction of joining the EPPO at some point. I'd like to hear from the Minister why he thinks "at some point" has come. The Netherlands will join, is the intention of the cabinet, to strengthen cooperation between about twenty countries. Stepping in is one thing, but in spite of the Dutch commitment, should the EOM unhoped to evaluate in such a way that powers become even more extensive, how does the Minister intend to set and keep a hard line? I have not yet come across how countries can emerge from enhanced cooperation. Does the Minister have any ideas as to how to do that? My group is curious whether there are exit criteria. So much for my first-term contribution, Mr. Chairman. It was a critical contribution, but it is precisely for this reason that I look forward to the response of this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u22	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I give the floor to Mrs Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u23	Thank you, Madam President. A long history precedes the establishment of the EOM. Apart from the fact that this Chamber raised a subsidiarity objection in 2013, it held an extensive exchange of views with the Government on this matter, both orally and in writing. On 6 December 2016, the Dutch Government's contribution to the JHA Council of 8 and 9 December 2016 was discussed with the then Minister of V and J. The House of Representatives had already taken a position at that time. The First Chamber had many questions and also concerns about the progress of the EOM file. This Chamber asked the then Minister of V and J not to take a final position on participation in the EOM before the First Chamber had the opportunity to discuss this with the Minister and to express its views on participation. In the meantime, the EOM is being set up. This means that, unlike in 2016, the creation of a European Public Prosecutor's Office is a fact that has been fulfilled. The European Commission is already preparing for the start of the EPPO. The question before us now is whether the Netherlands will participate in the EOM. The VVD Group has supported this House's earlier objection to subsidiarity. Several arguments played a role for her. Although it has been given a different structure to the proposal on which this Chamber has submitted an objection to subsidiarity, several arguments are still relevant. Firstly, the argument that the proposal for a regulation does involve fraud involving funds from EU institutions, or, in other words, offences at the expense of the EU budget, but that financial crime is almost always accompanied by other forms of crime. Now there is a intention to extend the mandate of the EPPO to the fight against terrorism. The government is still rather cautious about that in its letter. Maybe she feels this could be sensitive in this room. The Chamber could consider that a so-called salami technique. We are starting with a limited mandate and associated allocation of powers, but slowly we are extending it to a wider mandate, which we are expanding ever further. It is true that at least my group is reluctant to do so. What would the government's arguments be for such an extension of the mandate? Will the government reflect on the salami tactics that have just been outlined? Let me say in advance that for my group it is a condition for participation in the EPPO that every time there are plans to extend the mandate of the EPPO, they are submitted to this Chamber before the government can agree to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u24	Mrs Duthler gives the impression that others have done the same as if the EU were some sort of monster that goes on and on without us having any influence on it. So is the description of that salami tactic. But it is also your government that has finally written in the coalition agreement 'yes, we are going to do so' and 'we only want to shape the EPPO in this area'? Isn't what happens in the EU always dependent on political choices that we make here and that the government makes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u25	You actually ask different questions in one question. It seems to me appropriate to note that the government has a government position, but that the First Chamber has an independent role in this and that the First Chamber of the VVD also makes an independent assessment. This debate is intended to give greater weight to the independent balance so that we can actually make up for that balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u26	What are you referring to when you talk about "salamitism"? A salami tactic gives me the impression that there is no longer any influence on the process that is going on and on, whereas you are right to say: no, we are making an independent assessment. You have the freedom to say you're not going along with this. Then there's no salami tactic, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u27	This raises a very fundamental question, namely the transfer of national powers to a European institution. That's a big first step. It is now "only" about combating fraud with EU funds. This is an extremely European issue. Of course, it is quite obvious, however, that our SGP spokesperson also mentioned this as a matter of fact that at some point a European Public Prosecutor's Office will also want to carry out other tasks. That is obvious because it has the occupation, the organisation and the instruments. It wouldn't be too crazy if that mandate were to be extended in the near future. I called that "salami technique" or "salami tactics," but you could call it different. We are concerned that we are taking a big step now. The fight against fraud involving EU funds is very obvious. You can't really argue with that. But we bear in mind very well that it is very obvious that the mandate will gradually be extended. If we had to say yes now to a very extensive mandate from the EPPO, I wonder if we would give that a yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u28	Finally, Mrs Strik, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u29	Finally. You now attribute the salami tactics to an EOM, but that institute is not itself responsible for the mandate. I am very pleased to realise that these are still political decisions being made in the Member States. You and I know that we are also in the process of deciding on a future enlargement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u30	Hence my explicit request to the government to consult this Chamber on possible enlargement and not to agree to it until after this Chamber has been able to speak on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u31	I still hear a number of things from the VVD that I think are very big steps. You say that the fight against fraud involving EU money is primarily a European issue, but in the fight against fraud we are talking about detection and prosecution. Those are essentially national issues. So why do you assume that this should be a European matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u32	I am talking about the mandate that is now being given to the EPPO, which is limited to combating fraud involving EU funds. These are funds that all the Member States have introduced. That 'preparably' sees the European organisation, one might say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u33	Regardless of whether they are European funds or where they come from, it is the task of detection and prosecution. That is to be understood as "fighting'. We must say above all that this is a national matter and not that it is primarily a European matter. You're turning things around.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u34	It is obvious to tackle this in a European context. As I mentioned in my previous contribution, it is a major step for the VVD Group to support the transfer of national sovereignty. My group certainly sees the benefits of this, but at the same time it is also a very big step, just as it is for your group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u35	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u36	Our group is therefore not going along with this big step, especially not in the easy way that the VVD is doing it now. You say it's a big step, but you're actually making that step as a small leap. At the same time, you say that we do not extend the mandate without consulting the Chamber. But "consulted" means a consultation as we have it now. There doesn't even need to be a vote. There is no need for a concrete proposal. A consultation is apparently enough for the VVD to be able to take that step?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u37	I'll get back to you on that. I would like to point out to the PVV Group that the EOM is now a fact. Whatever we think of it now, the EOM will be there. The question before you is: are you going to cooperate with it or are you going to participate in it? But there's no point in being against an EOM, because it's there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u38	Another very, very small point, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u39	You say, "EOM is coming." Then I would like to ask: at what point has it been explicitly decided, in both the First and the Second Chamber, that we are now truly 100% sure to join the EOM? For I have read in the coalition agreement that it only determines the moment when possible accession is to take place, and that is a condition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u40	Today's debate is not for nothing, because the debate in 2016 did not lead to a position. We are continuing that debate today, although the situation is different from that in 2016. So we are having this debate for a reason, because we can speak as a Chamber about whether or not we want to participate. We're having this debate for a reason. That's what that's for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u41	Please continue, Mrs. Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u42	For the sake of clarity, it has not yet been said that the VVD Group would support an extension of the mandate of the EOM in advance. In the light of the exchange of views, that may be clear. My group would like to know from the government how likely it is that the mandate of the EPPO will be extended in the long term. Or is this a question of the way forward, and does the government share the opinion of the VVD Group that it is not a question of extending the mandate, but of when? A second argument was that the powers conferred on the EPPO could go too far and lead to conflicts with national authorities. Will the Minister state again whether powers may be conferred on the EPPO with those of national authorities, which are, and what measures are being taken to prevent such conflicts? These arguments are linked to the argument of the transfer of sovereignty. We've mentioned that before. Criminal law is a fundamental part of the national sovereignty of the Member States. This should in principle remain with the Member States and not be transferred to a European body. To what extent is there a transfer of sovereignty with the EPPO? Is there merely a complementary system, or also a combination of the powers of the European Chief Prosecutor and of a Delegated Prosecutor? Would the Minister like to explain that again? And what does the so-called right of evocation look like? Madam President. Another point on which my group would like to clarify is that of political responsibility for the EPPO. Other groups have already asked for this. Who is politically responsible for the EPPO? And how is Parliament's control of the EPPO ultimately designed? The position of the EOM is different from that of the Dutch OM. The Chief Prosecutor of the EPPO may be dismissed by the Court of Justice only if he is no longer able to perform his duties or is seriously misbehaving. Although the Dutch Public Prosecutor operates remotely, the ultimate responsibility lies with the Minister of Justice and Security. To what extent and to whom should the prosecutors be accountable when they carry out their duties as a European Delegated Prosecutor for the EPPO? I'd like an answer from the Minister. Madam President. Then the effects of non-participant participation in the EOM. Will the Minister state again what the precise disadvantages would be if the Netherlands did not participate in an EOM, but would cooperate with it? It has sometimes been suggested that if the Netherlands did not participate in such an EOM, the fraud might shift to the Netherlands. To what extent does it apply that if the Netherlands were to confine itself to cooperation with the EPPO and thus not participate in it? How does the Minister view this? I'd like a response from the Minister. And what about tackling fraud involving EU funds in Member States that do not participate in the EPPO? How can fraud involving EU funds be tackled in these countries? After all, the underlying idea behind the EOM proposal was that we needed a stick behind the door to tackle fraud involving EU funds across Europe. Another question is what the cost picture looks like. How big is the EOM's budget? How much does participation in the EOM Nederland cost? And what would be the cost if the Netherlands were to limit itself to cooperation? Furthermore, my group understands that a so-called case management system is being tendered. It seems to me that such a system for the day-to-day practice of the EPPO is indispensable. In any case, procurement of ICT systems is often a headache for the Dutch government. How is it ensured that all functionalities are realised, the costs are controlled and it is also ready in time? My group understands that the appointment of the Chief Prosecutor is foreseen for the first half of 2019. A year is quite short for the procurement of such a system and its subsequent development and production. I'd like a response from the Minister. Almost finally, Madam President. My group, like other groups, is curious to see what cooperation with OLAF and Eurojust looks like, and what mechanisms are being put in place to give real substance to this cooperation. The Minister will undoubtedly say something about that. Madam President, finally. Now that the establishment of the EPPO is a fact, my group's position tends to take part in the EPPO rather than cooperate. I say 'no' because my group's final consideration depends on the Minister's answers to the questions and comments. In addition, my group will want to make participation conditional on its having control over each individual case of extending the mandate of the EPPO. It would also like to hear from the Minister whether he is prepared to submit such an extension, if any, to this Chamber before agreeing to it. My group looks forward with interest to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u43	Mr. Van Hattem, you have a different question than you just asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u44	Yes. I hear the VVD say: the establishment of the EOM is a fact. The question is: how does the VVD look at it now? So is participation in the EOM for the VVD a fact, too, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u45	That depends on the answers the Minister is about to give to the questions raised by my group. If you have to choose between participation or cooperation, you will also eventually consider what influence you have on the organisation and the functioning of the EM. Several factors play a role in this, but the most important ones are the answers which I believe the Minister will give in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u46	Then let me rephrase the question. With regard to the VVD, is there any other way than the roads you just outlined, namely a definitive no towards the EOM and any Dutch cooperation with them or participation in them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u47	That's not realistic. It's either working together or participating. The EOM is here. So you'd better get in on that, in whatever form.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u48	So the VVD actually says yes in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u49	The VVD Group awaits the Prime Minister's answers in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u50	Thank you, Mrs Duthler. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Already when the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union was adopted in 2007, Article 86 laid down the principle that a European Public Prosecutor's Office could be established for the protection of the EU's financial interests. That was ten years ago. In 2013, the European Commission submitted a proposal to establish that European Public Prosecutor's Office. That was five years ago. On 6 December 2016, an amended text of the proposal was discussed in a rather confused situation here in the Upper House. The House of Representatives had declared itself against it. The government was in favour but felt bound by the ruling of the House of Representatives and, after discussion, wanted to take account of the opinion of the House of Representatives. The First Chamber itself seemed to be in favour of majority voting in the debate, but did not wish to make a clear statement on the matter by way of a motion. That was a year and a half ago. Now the government is still in favour, the House of Representatives is now in majority agreement and we are now holding a debate to give a clear opinion. The fact that there has been talk of the EOM for so long is not for nothing. OLAF, the EU's fraud service, notes many frauds involving EU funds that should be investigated and prosecuted by the Member States, but only 50% of the cases actually do so. As a result, the EU sees EUR 50 billion being spent illegally, without being able to do much about it. After all, it is the Member States that make and justify the expenditure. How come there's so little prosecution going on? The Minister may want to say something about this, but it is clear, of course, that many Member States have a less effective police and judicial system than, for example, the Netherlands. It will also be the case that, for various internal reasons, the importance of persecution in Brussels is felt to be stronger than that of those responsible in the Member States. In this context, the fact that the weaker Member States are all very much involved in the EPPO is actually a very positive signal and also a sign that it is needed there. But also for us, who are reasonably in order, it goes without saying that if a lot of European money is spent illegally, it is also our money, which does not yield what it should yield. Now that this is not just about subsidy fraud but also about large-scale cross-border VAT fraud, it is all about a lot of money. The European Commission indicates that the EPPO can therefore become a game changer for the new Multiannual Financial Framework. That would be a boost, especially for the Netherlands, which wants to keep the EU budget as small as possible. How does the Minister see the possibilities for this? Mr. Chairman. The fact that the Netherlands ultimately chooses to participate in the European Economic Area seems to me to be a wise decision. The fact that in future even more cross-border crime will be added to the mission of the EPPO seems to me to be inevitable. It seems wise to participate, despite the fact that there are, of course, objections. The Dutch Public Prosecutor was not sitting and I do not think he is really waiting for an obligation to provide a European Prosecutor and Delegated Prosecutors, nor for instructions from Luxembourg on what actions should be brought in a particular case. The Dutch Public Prosecutor also prefers to set his own priorities, but I would once again ask the Minister whether, on balance, the Public Prosecutor himself does not come to the conclusion that it is better to use the joint European commitment of quality and capacity, especially in international affairs, rather than to stay outside and have to look at the international field in other ways. It is a good thing that the centralised structure provided for in the original proposal has been replaced by a steering mechanism in which each member participates, with an implementation that remains completely national, and there was a lot of confusion during the previous debate on 28 December 2016 that the Public Prosecutor remains free to prosecute himself where he does not want to prosecute and vice versa. Perhaps the Minister would like to comment on that, but a question about that latter case is what is happening and by whom, as the EPPO, prosecution attracts itself. How does that work now? Finally. The EPPO does not have political control, as our OM does, but it can act completely independently and is accountable to the European institutions, the Council, the Commission and Parliament. That is perhaps better in this situation, where it has to do with so many weak states. Then perhaps political control would be less appropriate. What does the Minister actually think of that? I come to the very last question. In the meantime, the procedure and preparations for the appointment of the Chief Prosecutor have been initiated. Can the Netherlands still play into this or are we actually too late for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u52	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. I give the floor to Mrs Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u53	Mr. Chairman. This dossier on the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Office is certainly not an average dossier and is extremely complicated, as the then Minister for Security and Justice said in the debate of 6 December 2016. Consultations on the provisions of the Regulation started in 2013. Adjustments have been made on several occasions, resulting in the current text of the Council of the European Union Regulation of 19 December 1989. 12 October 2017. Today, the central question in this house is whether the Netherlands should participate in the European Public Prosecutor's Office. In accordance with the commitment of the then Minister of V and J, the government will involve the final judgment of both Chambers of the States-General in its final position on this participation. The current status is that 20 countries have declared themselves in favour of a European Public Prosecutor's Office. Three countries - England, Ireland and Denmark - are absolutely opposed. The Dutch Government has expressed the wish to join the European Public Prosecutor. Mr. Chairman. Our group did not participate in the previous debate in December 2016, so that I start by appointing the principles of 50PLUS in conjunction with the European Union. In the belief of 50PLUS, the European Union has only three core tasks, which I am referring to in general: economic and monetary policy, environmental and energy policy and border policy. My group believes that the scope of EU policy should be limited. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, the EU should only carry out those tasks that cannot be carried out at national level. We adhere to the traditional principle of subsidiarity. As stated in the letter of 23 March 2018, the European Public Prosecutor has the authority to investigate and prosecute under certain circumstances where there is a suspicion of EU fraud or other criminal practices that may harm the financial interests of the Union. That sounds good, because who does not want to fight European fraud and reduce the misuse of subsidies? That's in the best interest of all of us, isn't it? It appears from the documents that it concerns in particular EU fraud in those Member States where national authorities fail to act adequately or, in other words, allow or tolerate fraud. Since these Member States do not act effectively at national level, the national criminal authorities are not prosecuting or hardly prosecuting them, the idea has emerged that the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Office can play a decisive role in this. After all, a European Public Prosecutor has independent powers and can order investigations and prosecutions. The construction consists of a European Chief Prosecutor, who will cooperate with delegated public prosecutors in the Member States in accordance with the legislation in force there, with a strong built-in national component. For the Netherlands, as a Member State, it is both formally and materially able to prosecute and judge in the event of EU grant fraud taking place on its territory. There's no doubt about that. In the case of cross-border fraud involving EU funds, there is already an obligation for Member States to cooperate in criminal matters. The Dutch Public Prosecutor may also assist other Member States in investigations or prosecutions without the European Public Prosecutor's Office, including by sharing information and expertise when EU fraud takes place, both in the Netherlands and in another Member State. My group supports the fact that this cooperation can be improved or intensified. The need for the EU as a whole to maintain and monitor more effectively with the resources at its disposal is a fact. But the fact that this should automatically lead to a shift of national powers to a new European body, such as a European OM, is a step too far for our group. In addition, the assertion that a European Public Prosecutor can and will contribute to a more effective fight against cross-border fraud involving EU funds is an assumption, which still needs to be proven in practice. Because what does implementation mean in practice? We see an artificial and complex construction on the responsibility of the European Public Prosecutor and the Member States' public prosecutors, where the procedural guarantees in the Member States are insufficiently harmonised and not all the same, resulting in a diversity between national and European competences. Mr. Chairman. In the debate in December 2016, the then Minister repeatedly stated that non-participants would not be in the Dutch interest. This was based not only on the consideration of the fight against fraud in relation to EU funds, the main objective, but also on two other considerations. On the one hand, the Netherlands could not provide input for the text of the Regulation in the event of no participation. On the other hand, the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor would certainly not take place in The Hague. The text has now been established and the European Public Prosecutor will be established in Luxembourg. Does the Minister agree with me that these two considerations have now become obsolete? Does that change his position on Dutch participation in the European Public Prosecutor's Office? Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS has weighed all pros and contras against each other. We do not believe that the creation of a European Public Prosecutor's Office would be the appropriate means, the one that has been mentioned before, to force Member States where national authorities do not take adequate action against EU subsidy fraud to do what they are supposed to do, namely to investigate, prosecute and prosecute such offences. There is no doubt that these Member States should be forced to do so. But that can be done with other means of power, such as suspending or reducing subsidies. I have already pointed out that, in view of all the objections that have already been raised, my group has in no way the impression that the European Public Prosecutor is going to be an outstanding success, especially with all the open ends in criminal law, where the responsibilities and powers between the European Public Prosecutor and participating Member States are complicated and worrying. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, I would like to draw your attention to my group's position on subsidiarity. Because a number of Member States do not tackle targeted EU fraud, there will be an institution, preferably for all Member States, that will adopt it. National failure of certain Member States must therefore be solved at European level by means of a European OM. The presentation of a European OM as a sacred grail, as a problem solver for cross-border EU subsidy fraud sounds tempting, but in practice means restricting the powers of national authorities in the area of criminal law. The question for my group is that a European Public Prosecutor can and will help to reduce or prevent EU subsidy fraud. Our group is therefore opposed to the participation of the Netherlands in a European Public Prosecutor's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u54	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I give the floor to Mr Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u55	Mr. Chairman. Our country's association with the European Public Prosecutor's Office for Fraud has proved to be a long way off. This is a curious phenomenon, as it is often argued, even in this House, that cross-border VAT fraud and fraud involving EU funds should be tackled hard and effectively. And that is not the least of all where, according to numerous reports, it concerns not only the Member States of Eastern and Southern Europe in particular, including the inability of justice and politics to put an end to this. Justice and politics there are sometimes intertwined with fraud and serious crime. The recent reporting of the fraud committed by the European Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF, by the company Elios associated with the Orbán family seems to be another example of this. It is a good thing for many of these countries that they are in favour of strong European judicial cooperation through a European Public Prosecutor. Examples include Bulgaria, Cyprus, Greece, Croatia, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia, Slovakia, Spain and the Czech Republic. The fact that this is not the case for Hungary is typical and regrettable. And had it not also ordained our country to give our support to the EPPO from the outset, as provided for in the Treaty of Lisbon? However, with the coalition agreement Trust in the future seems to have become a welcome European wind for the government parties. Can we see that right? That is my first question to the Minister. In the meantime, the government is also keen to join the initiative of the EPPO and to inform the Council and the Commission accordingly. During the plenary debate on the establishment of the EOM in the Senate on 6 December 2016, it was agreed with then Minister Van der Steur that the government will involve the final judgment of both Chambers of the States General in its final position on whether or not the Netherlands participate in this EOM. This final judgment will have to be passed by the Senate today, and as far as my group is concerned, it is positive. As has already been said, it seems that this opinion is now widely supported in this Chamber. As a result, the motion 33709 with the letter X of our former colleague, Mr Schrijver, which calls on the government to give a positive opinion in principle on the proposal of the then Slovak EU Presidency on the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, hopefully could be definitively withdrawn after reply by the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Public funds fraud is inadmissible. This applies to practices in our own country. This applies equally to practices in other Member States, not only because fraud also leads to an unfair and unfair use of resources and undermines the sense of justice, but also because the money raised jointly by European citizens and businesses is involved. So we really should be able to say something about it, when there are reasonable doubts about the fight against fraud in other Member States, as they may find something of our own in some cases. As far as my group is concerned, the prevention of fraud and abuse of Community funds is not, in this way, a good thing to hide behind the principle of subsidiarity. Mr. Chairman. We understand that the European Public Prosecutor's Office has not yet chosen to include serious crime and the fight against terrorism. Although there is often, and sometimes by definition, cross-border activity and far-reaching European cooperation is thus needed, the feasibility of an EPPO which also focuses on this is not evident at present, not least because it is much more difficult to define tasks and competences in these areas. However, we do not rule out the fact that in the future the EPPO will be expanding its tasks. The government shares this, so we ask the Minister. The location of the EOM is now also known. That has become Luxembourg, as such, a logical choice. However, it is a bitter pill that was not chosen for The Hague as a city of establishment, which would have been an excellent candidate, not least because of Eurojust's establishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u56	It's a little unclear. Does the PvdA already opt in advance for job expansion as a desirable direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u57	We understand that it has not been chosen now, also in order to get off to a good start with the European Public Prosecutor's Office. We also see that if you extend that to serious crime, you will still have a difficult demarcation discussion. If it turns out to be an effective form of organisation, we will not rule out such an extension and we will also support it, provided that this demarcation discussion is well-satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u58	Okay, that's clear. The PvdA therefore opens the door to extending this task to tasks other than the fight against fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u59	Those are your words. I have just reported that, if it turns out that the European Public Prosecutor's Office is operating effectively in the field of combating fraud and the discussion on the job definition is well conducted, we do not exclude that it could also apply to a wider area. Mr. Chairman. I asked the Minister how the allocation process actually went. Does the Minister consider that the long-standing hesitation of various political parties to join the EOM has adversely affected the candidacy of The Hague? I'm rounding up. It is striking how defensive the Netherlands often behaves when it comes to European matters that go beyond the single market and EMU alone. And also there we prefer to position ourselves as a grocery store behind the counter. As a result, we are not in the lead in many relevant areas, such as foreign policy, security and the social pillar. It's hard to steer when you step on the brake at the same time. And a pole position at the start is often half the work. I hope that the President does not blame me for the fact that this metaphor, at the beginning of the Formula 1 season, forced itself into being. I look forward to receiving the Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u60	Thank you, Mr. Postema. I give the floor to Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u61	Madam President. A lot has been said, that's the downside when you're last in line. So I'll limit myself too. There is also reason to restrict the content of the CDA group, because we have always insisted on the participation of the Netherlands in the establishment of the EOM. We therefore welcome this Minister's clear position. Look, he'll hear that, won't he? What a relief, such a clear point of view. We have also taken note of the content of all the amendments made to the file since 2013. Those drastic changes have helped to determine our position. The argument put forward by the government in the letter of 23 February to participate in the EOM fits perfectly with our argument, as I put it in December 2016. Fraud must be combated. EU fraud is often cross-border and often also related to organised crime. Intensive cooperation is therefore inevitable in this area, especially for the effectiveness of our own Dutch criminal investigation. Thus, the EPPO has a clear added value here, the CDA Group believes, and can provide an important boost, especially where it is badly needed: in the Member States where there is a lack of enforcement, as colleagues have also stressed. By jumping on the driving train of the enhanced cooperation as soon as possible as the Netherlands, our government can use its influence on the development of the prosecution policy of the EOM and the choices to be made in individual criminal cases. My group can agree with the position, which has already been discussed regularly this afternoon, that extending the mandate of the EPPO to, for example, counter-terrorism is not currently being discussed. However, I repeat what I said also in December 2016: it is the conviction of the CDA Group in the First Chamber that our continent in the field of Justice and Security will benefit more than less Europe in the coming decades. Think, for example, of cybercrime, international trafficking in human beings and weapons and control at our European external borders. Against this background, therefore, our group does not need the VVD motion to state explicitly once again, for now and for all, that there should be no extension of that mandate. The letter from the government of 23 February already states that this is not the issue at the moment. That's wise, too. Now let's do what we need to do now and see what we need later. I have a few more questions for the Minister. It is a good thing that the EPPO is financed from existing EU funds. My question to the Minister is about the costs that Dutch institutions such as the Public Prosecutor and the FIOD have to incur for their contributions to the work of the EOM. Will they be compensated for this? This was also explicitly mentioned by Mrs Van Wezel of the SP. Or do they have to cope with these efforts within their own budgets? If that is the case, how does our government intend to keep these services at war strength? What does this mean for the existing targets of these services? Then there is another question: will the Minister undertake to ensure that the EOM's existence does not undermine, and will not do so, the principle of opportunity towards our Dutch OM? Finally, two other things. Now that Luxembourg appears to be the place of business, that proves once again how sad it is that we have not been at the wheel of this dossier from the outset. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. Would it have been possible to link up with Eurojust in The Hague? Mr Postema said this as well. My last question: does the Minister still see the possibility of bringing the name EOM, which is confusing to many people, closer to the actual, now very thinned task? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u62	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. Does one of the Members still wish to speak? I shall then suspend the debate until 5 p.m.; unfortunately this is not possible because of committee meetings. There are committee meetings planned for Justice, JHA, all in the suspension, which we had calculated in relation to the number of registrations. So I'm suspending the sitting until 4:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u63	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposed participation of the Netherlands in the European Public Prosecutor's Office. I give the floor to the Minister for Justice and Security for his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u64	Thank you, Madam President. One only has to take a single look at the digital file E130041 on the European Space Agency, to find out at the Europapoort of your website, President, what a long journey the European Space Agency has made in the meantime. I have heard Mr Rombouts' driving train pass, but also Mr Postma's Formula 1 car. I must tell you that I always think that is wonderful metaphors, but I had to concentrate on associating them with the European Public Prosecutor's Office in both chambers. The camel also passed by and Mr Van Dijk will hopefully not point me profane if I make a small parallel with Matthew 19:24, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a European Public Prosecutor to enter the kingdom of detection. It may have taken a long time, but I would like to say through you, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, that I am very grateful to your Members for their input in this important area on previous occasions. It was a pleasure to read the November and December 2016 documents, but also today. Thus, we have come a long way with that moving train or camel since the Commission presented its proposal for the EOM in July 2013. From the outset, it was clear that the first proposal was not well thought out. It is therefore no surprise that many national parliaments, including your two Chambers of the States-General, have criticised that original proposal, in particular the elaboration of subsidiarity and proportionality. This has even led to what I would like to describe with a different metaphor as a 'yellow card' to the Commission. You can remember that, but well, by now, the EPPO Regulation, which entered into force on 20 November 2017, has been substantially amended in relation to the original proposal for the 20 Member States currently participating in enhanced cooperation. I think it is really good that we should emphasise this again here. I have a few examples to illustrate. I would like to reassure you, Madam President, that I am in the process of addressing in this introductory text some of the concerns expressed by your Members in individual questions. My examples. The structure of the EPPO has become substantially different with the arrival of the College, among other things. The EPPO no longer has exclusive competence for EU fraud, but shares that competence with the Member States. There is now a direct link between the responsible European Delegated Prosecutor and the European Prosecutor from the same Member State, which is also known as the national chain of command. There is therefore no longer a disguised form of harmonisation of investigative powers or procedural safeguards. Both of them remain, and I shall come back to that in a little more detail later on, a matter of national law. Under the Presidency of the Netherlands, the relationship with Eurojust and OLAF has been greatly clarified, and recently I and the margin of the JHA Council have clearly indicated that, if the Netherlands were not to continue to participate, this should not have a negative impact on the allocation of funds to Eurojust and OLAF. Mrs Jourová then spoke out loud in plenary. In recent years, the Netherlands has thus exercised influence over time and has not been sidelined. Certainly, it is true: the seat was clear that it would go to a country that would certainly participate. That was not clear from the Netherlands for a very long time and, of course, it is only when the cabinet has finally decided to do so that your considerations are taken into account. I informed you in the letter of 23 February that the cabinet intends to inform the Council and the Commission in the short term of the Dutch wish to participate in the EPPO. This is also the result of the coalition agreement, as you know. It has been a conscious choice to take part in the European Public Prosecutor's Office. EU fraud because that is what this is all about in this clearly defined mandate, and I understand, if you will excuse me, that VAT carousel fraud, too, is often of a cross-border nature and is often also related to organised crime. Increased cooperation between Member States in the fight against this extensive form of crime with EU funds is therefore inevitable, including for the effectiveness of criminal investigations in the Netherlands. The College of Attorneys General described it in its November 2016 letter as an important advantage of participating in the EPPO: efficiency. I'll say it very briefly. Direct cooperation between the Union and the United States of America will give me the name - EOMs in the various Member States, while maintaining the applicability of national law, including the legal guarantees laid down therein, which will also make it easier for the Court of Justice to review the case. After all, in EU fraud cases, that is also what the College states in that November 2016 letter, which is no longer necessary to make legal aid applications. For these reasons, the Cabinet is convinced that the establishment of the EPPO will boost the fight against criminal law against EU fraud, especially in those Member States where enforcement is lagging behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u65	I hear the Minister say that the cabinet has become convinced that it should join the EPPO because of its efficiency and that legal aid is no longer required. But now a disproportionate heavy instrument is being chosen, the rigging of the EPPO, while a lighter means could have been chosen, namely the simplification of legal aid applications. Why wasn't that lighter agent chosen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u66	Then you keep having the problem that you can't get a real efficiency match. These are the two EOMs in the case of two countries; in the case of VAT carousel fraud, they will often create more countries in those different countries, as was the intention of the EOM.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u67	It is an assumption that those two countries could create that through those two EOMs. There is no certainty that this will actually happen. There are also other countries that do not participate in the EPPO and which will still need legal aid applications. Wouldn't it have been much better for all the countries in which the Netherlands carries out investigations into fraud cases to simply create easier legal aid requests? Then you could have struck a much bigger battle in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u68	Well, the countries that are not currently participating are Sweden, Poland, Hungary, Ireland and Denmark. The UK is not participating either, but I'll put that aside, with your permission. Finally, Malta, which expressed its intention to participate in the JHA Council on 9 March. That leaves a small number of countries, which, by the way, still have complex legal aid procedures at the moment. Then you will still have that objection and you will have it, but that also applies if you keep 28 Member States, so also bilaterally with all those countries that need to simplify legal aid applications. You don't have to do that if, like I said, you're gonna work with an EOM like that. Another advantage is that there will be more insight into what goes wrong in other countries. Some of your Members have pointed out the enforcement deficit in some Member States and expressed concern about it. But this is precisely where the EPPO offers an opportunity to help, first and foremost, raise the level of detection and prosecution in those countries, at least in relation to those EU frauds. This can even be an example effect through best practices. Secondly, the annual reports of the EPPO allow much more insight into what is actually happening in the Member States concerned in the field of at least EU fraud and VAT carousel fraud. On 7 March last, a majority of the House of Representatives approved the government's intention to participate. I look forward with interest to the opinion of your Chamber during the meeting today. I will now be happy to answer any further questions you may have. First of all, I should like to refer to Mrs Bikker's point of view on the principle of opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u69	I hear the Minister say that on 7 March last the House of Representatives agreed to participate in the EOM. Actually, I haven't been able to see anything back from a vote. There has only been an AO on the JHA Council in which it has been discussed, but I do not think that explicit agreement has been discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u70	No, but the majority of the Chamber expressed a positive view of this participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u71	Yes, but without any vote or any explicit statement or approval. There's only been an AO that's been consulted on it, and that's all. I haven't been able to find an agreement in anything. What does the Minister derive from the fact that there is an explicit agreement by the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u72	I'll get back to you in a moment. As far as I know, the House of Representatives has been given the opportunity to express its views on this matter. She's been showing off in a positive way. There have been no objections from the House of Representatives. That is actually the procedure for such a plan as this. If there is anything additional to that, I would like to assure you that I will come back to that in the second term, but I do not think so. I would have stayed with Mrs Bikker and Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Rombouts on the principle of opportunity. The EPPO and the national prosecutor are both competent to prosecute EU fraud cases. Participation in the EPPO as such is without prejudice to the application by the Dutch OM of the principle of opportunity. In other words, if the Dutch Public Prosecutor exercises his powers of action, it can simply continue to apply the principle of opportunity, including in an EU fraud case. The EPPO cannot force the Dutch prosecutor to prosecute an EU fraud case if the prosecutor does not want to prosecute. However, in matters covered by its mandate, the Public Prosecutor may decide to withdraw and prosecute an EU fraud case that is taking place in the Netherlands. That is the so-called right of evocation. This can be done both in a situation where an investigation has been initiated or the prosecution is to proceed as well as in a situation in which the prosecution decides not to prosecute. One reason for exercising the right of evocation, for example, may be that the case affects more Member States. Then the investigation in that particular situation will continue under the authority of the EPPO. The EPPO shall then initiate the prosecution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u73	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u74	Is it about this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u75	Yeah, this is definitely about this point. This is really about the opportunity principle. I hear the Minister say that the principle of opportunity is not affected, but the principle of opportunity can be expressed both positively and negatively: the right to prosecute but also the right not to prosecute. If our Dutch OM says not to prosecute and then the EPPO does take the matter to itself, I think that this is a violation of the principle of opportunity, because they still pass the Dutch OM. How does the Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u76	I see that as follows. The principle of opportunity means that in the Netherlands this is different from, for example, Germany: there is the principle of legality that the public prosecutor can decide whether or not to prosecute. That's a choice the D.A. has. He can still make it here. There is no doubt that if the prosecution fails to prosecute in a particular case, the EPPO may decide for reasons that it will prosecute. I have just mentioned, as an example, a matter that is being dealt with in more countries. You could almost say that this is then the opportunity principle that applies to the EPPO in that case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u77	Then it remains that if the Dutch prosecutor, who is primarily competent in Dutch territory, decides not to prosecute and decides to do so, the Dutch prosecutor's opportunity principle will be removed, because there will still be persecution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u78	The Dutch OM's principle of opportunity has still been exercised, because the Dutch OM has decided that it will not prosecute, that it will not spend any more time on this. And no capacity; let us emphasize that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u79	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u80	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Apart from whether time or capacity is put into it, the principle of legal proceedings is used. Within the Netherlands, as a Member State of the European Union, the EPPO will act. It just passes through the Dutch Public Prosecutor. Then it is a restriction of the principle of opportunity in the Dutch rule of law, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u81	No, they don't pass the Dutch D.A. One makes one's own choice. This is, once again, only about the part of EU fraud, because that is what the mandate is for. In it, the Dutch Public Prosecutor is given the opportunity to say that it is not going to prosecute. That could have all kinds of backgrounds. This could be a capacity balance, as I have just said, or because it is taking place in more European countries and the public prosecutor thinks: that is not appropriate for us. Who knows, maybe the EOM would like to pick it up. The EPPO will then have the opportunity to pick it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u82	This is an interesting question, isn't it? If the EPPO decides to prosecute, while the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office had decided not to do so, who should take a concrete approach? For persecution and trial are done within the national frameworks and by the national authorities, if I understand correctly. Then it is the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office and the Dutch case law who have to take care of the further elaboration? Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u83	The European Public Prosecutor will then take responsibility for bringing that prosecution. The fact that this is still done under Dutch law and by a Dutch judge is quite separate from that, because the Dutch judge does not take a decision on prosecution. It's completely unrelated to that. So it doesn't matter. However, in such a situation, the EPPO can say: we believe that there are reasons to prosecute here. There you see, I think, that extra European dimension. That is why the mandate is really limited to European frauds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u84	And of course there's a good thing in that too. Of course, the EPPO should also have the opportunity to enforce where necessary, because in too many cases this does not happen at the moment. But the question remains as to how this will be worked out in practice. Who's gonna do that in practice? The EPPO cannot act on its own within the Dutch legal order, whereas such a settlement must take place within the Dutch legal order. So who does that anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u85	The Dutch European Prosecutor should help form the prosecution policy of the European Prosecutor within the European Prosecutor's Office. He's gonna be the one who's gonna have to take the case under his responsibility. That was my answer to the question of the principle of opportunity. Then there is an important issue raised by Mrs Wezel on legal protection and harmonisation. She asked for legal protection on the basis of examples. The EPPO shall carry out investigations in accordance with national criminal law rules. The standards are also contained in the national criminal law codes. The Court of Justice of the European Communities has just referred to the Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling on the basis of its own national code. The same goes for the judge commissioner. If there is to be cross-border action, this can also be reviewed by the court. The EPPO will not change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u86	Does this mean that an Italian judge is going to test whether a search was conducted properly in Berlin, or whether it was carried out in accordance with German rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u87	In principle, if it is a case that will take place in Italy, the Italian court will assess under Italian law whether everything is lawful under Italian criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u88	If there is no need for authorisation from a judge-supervisor in Germany and if that search was therefore carried out without authorisation from the judge-supervisor, but in Italy, then the investigation did not take place lawfully in that house.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u89	I'm about to go into that detail, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u90	I don't care about the detail. If there is an investigation abroad, an arrest or whatever, what is being examined? An Italian court does not know German law on a particular scheme. You can't ask that of that judge, but that's a problem the judge who gets the case is facing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u91	I understand from the Minister that he will return to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u92	Yeah, I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u93	Mr Van Hasselt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u94	Van Hattem. Hasselt is just down the road.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u95	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u96	I hear the Minister say that national legislation, the national criminal law laws, will remain in force, but at the same time I read in the documents that the Code of Criminal Procedure will be amended as a result of participation in the EPPO. Can we not then find ourselves in a situation where there is some sort of European EM component in the Code of Criminal Procedure, which will lead to a partial European criminal procedure within our own national code? Is that what this could lead to?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u97	No, this is not a European criminal justice directive. It's a European Public Prosecutor's Regulation. This is limited to the subjects covered by the Regulation. That would therefore mean that in future we would include in our legislation the description of, for example, the European Prosecutor, that sort of thing. But we are not going to amend our Code of Criminal Procedure to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u98	For the sake of clarity, it can be ruled out that European criminal law measures will be included in our national criminal law code, which will be harmonised in the EOM context. That is not what we are going to see in criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u99	Well, we really need to look that up with such a call, because I do not rule out the fact that in the past European criminal law rules have already been introduced into our Code of Criminal Procedure. I know that even almost certainly, but Mr Van Hattem's question focuses on the question of whether the EPPO regulation is also accompanied by a substantive change in all kinds of elements of the Code of Criminal Procedure. That is not true, as far as it is not described in the regulation. Mr Van Hattem knows the regulation. The review and legal protection, in response to Mrs Strik's question, as regards differences in procedural safeguards, are in principle carried out through the national legal system and within that national legal system. The EPPO shall facilitate the review by means of cross-border cooperation between EPPOs. This also promotes clarity and therefore legal protection for the court. Forum shopping by the EPPO has been mentioned as a risk, but in reality the facts and circumstances ultimately determine the prosecution. We shouldn't forget that. A number of speakers expressed concerns about the extension of powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u100	In this question, I had also asked about the progress made towards harmonization in terms of cooperation and the issue of criminal law. When is there a time when it is justified or perhaps desirable to further harmonise and streamline processual safeguards? At some point you should say: the more intensive cooperation, the more important it is that you know that the level of legal protection is also equal, in all Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u101	I answer this together with the question of the extension of powers. That requires unanimity. We are talking about an EOM directive and the fact that the cabinet says: we intend to join. As I have just said to Mr Van Hattem and Mrs Wezel, there is not even more substance in the matter of changing all kinds of things that are outside the directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u102	I was just checking. We're talking about a regulation, an EOM regulation, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u103	Sorry, yes, a regulation. We remain within the framework of that regulation at the moment. An extension of powers requires unanimity. It guarantees that Member States cannot be forced to cooperate with enlargement. Withdrawal from enhanced cooperation does not exist, but once again, there is the protection mechanism that enlargement can only be achieved if everyone participates. Whether we in the Netherlands in the future, i.e. you as a parliament with a cabinet sitting then, would consider bringing more harmonisation in criminal proceedings, as far as EU fraud is concerned, I honestly cannot foresee. I certainly cannot foresee whether in the future a cabinet and a parliament would say: we want to explore again very carefully, and that is also an answer to Mr Van Hattem, whether there should be another extension of the mandate. I honestly don't know. We have now reached a very strict agreement: we are only participating because we are dealing with this limited mandate for EU fraud, including VAT fraud. How this is going to develop depends on how the talks between government and parliament will develop in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u104	I'm not asking the Minister to look into the future either. I ask for a view from the Minister on when he thinks that further criminal cooperation should be parallel at some point to procedural harmonisation. I can imagine that the cabinet is developing a vision of when it is deemed desirable or not. So far, the cabinet has said that it doesn't think that's necessary. But the more intensive this cooperation becomes, the more difficult it will be if there are major differences between Member States. It becomes practically more difficult, but also substantive, because you do not have in time all the guarantees you would like with regard to the suspects and the lawyers. So it's not so much about whether you can predict it, it's about what you think. How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u105	I believe that a very important step has been taken by including in the coalition agreement as a joint intention that we should participate in the European Public Prosecutor's Office. I have outlined at the beginning that this has been a long road. I've only saved you one story that was proportionately long as that long way to describe how long. I think that now that we have taken this step, we need to monitor with each other in the EU whether the impact is really going to be such that by 2020 we will have a fully-fledged European Public Prosecutor's Office in the field of EU fraud. You may find that somewhat unambitious, I say through you to Mrs Strik, who I almost see think in such a cloud. But I absolutely think we should also say that this step has now been taken. I outlined at the beginning that it is really going to bring a lot of efficiency and other benefits in the fight against EU fraud and in ensuring that the legal systems in other Member States, where there may be enforcement problems, can be brought to a higher level. Let us, above all, work towards a good start in 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u106	Appreciate the fact that the Minister confines himself to this task, namely the fight against fraud involving EU funds. At the same time, he has already set the deadline for it to work by 2020. He says the subtle thing: but it is impossible to withdraw from a strengthened cooperation. I'm gonna ask him to reflect on that. Does it mean that the Netherlands is now forever attached to the EOM? Did I get that correctly? And how does he appreciate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u107	I don't really know if we're stuck with the EOM forever. That's a glass ball. Perhaps in the future the EU will see, and the Member States say, that the EPPO has not been the solution to combat EU fraud better. For the rest, I have emphasised that this is the mandate for the EPPO. If that were to be extended, it would have to be done unanimously. Today, but also on 7 March, I put my ear here and there to listen. It is quite clear that this is it, if I may put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u108	I also know Article 86 (4) of the Convention on the Functioning of the European Union. Indeed, there is a need for unanimity. However, I would ask the Minister to reflect on the fact that at the moment there is no procedure, no idea how it should be, if a country wants to stop enhanced cooperation. I would like to hear the Minister more about this and also about what that means for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u109	Of course, the coalition agreement takes account of the fact that it has been said on the one hand: listen, we see great benefits from that. That's one. And two: we can see that the moment is right there, so that Mr Rombouts' means of transport will come along to get on that moving train, otherwise we will be able to 'connect' at the back. It has been said that we must get in now. Until the time of final accession, the Netherlands could always say: we are not going to do it. But at the time when we are going to join other countries in 2020, once again: under this very narrowly defined limited mandate, we will participate in 2020. If all Member States say that they do not want to move forward with the EPPO, there will be a completely different plan in the future. But if we don't, we're gonna do this to each other. We just have to face that. Mrs Bikker is right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u110	As far as the extension of powers is concerned, the Minister is quite right to say that this can only be done if there is unanimity. What, according to the Minister, is the role of parliament? You are talking about a good discussion between the government and Parliament, but so far this Chamber has always had to take the initiative to talk to the government at all about this issue. So I do not share the self-evidentness with which there will be a discussion between government and parliament. Will the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u111	I find it difficult to fully endorse that view, Madam President. I have seen that my predecessor said con amore: I will return to your Chamber on this subject when a motion arises. I have to admit that I am distracting con amore from how it is formulated in the report. Suppose, I say very theoretically, that at some point part of society would say that we should look again to see if we should not do anything else. I think that that is such a fundamental constitutional point that this discussion will have to be as careful as the previous discussion on the EPPO, which really is, I think, as in the eightiest minute person, has been careful and extensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u112	I am asking this question because, for the debate we held on 6 December 2016, this Chamber had to very strongly invite the Minister to hold the discussion on this issue. The same applies to the debate we are having today. I would like to hear the Minister say: either way, at any time when there is any extension of the mandate, I always discuss it with Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u113	I would just like to point out that you are also failing my predecessor and therefore, in fact, myself. I know he apologized in December 2016, because, uh, can I put it that way? There was perhaps a somewhat overlooked state-law aspect. He has apologized for this and has entered into the conversation with your Chamber. I do not know better than that from the first moment that this subject was addressed to me, it was clear that there would be another conversation with the First and Second Chambers. I must confess that I do not know whether the invitation has been sent from you or that we have called: when should I be allowed to visit? But I know one thing for sure. I've always known the assignment to visit you, just like the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u114	I see Mrs Duthler nodding 'yes', but I now give the floor to Mr Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u115	In order to get it as specific as possible now as possible, not so much as there is a call from society or something else, the following. Can we now assume that if one of the participants in the EPPO is going to propose, for example, to extend the mandate and the government intends to do something about it, you will consult this Chamber first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u116	I am really going to have to say it in Dutch, of course, with all my heart, and my successors will certainly do the same, inform your Chamber and the House of Representatives when the situation is going to arise that a proposal to extend the mandate of the EPPO will be put on the agenda. As you have seen, I reported this to you in the letter. That's the letter from February 23rd. The current Commission has, somewhat beyond its own deadline, considered considering a mandate extension. I said in that letter on page 4 of the report, so that it was also written very clearly for the report: "The Commission, in line with President Juncker's State of the Union, announced in September 2017 in its 2018 work programme a Communication for this autumn on the possible extension of the mandate of the EPPO to combat terrorism. Such an enlargement could take place in the Commission's view in 2025. As far as the cabinet is concerned, there is no discussion on extending the mandate of the EPPO. It is much more important that the EOM is now properly equipped (...)." And so on. So I would like to emphasise once again very strongly that I believe that if enlargement of the mandate of the EPPO comes seriously on the EU's agenda, both chambers should be informed of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u117	Then Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u118	I would also like to thank the Minister for saying that. But we are already getting the JHA agenda, so that will be the issue. I am very glad that the Minister shares that view. I would like to say a little more precisely about those sentences on page 4, because there are the words 'I have just spoken to Mrs Duthler about 'first'. So what does the Minister think? Does he himself consider that this extension of powers is not at issue, as far as the Netherlands is concerned, and is that also the position of the Dutch Government, unless the Chambers change him, or is he otherwise in this competition?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u119	Maybe I haven't expressed myself clearly enough, but I really don't think that extending the mandate of the EPPO is the issue. Period. In that sense, the word "now" does not say. It says: "As far as the cabinet is concerned, there is no discussion about extending the mandate of the EPPO." Period. That is the point, and I fully support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u120	Well, Mr. Chairman. I'm very glad to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u121	Yeah, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u122	That's all gonna be in the second term in no time. I would like to continue with the words 'inform' and 'bring it up to date'. You indicate that you will inform the Chamber as soon as it comes on the agenda, that you are going to inform her with all your heart. How do you see the role of this Chamber in deciding whether or not to extend the mandate? Suppose at such a time this Chamber unanimously or by a simple majority says 'no, we are not in favour of such an extension of the mandate', what are you going to do? Are you going to abstain from extending the mandate or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u123	Let me put it this way. I believe that it should be submitted to your two chambers as soon as this is discussed. Period. Then it is up to your two chambers to set that up and discuss it. And what happens after that... I have to tell you, I hope you will forgive me for saying that in a previous profession I have always said to my students: if the apples had been pumpkins, we would never have invented the law of gravity. So I want to be very clear about this: I am not going to speculate on what comes out of your Parliament. I think that is also wrong, but I would like to tell you that I am going to inform you and then, if your Chambers so wish, we can discuss it immediately. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u124	My question is whether if this Chamber comes to the view that the extension of the mandate should not take place, you will go back to Brussels and say that the Netherlands is against extending the mandate. Your answer to this, even if it is a question of being a Dan, is crucial for my group's support for participation in the EPPO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u125	It has been a long time since I graduated from state law, a long time ago, but I really do not see myself going against the wishes of the parliamentary majority. Is that a clear answer, Madam President?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u126	Mrs. Duthler is having the discussion with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u127	It's a lot brighter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u128	Mr. Engels, you keep dribbling here and there. Do you have a question? No? He knows a lot about state law, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u129	Mr. Chairman. I do not know whether all this is allowed now, but I would like to say to Mrs Duthler as a post scriptum through you that I also repeat as a kind of tile wisdom that there is no discussion on extending the mandate of the EPPO as far as the cabinet is concerned. Some kind of "et ceterum censeo," I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u130	Then Mr. English.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u131	Just for a minute, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Duthler looks very happy now. I agree with the Minister that in fact, even in a state-law sense, you cannot anticipate a position taken by both Chambers. I thought that the essence of Mrs Duthler's contribution was to ensure that the Minister understands that the state-law situation with regard to European dossiers is such that the First Chamber has an independent position in it and that we do not have to ask for consultation or information at all. It must be clear that the Minister is also obliged to submit this to the Chamber on these points, if there is an extension of the mandate on the agenda. I can tell you that I do not need to hear from you what you are doing with an address in the Chamber, but the first is essential. We do not have to make agreements about it, because that is already inherent in the way traffic flows between the government and the First and Second Chambers. Do you agree, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u132	Yes, of course. We started this discussion with the question of whether, in the past or very recent past, this issue might not have been proactively brought to the attention of your Parliament, particularly of the First Chamber. I have seen that on 6 December 2016 I myself, in my capacity, I shall say, apologized for the fact that at that time it was not entirely state-owned 100% good. I have pointed out that this was different now and said again that, of course, Parliament is immediately informed. That goes before the point that if a parliamentary majority decides on this at any time, then it is quite clear that it is a democratic decision. I thought it would be a good idea to re-establish that point of information here. By the way, Mrs Bikker has already said that you will still have the agenda of the JHA Council, so perhaps my letter will be the proverbial mustard after the meal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u133	I heard the Minister say that the extension of the mandate is not on the agenda and that it should also be discussed in the First and Second Chambers as soon as it is discussed in the JHA Council. The question is, are we still going to go over it? If the other countries do want to extend the mandate, will it continue? Can this reservation be made when the Netherlands participates in the EOM?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u134	Enlargement must be a unanimous decision, so it is stated that it cannot be decided without us or without another Member State that would not want it. I would like to return, if that is all right with you, to the point of express agreement of the House of Representatives, to which Mr Van Hattem addressed me. On 2 March it was AO. There was broad support for the EPPO. There was one party, the SP, against accession. As a result of the AA, no votes have been requested and no motions have been tabled. It is part of the coalition agreement, so there is broad support from the House of Representatives. I need to see where I left off by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u135	Mr. Van Hattem would like to ask about this. Just one question about this, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. However, I find it strange to say that there has been an AA, there has been a detailed discussion of the whole JHA Council; if there is no request for a vote, then there is also agreement. That's actually a reversal of how we should work here. I find that a very strange argument from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u137	Mind if I cut in on that? If we have dealt with a legislative proposal here, I ask if anyone wants a vote and no one wants a vote, it will be accepted as adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u138	For the Acts, this is not a bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u139	I can't add anything to what I said before. I refer to my first-term response. There was another point. That is the question: what about the Italian judge when it plays in Germany? Article 37 provides that evidence obtained in another Member State is admissible in accordance with the national law of that Member State. The court shall then remain competent to assess that matter freely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u140	It is now the case that a request for legal aid is made and that the local, national courts check whether it takes place in accordance with national law. An Italian court or another court does not know the national law of another country. How is the legal status protected?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u141	I think it's because of what I just described.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u142	The Italian court does not know German law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u143	No, but that'll... It is true that a German judge will not know the national law of another country in general. So he's got some kind of freies Ermessen in there, but basically, according to German evidence law, it's assessed whether that evidence was admissible. The EOM's on the other side will, of course, have to answer for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u144	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u145	Yeah, last question. A judge must check whether the criminal proceedings have been properly conducted or whether the investigation has been lawful. The D.A. can say it's all done in accordance with the rules, but I don't call that legal protection. The judge should be able to test it, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u146	Okay, well, I'll take another look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u147	In second term. I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u148	Okay. Then I come to the Commission's efforts: by the end of 2020. I think Mr Rombouts had some concerns about that, but I think others have also expressed them. We are focusing on this, but there are still many things to be done, including that case management system, which Mrs Duthler clearly advocated. Rules should be laid down for the selection panel to advise on the appointment of candidates for the post of European Chief Prosecutor and European Prosecutors. A delegated act for the personal data that the EPPO may process is also being worked on. In this context, funding of the EPPO shall be involved in the Commission's proposal for the EU budget in 2019. In this context, the Commission has a committee of experts from the participating Member States advising on these and other issues. That committee met once, on 14 March last. The Netherlands was not present, pending the official notification that the Netherlands will participate in the enhanced cooperation. Then I have the question about the operational financial consequences for OM and Dutch investigative bodies. As I wrote in the letter, these implications are mainly in the expectation with the D.A. and with the FIOD. They currently map the consequences of Dutch participation in the EPPO by means of an impact analysis. The results will of course be involved in the implementation of the EMF Regulation, which will also entail some legislative changes, as stated in the letter of 23 February. This also applies to the analysis of the part of the proceeds of the EPPO's VAT receipts, fines and settlements................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As soon as more is known about the expected revenues and costs of the Dutch participation in the EOM, I will inform your Chamber and the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u149	Will these costs be borne by the current budget of the Minister of Justice and Security, or will additional financial space be created for participation in the EPPO? In other words, will there be a substitution of the allocation of financial resources or will there be additional financial resources?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u150	The discussion with the Minister of Finance will have to take place as to how this will eventually take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u151	I think that is a very unsatisfactory answer. We are awaiting an impact analysis, of which we do not yet know the outcome. It may be that this impact is quite large and that therefore a large amount is being seized on the capacity of the Public Prosecutor and the FIOD. If this is not compensated in any way, there is substitution. Then one task is exchanged for another and perhaps we leave some very important things to be desired. I would like a little more reflection on that point of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u152	I understand that Mr Engels then has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u153	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I read the letter of 23 February in such a way that the financial implications will be filled by a reallocation of resources within the EU budget. It also explicitly states that no additional contribution from the Netherlands is required. I understand from this letter that no efforts are needed from the Dutch budget. I'm getting a little confused right now, because what implications are we talking about here? Aren't we difficulating?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u154	It is not for me to take over that term, but I think that Mr Engels is right to point out that it would only be a small part, if that were the case, of the cost implications that it would have for the Netherlands. Let me see if in the second period I can indicate more precisely what might be left of things for the Netherlands after the coverage under the EU budget has taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u155	My question was not so much about the costs of the European apparatus, of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. My question concerned the costs it has for the Dutch apparatus, i.e. for the Dutch Justice budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u156	I understand. The question, as Mrs Duthler has put it, is whether part of the costs of a desk and a room and some of the things of the Dutch European Prosecutor is as symbolic as this one would still be for the Netherlands. But to that level of detail, I'll ask you in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u157	I would like to call on you to choose your souffleurs with a little more care, because I find it extremely unfortunate that we are confusing the device costs of the EOM and the seizure of our own OM and our own FIOD. You chose to have an impact analysis made of it. Then we can also assume that you already have some thoughts about what you have to do when it results in a heavy seizure of these organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u158	Well, I said that at the moment those effects are being carried out through an impact analysis. Of course, if I had one, I would have read it to you literally. However, you are right to say that it is right to give your Chamber more clarity on this point than the letter of 23 February shows. I'll do that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u159	Yes, because in addition to that financial impact, it has an impact on the detection capacity of the Dutch Public Prosecutor. I'd like to hear the Minister about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u160	I have already mentioned symbolically the room, a desk and that sort of thing, but that also applies, of course, to the question, which part of the person Netherlands would still have to wear himself. I have now, I believe, answered all the questions that came in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u161	I may be mistaken, but the SGP, and in my view several groups, had also asked a few questions about democratic control of the whole process of detection and prosecution. Nationally, this is very well regulated, but what about such a European Public Prosecutor? I believe that the Minister has not yet gone into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u162	There is an annual report and an annual report to the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u163	Mr. Van Dijk, you were done by now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u164	Excuse me, I was distracted. You pointed to the annual report, but can you...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u165	Through the chairman, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u166	Apologies, through the chairman. Can the Minister specify what this democratic control looks like with regard to detection and prosecution by a European Public Prosecutor? We know how it's nationalized and secured. But what about at European level?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u167	Well, the democratic guarantee at European level, through the European Parliament, is what it is, if I may say so. But, of course, the Dutch Parliament remains involved, from the fact that the Dutch court ultimately decides under Dutch law on cases brought by the EOM in respect of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u168	Yes, of course, the European Parliament is not a parliament like the Dutch Parliament, so I find that very difficult. But the Minister's answer is that the national parliaments are also ultimately responsible for democratic control of the European Public Prosecutor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u169	Wait a minute: let it be very clear that it is about the cases that the EOM brings to the Dutch courts under Dutch law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u170	In response to Mr Van Dijk's question just now, he asked about democratic control, on which the Minister comes with the interpretation of judicial review. But that is judicial control, which I consider to be something other than democratic control. I would like another reflection on the Minister's reply. And you are talking about control by the European Parliament, but not all European Member States are participating in this enhanced cooperation. So there will also be countries that do not even participate in it. So it's kind of a weird construction that way. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u171	Well, look, I'm gonna have to go back to what you said about the Dutch judge. I did not mean to say that the Dutch judge is here for democratic control. The Dutch court is there for the case-law under Dutch law. Then I'm talking about the business that's going on in the Netherlands. This still gives the Dutch Parliament the opportunity to comment on these matters, if it is considered appropriate. There is therefore an element of democratic control. Mr Van Dijk has already said that it is very difficult to say anything about the European Parliament when we talk about democratic control. Because I do not need to explain that this system is not congruent with our parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u172	Then we might end up in the very strange situation that, in view of the EU's ambitions, terrible ambitions for the PVV to join the European Union, we are talking about the Western Balkans and perhaps even Turkey on an evil day, which God forbid, that kind of country might even be able to carry out democratic control and get a big vote in the control of part of our detection and prosecution. And that would be a very special development.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u173	There I can reassure you, provided you find at least the Minister of Justice and Security a body sufficient to hold you accountable. You can, of course, call me to account at any time as a member of the JHA Council of Ministers on how you feel the EPPO is doing it. I am referring to the examples you mention that it does not go as it should in a particular country in the opinion of the Dutch Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u174	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u175	However, it remains strange that democratic control is primarily regulated by the presentation of the annual report to the European Parliament. In fact, as a national parliament, we are secondary in the line that we can address the minister. Isn't that a construction where we as a national parliament are really on the second plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u176	Well, you may, of course, invite the EPPO directly at any time to speak with the Dutch Parliament about the annual report or to answer for it. But in the end, I am the one who has to answer for what happens or does not happen within the framework of the EPPO within the Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u177	I understood that, on the contrary, the EPPO should be able to act completely independently and not be controlled by politics. This is also apparent from the fact that the chief prosecutor cannot be dismissed by the political authorities. It must be accountable to the European institutions every year, but that does not mean that they can be controlled by those institutions. That's how I've always understood it. My question to the Minister was correct: doesn't the Minister really think that this is a very good solution in this case? Because if you could send the European Public Prosecutor's Office from European politics, you would indeed not know which way that could ever be sent again. Because there are indeed countries that you wouldn't want to put that power into your hands immediately. So my conclusion was a little bit: perhaps this complete independence for this European Public Prosecutor's Office is a very good solution. My question was: does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u178	Good thing you are asking this question, because then I can ensure that we remove the confusion between the political responsibility regarding what the Netherlands thinks should happen over time with the EPPO on the one hand and functional independence on the other. You also know that when it comes to national prosecutors, for example, the Minister of Justice does not deal with individual matters, simply because otherwise the course of justice would be influenced on one side or on the other. That's out of the question. But once again, apart from inviting the EPPO to enter into direct contract with you in order to explain the annual report, you can address me as a minister within the JHA Council on what happens or does not happen to the EPPO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u179	In addition to what Mr Ten Hoeve asked. Isn't the distinction between the National Prosecutor and the European Public Prosecutor the following? There are indeed opportunities to ask for accountability in general terms, both from the European Parliament and from us through the Minister. At national level, the Minister has an appointment authority. If a lead is given, it will also be sent to Parliament. It is precisely at the occasional level that there is some kind of democratic control, whereas it is generally functioning here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u180	This power of designation should ultimately be exercised through the JHA Council. If at some point a number of parliaments of Member States consider that far too little is being done about VAT carousel fraud, to name but a few, that is a point where one can address one's own minister to bring it into the JHA Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u181	This raises the question of whether there is a European designation power from the JHA Council. I didn't think that one was on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u182	No, there isn't. But of course you can check at some point whether the organ does the things that are in the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u183	I understand from the Minister... Ah, that's where Mr. Ten Hoeve comes running. I understood that the Minister had already said that he had finished answering the questions in the first period. Mr. Ten Hoeve, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u184	Now I understand what the Minister means by that. The EPPO shall be accountable to the European Parliament and the Commission, as well as to the Council. The Council has, of course, the opportunity to comment on the overall functioning of the EPPO. As far as you want to regard that as political control, there is certainly that possibility. On what was just being discussed: there is no such power of direction, I think. So a very direct direction is impossible from the political point of view. That seems to me to be the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u185	No, but that's very clear. We need to see this again in the light of the very targeted and limited mandate of the EPPO.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u186	I see that the Minister has come to the end of the first-term response. One question remains. I noted in my speech that I would have found it best to have had an opinion from the Council of State on this point. I am very curious to know what the Minister thinks of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u187	At some point it has been established for good reasons that a majority of parties believe that we are going to join the EPPO. Again, for good reasons. That happens with the restriction that I have repeated a few times; let that be very clear. I do not see any substantive reason for asking the Council of State for further advice on this, apart from the question of whether this is a procedural issue. I really have to say that I think the motives to do it are clear. There was an extensive exchange of views with both Chambers of Parliament under two cabinets. Then we must be able to say to each other that after this long process we can now take this step.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u188	Once again, I understand that you have terminated your response in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u189	Except for one point, which I will come back to in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u190	You will return to that in the second term. Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. Mrs. Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u191	Mr. Chairman. My group needs a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u192	I'll take a look around. It turns out to me that this is an agreement. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u193	We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the PVV, it was clear from the beginning: we should not and should never want this European Public Prosecutor's Office; we should not start it at all. There is too much uncertainty about certain matters. We have already discussed the analysis of the impact on the Public Prosecutor and the FIOD, because the impact is not yet clear. That will, of course, continue to work in the further implementation. What also worries me is the rather messy process with which this is brought about. When I hear a minister say 'we have the consent of the House of Representatives' when that assent has been very unclear, I wonder if this is still a good democratic process. It is the story of "who has not objected is deemed to have agreed." It is a bit like the Act of Active Organ Donation, which applies the same kind of reasoning. That does not seem to me to be a good way of working for a parliamentary democracy. However, I would like to make it clear how the Minister sees this about parliamentary assent. Is it sufficient to exchange views with both Chambers without any clarity as to what a Chamber wants or does not want? This is still completely unclear in this case. What is the specific mandate that now exists on the basis of this exchange of views with both Chambers? There is a reference to the coalition agreement, but it really only states that the moment when accession may take place will be determined. There is a condition for the principle of opportunity. I still find it very doubtful whether that condition has been properly fulfilled in this way. In fact, as far as I am concerned, that condition has not been fulfilled, because the Dutch Public Prosecutor can still be passed by the EOM. That is why our national sovereignty has simply been stripped to the bone. Then I come to one of my greatest objections at the moment: the fact that we are entering one-sidedly and cannot leave if the Netherlands were to step into this enhanced cooperation. It's kind of the Hotel California of the Brussels Eurocrats: you can never leave. It's just that we all really shouldn't want this. The Minister does say that there are sufficient safeguards in it and that an extension of the mandate requires unanimity, but there can be many more things to be said about why we, as the Netherlands, would eventually want to get out of it, if we were to step into it as far as we are concerned, so that is not necessary. The reasons could be that the costs are too high, that there are very undesirable judicial developments, that the efficiency results are disappointing, and that the Minister goes on to say that they are going to be there, and above all that there is far too much transfer of sovereignty. Again, the missing possibility of getting out is really a crucial point. We really want to be clear about this. How can the Minister invent to step into such a construction that you can never get out of and in which you can only go further, further on a sliding scale of more EU and less Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. As far as PVV is concerned, the starting point is really: we choose our national sovereignty and we choose the Netherlands and not the EU. So stop with this EOM. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u195	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I call Mrs Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his comprehensive response. As a result of his response, I do have a number of questions. The first point. I heard the Minister say that an EOM has added value that gives an insight into what is going wrong in those countries. In this way, the fight against fraud in these countries can be raised to a higher level. Best practices can be determined. It provides a better view of what is happening in those countries where, for example, VAT fraud is committed. So what's the EOM gonna do with that? Are they gonna train detectives, prosecutors and judges in those countries? What means does the EU have to increase the fight against fraud? Is that what these countries are waiting for? And what measures can the EU or the EPPO take if there is a breeding ground for EU fraud in a country? My second question concerns the right of evocation. Suppose an OM did a multi-annual investigation into VAT fraud, or is doing so, and this investigation has cost many millions. And let's say the EOM uses his evocational rights and takes over the case. There is now a system of compensation between countries. Does it also apply to evocation? Then there is the third point. I would like to hear a response from the Minister to the question of what law the judge will review if investigations have been carried out in other European countries. Or is it intended that when a case is brought before an Italian court, the investigative measures are carried out under Italian law and in accordance with Italian law? In the case of requests for legal aid, the national court shall review them. In my view, this proposal will lapse. Then there's the fourth point. I would like to have an answer to the question as to whether the EPPO provides an extension of the judiciary. Question 5 is whether the Minister would like to go into the questions on democratic supervision and explain them further. Then there's the last question. The SP and the Animal Party have asked the government to ensure that the participation of the Netherlands in the European Public Prosecutor's Office is not at the expense of the national FIOD/surveillance, prosecution and trial capacity. The Minister made no commitment on this point. The political groups of the SP and the Animal Party consider that participation in the EPPO should not be at the expense of national detection, prosecution and trial capacity. For this reason, the SP and the Party for the Animals submit the following motion. It was also signed by other parties. The President shall: Mr Wezel, Mr Koffeman, Mr Ruers, Mr Postema, Mr Baay-Timmerman, Mr Diederik van Dijk, Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Köhler proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Government intends to allow the Netherlands to participate in the European Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[Whereas joining the European Public Prosecutor's Office requires the Netherlands to make FIOD/investigative, prosecution and judicial capacity available to and for the European Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[Considering that the EU regulation does not demonstrate the extent of the European Public Prosecutor's appeal to the Dutch FIOD/surveillance, prosecution and trial capacity, nor that the use of capacity is limited;]] [[Whereas the FIOD/surveillance, prosecution and trial capacity available to the Netherlands is limited;]] [[Considering that there is already considerable financial and organisational pressure on the FIOD/tracking authorities, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the case-law and increasing that pressure is not desirable;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the participation of the Netherlands in the European Public Prosecutor's Office is not at the expense of the national FIOD/surveillance, prosecution and trial capacity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33709-AG]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the first period, however, I made it clear that the SGP is critically pre-sorted when it comes to participating in the EPPO. I have to say, unfortunately, that the answer did not really change my mind, in order to put it mildly. It struck me, in fact, that the Minister was so explicit in thinking about what a long process has already preceded this EOM. I have to say, however, that the most obvious questions cannot even be answered in concrete and precise terms. What does that say about this trial? A number of points have been mentioned by the previous speaker. I agree with that. I explicitly mention the questions about democratic control, but also the impact on the finances and human capacity of the Dutch judiciary. These are all very obvious questions. How can we or not agree to participate in an EPPO without having a clear answer to those questions? For the rest, the risks mentioned above remain, such as the risk of the'salami tactics', as the so eloquence was described by my VVD colleague. The most important thing for the SGP, however, is that participation in the European OM once again means a loss of sovereignty for the Netherlands, and that still in the field of criminal law, a point that in the past also weighed very heavily for the coalition parties VVD, CDA and ChristenUnion. In any case, as far as the SGP is concerned, the tar has not yet been thrown and we do not cross this Rubicon. The SGP will therefore not agree to the participation of the Netherlands in the European OM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u198	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u199	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the answers. Sometimes they were enlightening, sometimes a little confusing, I have to say honestly. I am still awaiting an answer on a number of other points that I have raised. I would therefore like to repeat those questions on which I think I have not received enough information. Prior to that, I have to say that I find it rather special that the Minister makes a very clear statement: it is very logical that the Chambers had previously resisted or expressed an objection to subsidiarity, because at that time the proposal was not good either. I do remember that the government itself wanted to participate in December 2016. So I wonder if the current minister is looking at this differently than the minister of the past. Among other things, I asked a question about the enforcement deficit in a number of Member States. The Minister indicated that the EOM is also right to remove that enforcement deficit or at least to improve its level there. I had asked what further investments the EOM or the JHA Council is going to make in these countries, because there are, of course, a lot of factors involved in an enforcement deficit in order to actually raise that level there. I think you should do more than just install an EOM. I would have asked if the Minister could explain the most significant differences between enhanced cooperation and a full-fledged EOM, particularly in the institutional sense. Think of accountability, democratic control or other elements that may be different from a full EU framework. In response to a question that has already been asked: what about, for example, the European Parliament, where MEPs from non-participating Member States are present, especially in the event of an extension of powers, which guarantees the right of assent of the EP? Does this apply to the whole of the EP, or only to MEPs coming from participating countries? I hope that the Minister will be able to explain the difference between this enhanced cooperation and a full-fledged EOM. Perhaps the Minister could also remove the confusion as to whether or not there is a power of designation. My impression is that it does not exist, but the Minister has just given the impression that something can be said about priorities and the like within the JHA Council. So I would like to get an explanation of that too. I would also like to know when the financial impact analysis that has been carried out will be clear when we get the results and how it relates to the current process of expressing the intention and thus of already taking that path. Finally, I had also asked a question in the context of the reluctance to extend the EPPO with the fight against terrorism. I support this reluctance, but in that context I have asked what the JHA Council is doing to improve cooperation between Member States in the fight against terrorism, because we see every time that there are shortcomings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u201	Thank you, Madam President. I think there are some amazing aspects to this debate. I would like to associate you with that, also because I have no further questions to the Minister. I found the letter of 23 February in itself crystal clear at the stage in which we are now in, but I note that, as a result of a number of interventions by colleagues here in the Chamber, the misunderstandings in the Minister's response seem to have increased rather than the Minister's reaction leading to fewer misunderstandings, which would have been convenient for me. I am referring in particular to his reaction to speculation about a possible extension of the mandate of the EPPO. The cabinet does not feel that way at the moment, but it is being sucked into the discussion on what should happen if enlargement is to be discussed. On the other hand, I did not think that the Minister's answers on the financial implications were becoming clearer. For this reason I am a little concerned that the support for the Dutch participation in the EOM does not seem to be directly increased, which I would also regret very much. I therefore hope that in the second term the Minister will be able to clarify a number of pressing points that have been raised here. I understand some of them and some of them do not, but the Minister has responded adequately to them. All this does not alter the fact that my group will continue to support participation in the EPPO. One motion has now been tabled. As far as there were any more coming, you never know...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u202	Two motions have been tabled. There is also a motion from the PVV, which has already been tabled in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u203	Oh, yes, for incomprehensible reasons, it had slipped my mind for a moment, but I will give the opinion on this after reflection in the group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u204	Thank you, Mr. English. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. However, on a number of points, my group still needs a more detailed answer in order to arrive at the clarity that we need in order to make our final assessment. That's why I'm going to ask these questions some staccato. The model of enhanced cooperation will now be chosen. Mr Strik already asked relevant questions about this. I would like to add: can the Minister really reflect on the fact that there are no exit criteria? He writes in several places that he thinks it is very important to see if it works in 2020 and if it is what we intended, but if I understand him correctly, if we say we are going to participate, it is no longer possible to get out of this enhanced cooperation. What about when the evaluation comes in five years? Is that not also a reason for the Minister to develop an agenda in this particular area and to discuss it with countries as well? I'd like to hear him on that. Then the finances. The impact analysis is not yet known. Colleagues have already asked when it is known. I found in the BNC sheet in 2013 the remark that the cases that are charged for the Netherlands are therefore the normal police officers conducting investigations, the prosecution and what happens there and so on and so on are the responsibility of the relevant policy department. When did the Minister confess to impact analysis? What happens if the impact is much greater than he expects? Can he at least indicate with a bandwidth what his expectation is and how it will be captured? I would also like to hear from the Minister what this means for national detection capacity in relation to the current situation. Does that capacity change or will it remain the same? I like to hear clear words about that. With regard to the extension of competence, the Minister has said as clearly and clearly as possible that this is not the case. In the letter to which he refers, that is indeed a very good sentence, but in the following sentence it says: "but then we will also see how we can first put into effect the current EOM, as it has now been proposed, in a good way." That 'first time' meant that I expressed doubts on behalf of my group in the first term. I hope the Minister will understand that, but I hope that even more so, I think it is more important that he should stand for 'that is not the issue'. If we look at this whole process, which has taken a very long time, my group finds it complicated that strictly formal consent from the States-General and also from this Chamber is not required for such a step. There's something wrong with that. I'd like to hear the Minister on that. Now the Chamber, also through this debate, has taken the initiative. I also expect a motion from Mr Duthler on this point, which will deal with further decisions, but for me it is the consideration that these are debates for the future that we must say the Chamber should simply be involved in. The Minister will not want it any different either, otherwise he will be flogged back at a time that is very unpleasant for him. Can he say a little more about democratic control on this point? I agree with the questions put by GroenLinks and the SGP. There are now two motions before us. The motion of the PVV begins with "heard the debate" which, given the moment of filing, I think is a special term. We are waiting for the further debate on this. With regard to Mr Wezel's motion, I think it is very important what the Minister has to say about the impact analysis. So I would also like to hear the Minister on that point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u206	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I give the floor to Mrs Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u207	Thank you very much, Madam President. I thank the Minister for his answers to the questions raised in the first term. My group, too, really needs further clarification, in particular on the issues that weigh quite heavily on my group. You will not be surprised that one of these subjects is the extension of the mandate, the extension of powers. I do not need to read and interpret the letter of 23 February again. I also read that an evaluation will be carried out before an amendment can be discussed. Then I thought, "So it could be discussed." In addition, the Minister has said several times: we are not in favour of this at all, but if we do, we will have a good conversation with both Chambers; we will inform you and we will inform you. My group does not share the Minister's view that the government will not agree to an extension of the mandate if the Chamber takes a negative position on it. That is why my group wishes to table the next motion. The President shall: Mr Duthler, Mr Knip, Mr De Bruijn-Wezeman, Mr Bikker and Mr Schouwenaar proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Cabinet intends to announce to the Council and the European Commission that the Netherlands will participate in a European Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[Whereas this does not automatically open the door to further extension of the powers of a European Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[Whereas the European Council, acting unanimously, should take a decision on the possible extension of the mandate of the EPPO following the assent of the European Parliament and consultation of the Commission;]] [[whereas this requires the express agreement of the Netherlands;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber of the results of the evaluation foreseen for 2025 and to consult the Chamber of Appeal on any possible extension of the mandate of the EPPO at any time in the future and prior to decision-making in the European Council first and not to give its assent if the Chamber takes a negative position,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33709-AH]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u208	I have a question for Mr Duthler, of course, through the chairman. In that case, can we assume that, if the government wants to talk to us about enlargement of the mandate, for example, your own group will then consider it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u209	Sure. At that time, we shall once again consider the matter. Our group is not against extending the mandate in advance. We will review that at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u210	Has Mrs Duthler not heard what the Minister has said on this point? He has said that he knows his state law well and that a parliamentary majority is significant to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u211	The Minister said that a parliamentary majority is significant and that he will enter into a discussion with Parliament, but my group needs a clearer answer. It wants to hear from the Minister that he will not support further extension of the mandate if this Chamber may, perhaps, take a negative view on it. You see this motion as an instrument to keep the finger on the wrist. That's the bottom line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u212	I understand that finger on Mrs Duthler's wrist for a year and a half. I was there in December 2016. That finger on the wrist is a very firm one; also for the minister's predecessor. For me, it goes a long way, but we might have to talk about that another time. But then I have a comment to make to you, Madam President. With motions from this Chamber or from any parliamentary body, such as a city council or provincial states, a government or a college can do three things: take over and therefore carry out, resign or perform half or slightly modified.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u213	"Accommodements avec le bon Dieu" is called.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u214	Yes, it is. I understand you. There is not a word of French in that, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u215	But I think it is up to the game between government and parliament to wait and see. Let's get it one, that motion. Let it be decided and then let the government have the opportunity to make its position on it. But to record here in advance in a 'as-danmotion' 'we're going to do this and that and then you have to do this and that', I think it's going very far at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u216	You can vote on the motion next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u217	Yeah, I guess so. It would be a repetition of moves. I take the view of the CDA Group on this point for notification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u218	Were you finished with your second term contribution? Not yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u219	No, not yet. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u220	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u221	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. In addition, my group, like other political groups, needs to see the costs of participation and the impact of that participation on the Dutch Justice Budget and on the capacity of the FIOD, the Public Prosecutor and the judiciary. My group also agrees with the questions put by Mr Bikker on this point. With regard to the issue of democratic control and political responsibility for the public prosecutor, my group would also like to have an answer to the question of how this is done. Madam President. At the start of this debate, my group was inclined to support participation in the EPPO. However, I have to say that the answer to the questions by the Minister in the first term did not strengthen that tendency. The reply of the Minister in the second term will therefore really determine the position that my group will ultimately take on this dossier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u222	Thank you, Mrs Duthler. Mr. Van Hattem. Mrs. Duthler, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u223	Oh, I thought Mr. Van Hattem got the floor. He gets that, too, but in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u224	Yes. I've already had my second term, so... I have another question about the motion. You write: "calls on the government to inform the Chamber of the results of the evaluation, which is foreseen for 2025." Isn't that very far in the future? Does this motion have any power of expression?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u225	That's from the letter in question on February 23rd. In it, the Minister announced, even on that same page 4, that an evaluation was foreseen in 2025 and that he would first wait for the results of that evaluation before considering a possible extension of the mandate. That's where it's coming from. No evaluation will take place in 2020. At least, as far as I've been informed by the Minister, I don't know. But she's scheduled for 2025. That is not surprising either, because the main prosecutor still needs to be wondered and the device still needs to be installed. So there is still a lot to be done before the EPPO is finally operational.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u226	But then what is the power of expression of this motion? All these things do need to be taken care of. However, if you are going to agree to participate in the EOM at the end of the day, there is no going back. We just heard: it's just in and out. Which exit does this motion offer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u227	What is now in the pipeline is the creation of a limited-term EM, namely the fight against fraud involving EU funds. My group is not against that in itself. However, my group is reluctant to see the mandate extended ever further after the establishment of the EPPO. It is not, therefore, a question of establishing the EPPO with this limited mandate. It is a question of the possible extension of powers. One of my fellow Members, I think, was Mrs Wezel, who was talking about self-riding baking flour.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u228	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u229	It's all nice and nice, but once you're in it, you're stuck with it. It might be nice to look back in 2025 and then assess whether the right step has been taken, but at the moment you are going into the EOM with two legs. It's not like you're gonna be able to go back. In this respect, it remains a step towards "more Brussels and less power for the Netherlands'. That's what the VVD chooses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u230	Once again, I repeat: this is a limited mandate. In principle, it is equally dependent on the Minister's answer to the questions. The extension of the mandate is not currently on the agenda, but it can be done in the future. On that point, my group really wants to keep its finger on the wrist, even though it may be a firm finger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u231	Thank you, Mrs Duthler. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u232	Mr. Chairman. Although the first term has been somewhat confusing here and there, I still feel that I have enough clarity. I also received them from the Minister's answers, for which I am grateful. There are still a lot of questions to ask on this subject. That is what is happening in this second round, and indeed staccato. There are two jumping points, which always come forward and which also played the biggest role in the first round. With regard to the extension of the mandate, the Minister says that this is not the issue. That conclusion seems clear to me. This is not the case for a number of reasons. If anything ever changes, it can only be done by unanimity of the Member States. It does not seem impossible to me at all, in itself, to exclude the possibility that at some point the Dutch Parliament will agree to the extension of its term of office. In so far as the Dutch Parliament does not do so at the time when it is being discussed, I think that the conclusion reached by the Minister and proposed in Mrs Duthler's motion, namely that the government adheres to Parliament's statements, is obvious. Only, of course, there may also be nuanced circumstances where one Chamber feels differently from the other. Yeah, then there's a little more freedom of decision for the government. The second jumping point is that of costs. It is not quite clear at the moment what costs or efforts will be required from the Netherlands on its own account. In principle, if the prosecution is requested by the prosecution, or if the prosecution itself does so, the costs will be borne by Europe. However, there may also be some costs and efforts, such as staffing, which we ourselves bear. That is still being examined, and it is difficult for us to oblige the Minister to put these figures on the table now, because they are not yet available. The problem is that we actually need these figures, but there is also, as far as I am concerned, a need to announce now that we do want to participate in the EPPO. So there's a tension between that's not soluble right now. I think Mrs Wezel's motion provides a solution to this. In any case, let us note that if it costs us extra, it must not be at the expense of the FIOD's own commitment, for our own business and with our own priority. That is why I wish to endorse Mrs Wezel's motion. I believe that this has created sufficient safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u233	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. I give the floor to Mr Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u234	Mr. Chairman. As indicated, my group is in favour of a European Public Prosecutor's Office to combat fraud involving EU funds, including VAT carousel fraud. We were at the end of 2016 and we still are. In fact, as a society and as Chambers of States-General, we have missed opportunities in terms of the design and location of the EOM. I thought that the Minister could also be heard in the first place as regards regret. I must also note that the answer given by the Minister to many of the questions raised by this House has been unsatisfactory for the time being, let me put it this way. Fortunately, there is also a second term for the Minister. We will listen carefully to his answers. Fortunately, there is also something like the instrument of the motion. We are co-signatory of Mr Wezel's motion, because for us it is essential that the seizure by the European Public Prosecutor's Office of the FIOD and the Public Prosecutor should not be at the expense of other activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u235	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u236	Mr President, excuse me. I'm forgetting something important. In the debate in December 2016, as indicated in the first term, a motion was tabled by Mr Schrijver, in part No. 33709, with the letter X. In view of today's debate, I would like to withdraw that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u237	Since the motion-writer c.s. (paragraph ) has been withdrawn, it shall no longer matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u238	Madam President. I, too, would have liked to thank the Minister for the answers to my questions, but I did not get the message that the meeting would start half an hour earlier. I was across the street in political consultation with the House of Representatives and I was back here for five hours. Don't worry about it. It can happen. I've got two more things. I hope that the Minister will succeed in answering the political groups which still have unanswered or insufficient answers in the second term. I would ask the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to look again at the operative part of the motion that has just been passed until Tuesday. Of course, a government will do the first thing in the operative part: inform the Chamber about an evaluation. That's always possible, no problem. It concerns the second part of that operative part. Why would you put those two things together in one operative part at all? But the content goes much further. It says: the Chamber must be consulted and the government must not give its assent to an extension of the mandate if the Chamber takes a negative view. I would like to see that held against a state-law background in the next week. In VVD circles you have a lot of good state law teachers. I doubt whether we should do that in such a way that you already say: then, then you shouldn't...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u239	Let me get this straight, but perhaps this is a question of the familiar way in which you say: if that evaluation is taken out, do I still think it is a sympathetic operative part?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u240	No, not at all. If you asked for evaluation, I would say that I could convince my group that we should agree to it. But on the second part, I think I have already made it quite clear in the case of interruption: I do not think we should want this kind of motion here, which you say in advance, if there is an extension of a mandate, we do not even know what, that you are going to do what the First Chamber says. I think that the Minister should be allowed to go to the Council of Ministers and think for himself about what to do with such a ruling by the Chamber. Then there are three possibilities: whether to honour such a statement, or not to honor it, or slightly adapted with beautiful French terminology.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u241	Maybe I can tell Mr Rombouts that participation in the EPPO is a huge step for my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u242	That's what I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u243	It is not surprising, of course, that you want to make sure that this limited mandate is respected. That is another thing that my group can say: okay, reluctantly. But my group would like to keep an eye on it when it is being extended. Perhaps you can also move a bit in the context of the formation of this operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u244	Madam President, I would like to express my understanding of this. I really understand that you say: if we have to take the step to go with this EOM now, as it stands, then we want to know something about the future. I understand that, but to say 'whatever proposals for enlargement of the mandate will ever be made', because that is what it says, 'you must now say that the will of the First Chamber is law'. I really think that's going too far. I can imagine that you will look at that sentence again and, above all, want to make it clear that it is really not the intention to extend that mandate within a short space of time. In fact, I would like to put a question here about that EOM, which actually wrongly bears that name. I do not know whether the Minister has just answered my question as to whether that name should be retained. It has become a weakened anti-fraud service. Would we, as the First Chamber, wish to assign the task of combating terrorism at all? I can't imagine that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u245	Then it is very nice, when it is on the agenda, that we are going to discuss it, but I would also very much like to hear the Minister's answer on this subject in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u246	Whatever the case, Madam President, I repeat that we would like to see the EOM, perhaps under a different name.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u247	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. I understand the Minister would like a 15-minute suspension. Is that enough? Yes. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 7:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u248	Ladies and gentlemen. We're moving on. I call the Minister for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u249	Madam President. Thank you. I shall take the points from each speaker and then discuss the three motions for resolutions, but they will also be dealt with in the debate, indirectly. I will start with Mr Van Hattem, but I will come straight to Mrs Bikker. It was about the one-sided step in and what the exit criteria are. I would like to make it clear once again, in so far as it has not been said correctly or not clearly in the first instance, that it is up to me to say that this is the right legislative measure of the Union to which we can subscribe in this enhanced cooperation. So you have a situation where you can join this public prosecutor with fewer than all Member States. This also means entering into this very limited mandate. Only if the EU says that this OM is not working can the EU legislator, ultimately the Council of Ministers, when I am talking about the Council, in this case I am really talking about the Council of Prime Ministers. Then there is Mr Van Hattem's question about the democratic process. I believe that at first I made it clear that I wrote to both Chambers with this letter. We have had a general discussion on this in the House of Representatives. There has been agreement from the House of Representatives and no motions or other proposals for derogations or any other direction have been tabled. I shall of course return to Mr Van Hattem's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u250	I can't stop thinking it's weird. The Minister states that there have been no motions or abnormal noises. Does it then apply to any policy on which no motion is tabled that it should be adopted automatically, without any vote or anything else taking place? It has now really been put at a disadvantage in an AA on a JHA Council, in which many other subjects were also discussed. If no or insufficient critical sounds were heard there, is support supposed? My question was also what mandate will be given. Is that the mandate, as set out in the coalition agreement, to establish, at a certain point, possible accession under the conditions set out, or is it something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u251	The mandate given, as far as the mandate is concerned, is, in any case, the intention, as set out in the coalition agreement, which was very detailed in the letter, as you received on 23 February. That is what the government has clearly stated. It also makes it quite clear that there is no question of extending the mandate as far as the cabinet is concerned, as I pointed out both against Mrs Bikker and Mrs Duthler in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u252	Explicit agreement, which the Minister is now suggesting, and he is always talking about consent, there can be no question of that either, because there has been no vote, so there has been no agreement. The fact that there may have been no objections at the time of the AO does not mean that it has also been accepted. I therefore find it somewhat dubious to put this forward in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u253	I have yet to speak on the third motion. I will come back to this point, but the procedure has been completed, as it was laid down in the law of 11 July 2008. I'm coming to see Mrs. Wezel. What is the EOM going to do with regard to training? The EPPO will train investigators in the European Judicial Training Network. She also asked about the compensation scheme. This is provided for in Article 91 (5) of the Regulation, on the basis of which there is indeed a possibility that the public prosecutor may be reimbursed for costs incurred in connection with an investigation already carried out. Mrs Wezel asked another question about the protection of the law and the court of law. I hope this time I'll explain it really clearly. The court judge shall assess the entire file. In the example mentioned by Mrs Wezel, the Italian court would assess the whole file. In doing so, he must rely on the Deputy Prosecutor. That is also the one who has to provide proof that if there has been a search in Germany, there has been action in accordance with the German investigation rules. The court has the power to ask the local German court for an explanation under German law. Mrs Wezel also asked whether the EOM would result in an extension of the judiciary. If that question refers to whether additional judges should be called upon, that is not necessarily the case. There will certainly not be a European judge in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u254	What I mean is that the Law on the Judicial Organisation regulates who belongs to the judiciary. Those are the judges, and that's the D.A.'s office. Will a heading three be added, the European Public Prosecutor, because it is autonomously competent to detect and prosecute in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u255	At least I announced a change of law in the first period. In any event, it will come about as a result of accession to the EPPO, if it is clear how this is being worked out. I do not rule out that I have also said in the first term that the position of the EOM officer is to be appointed separately. It is legally probable that this will be designated separately in the law. Is that enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u256	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u257	Mr Van Dijk had a question about the democratic process within the EU. I'll connect that with some of Mrs. Strik's questions. The democratic process in the EU is accountable to the European Parliament as a whole. The European Parliament is also made up of members of political groups. This responsibility also takes place in the direction of the Council and the Commission. For the rest, I would like to look at Mr Van Dijk, who can still be discussed with this minister about how the Dutch Parliament thinks the EOM is working. I did say that in the first period, but I am sorry if that did not work out well: there is no designation of the EPPO. I'm gonna go to the finance department, the financial impact analysis. I'm about to tell you the plot of my reaction to one of the motions. I am going to announce that I am about to adopt Mrs Wezel's motion on capacity. In that motion I was asked to ensure that this was not at the expense of the capacity of national detection. Yeah, I'm gonna give it some formal advice later, but why am I telling you now? Mr Engels was right to point out in the first time that the impact is ultimately small. I wrote that in the letter to the Chamber. We're talking 30 cases a year, that's the estimate. I checked it for the niceness on the site, but there are also a lot of traffic cases and other things. The district attorney's office handles over 100,000 cases a year. Now these are not all matters of such magnitude as the VAT carousel fraud case, but it is clear that these are, first and foremost, a small number of cases. Why do you need such an impact analysis? Because some of those cases, let's say half of them, are already being done by the Dutch Public Prosecutor. That might be doubled later, let's take that for a second, from the EOM. That means that you are again freeing capacity, equally theoretical and abstract, at the Dutch prosecutor, because the officer who is now doing the 15 business, who will not have to do it anymore. Soon, of course, capacity will be needed for those 30 items from the EOM. I stress that it is also stated in the letter, but I really want to reassure you that the remuneration of the Dutch European Prosecutors and the European Delegated Prosecutors falls within the budget of the European Prosecutors' Office. Each time acting in the context of the EPPO, the expenditure of the European Delegated Prosecutors associated with those tasks shall be considered to be operational expenditure of the EPPO. The Netherlands will have to bear the costs of the investigation and the costs of the trial in the Netherlands not covered by the EOM budget. Please note that "one" trial in the Netherlands must be carried out. So there is little financial impact, and I want to make a very clear commitment to this by adopting Mrs Wezel's motion later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u258	Thank you for doing that. That's very nice. I'd like to supplement something. Those FIOD cases say it's only about 30. I myself have been working on investigations that at least 100 FIOD men have been working on and that a man or six officers have been working on for years, and that was only one investigation. In functional parquet cases, the officers have a number of investigations in progress, but they are sometimes so large that one case is not entirely comparable. My question is this. It is said that Dutch officers do not do these things and can therefore do other business again. I understand that it is now the intention of the EOM officers to focus in particular on the EU grant cases and that the Dutch officers simply continue to conduct the Dutch fraud investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u259	Yeah, absolutely. There should be no misunderstanding about that. That is outside the mandate of the EPPO. Mrs Strik asked if I could say something about what we are doing about cooperation in the field of terrorism. She also asked whether we would continue to invest in the enforcement deficit in a number of Member States. On the first point, within the JHA Council there is a leading group CT, counter-terrorism, which meets regularly and deals with a number of issues in a smaller group. In this context, there is cooperation against terrorism. As an example, this CT head group has initiated conversations with the Internet companies in order to achieve the full removal of terrorist content sites. There is now further discussion of further cooperation with these Internet companies. There is also cooperation within the CT head group on other topics. In itself, I have no objection to this, but that is quite apart from this debate, once again I would like to inform your Chamber of what we are dealing with at the moment, if you would appreciate it. On the enforcement deficit in a number of Member States: The Netherlands is one of the countries that most strongly advocate the very clear legal functioning of the Member States and of their systems within the EU. In this respect, I have also had a number of initial talks with the incoming EU Presidency to see if this issue can be placed more prominently on the agenda of the JHA. In any case, this is also in support of the recent steps taken by Commissioner Timmermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u260	Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u261	Thank you, Mr President, also a little bit about the proper functioning of the rule of law. The Minister later referred to a law of July 2008 in response to my question. Did he refer to the National Law approving the Treaty of Lisbon amending the Treaty... and the Treaty establishing the European Community?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u262	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u263	When I look at that law, there is a clear talk about legislative proposals and draft decisions, but a letter to the Chamber is de facto not a draft law and not a draft decision, so the question is how the Minister can say that the requirements of that law have been met, if there is no draft decision or legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u264	But that law states exhaustively when Parliament's assent is required. As I indicated in first and second terms, the government announced its intention in this case and extended it to the House of Representatives and now also discussed it with the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u265	Mr Van Hasselt. Excuse me, Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u266	Mr President, it is a long day. But as I read it, this is really about proposals for legislative acts and draft decisions, and that is something other than a plan. There was only a letter in front of it. That is not a direct decision or a draft decision. I would find it really more purer from the point of view of state law if it is clear in advance that something is going to be decided, if the Minister then feels that something has been agreed, because it was discussed. At least it had not been made clear in advance that that was the intention of that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u267	Well, I can only repeat what I have said on this subject a number of times in the first period and now in the second period, so, Madam President...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u268	I think the point has been sufficiently deepened. Mr. Van Hattem, I apologize for saying your name wrong. That was my fault, all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u269	Once visited the town of Hattem and you will never forget it, Mr. Chairman. It's a beautiful town.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u270	But I think this point has been sufficiently deepened, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u271	And I don't think we're gonna agree on this, so as far as I'm concerned, it's not enough, but we obviously have a difference of opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u272	Okay. I have already discussed Mrs Bikker's points. I have discussed the exit criteria and said that this is not the case. Before the impact analysis gets there, it's gonna take a while, but I've already indicated that it has a marginal meaning. I'm about to take over Mrs Wezel's motion. So I hope that I have answered your questions sufficiently, because your question was whether the national detection capacity remains the same. I believe that Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Bikker have also answered the question of democratic control. Then I'll come to Mrs. Duthler. I hope, of course, that my answers will really be able to go back to Mr Van Dijk and move the camel all the way into the tent, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u273	I had also asked if the Minister could explain the institutional differences between a full-fledged EU-EOM and enhanced cooperation. Can I conclude from his silence that there are no institutional differences?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u274	Let's see. This is a closer cooperation which, of course, has institutional differences with full cooperation. This is covered inter alia by Article 326 of the Treaty. Article 86 (4) of the Treaty provides for unanimity. We now only have a regulation that allows for closer cooperation. I don't know if it's going to happen anymore in the future, but it's not going to happen now. There are, of course, institutional differences. That is, I think, also made clear in my earlier term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u275	I was not so much concerned with how the decision-making process has been arranged, but rather with whether it really matters for the position and role of the European Anti-Fraud Office vis-à-vis other institutions. Anyway, you've indicated how the responsibility takes place. I believe that this is the same as in a whole EU-EEA. I haven't heard any differences yet, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u276	There is, I say to you quite honestly, of course, some difference, because this is a regulation. It is the intention of the Netherlands to do so now. Soon you will be accountable, for example, to the European Parliament as a whole, but there are also MEPs from a Member State that may not participate. In that respect, there are some institutional differences in the whole, but they may be small details. Let me put it this way. Then I came to Mrs. Duthler. I'd still like to convince her a little bit more. I would really like to say out loud that timely information from the two Chambers is absolutely necessary at every next step in the EOM. I can assure you that there will be a consultation as we have had in the past with the Second Chamber and with the First Chamber. In that respect, I am at two thirds of what you have said in your speech, but also in your motion. I indicated in the first term that today, on 3 April 2018, I cannot say what would happen when the two Chambers have a different view or one of the Chambers has a different position from the government. That must be done at that time by the one who then stands here as Minister of Justice and the cabinet that then sits there. That seems to me to be the case with state law. For this, too, I refer to the above-mentioned law, which states exhaustively when Parliament's assent is actually required. I can say this about this, if that is a hand-out that reassures Mrs Duthler. Any extension of the mandate would be a matter for the General Affairs Council, the prime ministers. That is not, therefore, something that may be somewhat feared, which is being discussed in a JHA Council sometime in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u277	I am also trying to get political clarity for myself and for my group. I understand that, on the basis of Mrs Duthler's motion, I will inform you as usual if there is anything going on in the JHA Council or on this dossier, the progress of the EPPO; I will also consult you as has been done so far by any government if there is a possibility of extending the mandate from the Commission. But are you not actually saying that this is just for the sake of political clarity, which, as far as the motion asks for approval now, without any consultation at all in the Council of Ministers, without any proposal at all with anything that might happen in the future, would you advise that part and actually ask Mrs Duthler: would you like to reformulate the motion in such a way that we can all come with these camels in any tent?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u278	I had not yet gotten to the formal part of discussing the motions, but I want to clarify. I fully endorse what you say. I would argue that the text 'and not to give its assent if the Court takes a negative view' should be deleted. As far as I'm concerned, then it's Chamber judgment with this motion. Then I can fully live with it, because then you have actually formulated what I may not have said clearly enough in the first period, and I apologize for that, but in any case I really intended to say. So thank you, through you, to Mr Engels, for making that point absolutely clear. I'll get on the motions. I would advise against Mr Van Hattem's motion, which I shall briefly refer to the call for a waiver of participation in the EPPO. I refer in particular to what I said in the introduction about the strong arguments that I consider to be the case for taking part in the EOM. Nevertheless, I would like to inform Mr Van Hattem, through you, that I believe that this is an excellent opportunity to monitor closely what is happening with EU subsidies and money, that it is doing well and in accordance with the objectives. By setting up an EOM like this, you're only making that sharpness bigger. In Member States that may not be fully capable of law enforcement at this time, the EPPO is going to take that up. In that context, I advise against the motion. I have already said that I am taking over Mrs Wezel's motion. From Mrs Duthler's motion, I can make the part "calls on the government" to "consult first" fully mine and not the part afterwards. So I'd hope that last piece goes out. Then I'm at the end of my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u279	Thank you. I shall now close the debate on Room 33709, AE.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-03-eerstekamer-7.u280	Since this is not a legislative proposal which can be put to the vote, I can only conclude that the Minister has today been given the opportunity to hear the views of this Chamber. However, motions have been tabled and there was another motion-writer (33709, X). That motion has been withdrawn. I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the other three motions tabled today.
