ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on Mr Verhoeven's own-initiative proposal to amend the Code of Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Law BES in order to repeal certain special provisions concerning insults to Heads of State or other public persons and institutions. I would like to welcome Mr Verhoeven in Box K. He is supported by Nina Kesar, board member of the Dutch Lawyers Committee on Human Rights, Marloes van Noorloos, associate professor of criminal law at Tilburg University and Carsten Zwaaneveld, member of the D66 group. Welcome to section K. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. The first term of office took place on 8 February this year. Today we are discussing the first-term response and the second-term answer as a whole. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Verhoeven. Mr. Van Dam?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u2	I wanted to ask if I could make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u3	It's okay. I can't wait to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u4	In my first term, I asked the initiator if he would seek further advice from the Public Prosecutor's Office and from the Court of Justice. That seemed to me to be serviceable, because we then misunderstood a number of things. I didn't receive anything in my mailbox, so I think I kind of know how that turned out, but I still needed to ask at the beginning of this period whether he did and why he might not have done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u5	Let me ask Mr Verhoeven. What's the deal with that, exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr President, thank you. I have included in my speech a separate piece in which I will explain this when I think that is appropriate. I didn't do it. I have my reasons for doing so, and if Mr Van Dam agrees, I will gladly make it clear to him. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to look into it so I can do it right now, but I think this is appropriate when it comes to it. If he'll settle for that, that would be very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u7	I'm glad I didn't miss anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u8	It's not you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u9	Nor Mr Van Dam's mailbox.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr President, thank you. It is of course always a true and undivided pleasure for me, as a Member of Parliament, to be able to debate with the honourable Members in the plenary of the House of Representatives, the arena in which the free speech prevails and where conflicts are settled democratically. It is quite special in the context of its own legislative proposal. I would therefore like to thank my fellow Members for their very useful and valuable input in the first term. I will try to answer their questions as best I can. I also try to appreciate their comments and reservations as much as possible. Mr. Chairman. Today's response, as well as the design of the whole bill in recent years, would have been unthinkable without the tremendous help of a number of people who have always been behind me. And some of them are behind me today, too. I would like to mention them briefly, because it is important to do so. First of all, I would like to mention Gerard Schouw, my former colleague in the group, who once started this proposal. His inspiration helped us get here. Secondly, I call it the unpraised Bureau of Legislation of the House of Representatives. The people of Bureau Legislation often work behind the scenes, but do a lot of work for MPs. I would really like to thank them very much for their cooperation and for the great work they have done to make this initiative law possible. Thirdly, of course, I call our own team majesty desecration. The heart of this was formed by the equally indispensable and unpretentious legal D66 duo Huub Linthorst and Carsten Zwaaneveld. Gentlemen, thank you very much for your tirelessness and great sharpness in recent years. In addition, there was a very good cooperation with the Study Committee on Expression Crimes of the Netherlands Legal Committee on Human Rights and with the Association for Media and Communication Law. Two of our advisors over there are behind me now, too. They've just been introduced. Thank you very much for your great contribution. Your facts, your figures and your advice were very valuable. Finally, we had an app group. Along this road: Floor, Maarten, Nicolette, Karsten, thank you for relativizing and blowing off steam. That was necessary sometimes, because it is not nothing, such an initiative law. There were all kinds of MPs who thought they should have all kinds of ideas about it. You're gonna have to deal with that, and then you're a little disappointed that you're gonna have to deal with that. Sometimes these people would say to me: calm down, Kees, calm down. It helped sometimes. Colleagues understand that it is sometimes necessary, and it was. The construction of my answer is as follows. I'll start with a general introduction. Then I would like to address a number of questions about the objective and need of the proposal. Then I'll run the questions in the order of the code. So I'll start with the special articles on majesty desecration. Then I go to the insult of friendly heads of state. Finally, I will address the many questions about the complaint requirement and the law enforcement article. Especially those last things have been talked about in this house. Mr President, first of all, the introduction. For this I take you back in history, to the early years of our Kingdom, to the key years 1816, 1829 and 1830. More than two centuries ago, in September 1816 King Willem I sent a bill to the Chamber on the "Testing of the abuse of the printing press relatively strange Powers." From now on, insulting a friendly head of state could result in a fine of 500 guilders, or "one prison of one to three years." The reason for this was the repeated complaints of "neighborly Gouvernements and Sovereigns" about writings which they found offensive. In addition, the "modern assault of the principles on which peace and social order are founded in neighbouring countries" was an important reason for criminalisation. In short, the foreign legal order and possible long toes or undemocratic principles were leading; not our own democratic rule of law, which is under development. This was not only implied, as is apparent from the absence of a criminal offence for the insult of Dutch authorities. I quote again: "So we see no reason to limit the expression of feelings about internal governance by some conditions." About thirteen years later, in 1829, that last recital was referred back to. By laws of 1829 and 1830, majesty desecration was for the first time punished separately, after a brief explanation of the fact that the translated French Code of Criminal Law was not yet known. After all, the unlimited power of the French emperor and his "high police" made this unnecessary. The following conclusion was reached. I quote one more time: 'The crimes described in those articles are of a very heavy nature, because they attack the highest powers and dignity recognized by the Constitution in the State, undermine the state building in its very foundations, and aim to prepare a reversal of events by all such means, which must make the residents of the country's constitutional institutions averse and make the desire for another form of government be born'. Mr. Chairman. Looking at the moment in our history when this happened, in the run-up to the Belgian revolution, it is not so difficult to translate this recital from the explanatory statement into a more understandable and modern Dutch. In fact, it just said: whoever insults the King or his family is seen as a revolutionary, someone who wanted to destroy and overthrow the young, still developing Netherlands at its core. Of course, that had to be severely punished. I shall now turn to the purpose of this initiative proposal. In the meantime, almost two centuries later, times have changed. And as Mr Van Raak pointed out in his first term, Domela Nieuwenhuis was severely punished for utterances that no one in this Chamber took offense when Mr Van Raak repeated them here. Whether the King makes much or little of his job, this can now be debated freely. The threat of revolution is far away, and a single insult is no longer an acute threat. It is therefore time to revise articles that still come from such times, especially now that Mrs Buitenweg has already said that power should be criticized and people should be able to say out loud what they think, even if it hurts or shockes, but of course not when it evokes violence or hatred, or is intimidating. Those who contribute to the social debate may also say more than those who only want to be unnecessarily offensive. Criminal law should make a distinction in this respect. A twenty-first century head of state, politician, director or institute should derive its authority from integrity, transparency and responsibility, not from the threat of the government sword. Criminal law pays particular attention to socially vulnerable groups, who are unable to defend themselves in law or honour. The aim of the proposal is therefore to bring the Code of Criminal Law into line with legal developments since 1816. Why? I can explain that very briefly. You like that, Mr. Chairman. Insulting is not the norm.... there this law does not change anything about.... but everyone is equal before the law. This does not include absurdly large differences in penalties. Mr. Chairman. I told you, my proposal is divided into three parts. I'll start with the first part, the demise of the majesty desecration itself. In this light, Mr Segers asked whether this was necessary and asked Mr Van der Staaij what problem this bill actually solves. The legal developments outlined in the explanatory memorandum are certainly not yesterday's. This applies not only to freedom of expression and its limitations; it also applies to the monarchy. Our Prime Minister said in 2011 as follows: "Whoever oversees history must note that the Dutch Kingship has always been able to modernise and adapt to the demands of time within the same state law rules." I would add that this was also very much in the interest of the monarchy itself. But I would add that this is not always self-evident. Sometimes it requires a change of law. It is difficult to get a modern kingship if it always has to be accompanied by antique laws, for example on royal dignity. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dam pointed out that majesty desecration and simple insult are under two different titles of the Code of Criminal Law. And with regard to majesty desecration he said: the dignity of kingship is to protect it. Protecting royal dignity is something the King can do mostly himself. As long as he behaves with dignity, his royal dignity will be fine. For the sake of clarity, I would add that I do not mean that insult of the King should go unpunished. However, the existing criminal provisions in this area are not only sufficient, they also guarantee a proper balance with freedom of expression. Mr. Chairman. I see a contradiction in this debate between different views on the government and the role of criminal law. One is a vision that I would like to call the old-fashioned authoritarian: the King and the High Authority should not be offended and thus baste. In short, if I see it correctly, that is the view of the Christian parties in this debate. On the other hand, there is a somewhat more liberal view, which takes a more subtle look at what the role of criminal law might be. What's working? What else does it work? And what doesn't or doesn't? Suppose, for example, a ferocious anarchist insulted the King. What would make more impression on this lawbreaker? Would that be a judge who claims to have compromised royal dignity? Or would that be a judge who says: you have not taken into account that the King is also a human being, with human feelings and as much right to respect as you and I; you have compromised him in his human dignity? I think the anarchist lawbreaker would think in the first instance: well, that was exactly my intention. In the second case, he may once again ask himself whether there are any other means of making his point. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Staaij believes that the King is entitled to special respect, because he has a special task and because so much is expected of him. Mr Van Dam attaches great importance to the fact that the present King and his mother of the royal family have made a refuge hill of rest, cleanliness and regularity and that the King and the Queen have eyes and ears for individual people affected by disaster. I do not have any need to do anything about it, but I also point out that this also applies to many ordinary Dutch people. How many parents don't care for peace, cleanliness and regularity in their families? Who does not have eyes and ears for those who are afflicted by calamity? How many people don't have a special task in which a lot is expected of them? From doctors to elderly carers and paramedics, from judges to police officers and street coaches, but also from entrepreneurs to athletes. Mr. Chairman. In my view, every human being has the same right to respect, regardless of whether they have a special task or not, because this is about their human dignity. This does not exclude the possibility and the need to give additional protection to certain people. I know that very well. I shall come back to that in a later part of my speech. But that certainly does not require the concept of royal dignity or the dignity of certain high positions. Then it's just the practical question: what works in criminal law and what doesn't? Mr. Chairman. At present, criminalisation of insulting royal dignity can work as a red rag on a bull. Such a criminal act only appeals to those citizens who, by themselves, would never think of insulting the King. This means that it also lacks its purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mr Verhoeven has made a distinction between people who have an old-fashioned and autonomous vision, to which he counts my party, and a more liberal contemporary one. It doesn't surprise him that he is more of a liberal contemporary vision. I'd like to make a different distinction. I see more of a difference between a very static approach, of "everyone is equal, special provisions cannot be considered," or a more dynamic vision where you say that there are also differences in the position that people occupy. Does Mr Verhoeven also see room for a dynamic vision, in which you say that everyone has equal human dignity, but that, given the particular role or constitutional function that a person performs, special provisions are possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u12	Yes, sometimes it is necessary in the debate to separate certain points of view in order to show where the differences are and then to get closer to where that is important. Mr Van der Staaij is laughing and I think he knows that I want to do exactly that. Of course, in the field of the position of the King and the contemporary of the royal house, I sketch the picture a bit sharper, but in the third part of the bill, we come to talk extensively about some of the categories that do need a slightly different approach and that also gets from me. So I do have an eye for the different roles in society. Just, I don't want to go as far as in the present case. That is why we have tabled this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you for this response. It is precisely because this is a matter of principle that I would like to hear a little more from Mr Verhoeven. Again, we agree that everyone deserves equal protection from human dignity. In addition, there are certain specialities in our Code in view of the role that is being played. What can Mr Verhoeven see for that and what justification is there for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u14	In the present siuation there are three articles that ensure that insulting the King results in a very severe punishment. We have said that you have to get rid of that, because at this time, two centuries further, it is simply not working articles anymore. However, there are elements in my proposal which deal precisely with the different roles and positions of certain people in our society, for example the possibility of protecting them with a higher level of punishment. However, my group would like to get rid of the very heavy articles that are now being discussed. So we're actually making the very big distinction that used to be, more subtle and more modern. That's the way you should see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u15	Once again, Mr Verhoeven is now talking about practical design. I understand that, and I know it, but I am still interested in his reasoning underlying this approach, for example as to whether officials should have special protection. What is the justification for granting special protection in certain situations? That's not just about it: it's a little different now than it was 100 years ago. No, that question was already in Roman law: how do you defend the institutions of Roman law? I would therefore like to hear a more general approach which underpins his thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u16	The additional protection that Mr Van der Staaij is looking for, I can only make it concrete on the basis of the articles dealing with the maximum penalty, the increase in penalties and whether or not there is a complaint. When it comes to the difference between the King, the Heads of State and the ordinary citizens, I am quite clear to Mr Van der Staaij: we are deleting five articles to ensure that the exorbitant differences between our own head of state, the friendly heads of state and the ordinary citizens disappear. If Mr Van der Staaij asks me whether I do not see at all that there are different positions in society on the basis of which extra protection is needed, then I say: no, we are going to go into that and we will do so in the last part of my speech on the complaint and maximum punishment. So I will definitely end up with that question. I just don't think it's okay to do that right now. I am therefore aware that there are different groups with different roles and therefore different protection needs. I hope that Mr Van der Staaij will be able to settle for that at the moment. I would then like to comment on a small part of the theory behind the articles that I delete in the area of the head of state. With the general offence of simple insult we can achieve a great deal, for example by referring to the second paragraph of Article 266, the general article on insult that everyone can use, including the King. In my opinion, this is wonderful. I quote: 'Not as a simple offense are acts of criminality intended to give an opinion on the defence of public interests and which are not aimed at grievances in any other way or more severe than is the case in that regard'. I can explain that to any lawbreaker. However, Mr Van Dam believes that there should still be a separate criminalisation of insulting the King. Not a provision that addresses the person of the King in office, but which is really about the dignity of the kingship itself, if I have understood him correctly. I must point out to him first of all that, according to the legal literature, the sentence relating to the desecration of majesty is directed at the person in office. And that makes the difference between the insulting articles in Title II and those in Title XVI somewhat smaller than he suggests. But then, and that is important, Mr Van Dam went into the way in which the particularly majesty desecration article.... that is Article 111 that we delete... should be interpreted in the light of the general offense article, Article 266. He did so because of the three-step doctrine he cited. I could go into this infinitely more detail, but let us assume for this discussion that this difference and the three-step doctrine would be fully integrated into the application of Article 111. What if this is the case? Mr President, in that case, the differences between Rule 111 and Rule 266 would be great. There is, in fact, a bizarrely higher maximum penalty in Article 111, there is the possibility of restricting as an additional penalty important fundamental rights of the sentenced person, such as withdrawal from the right to vote, and I refer to the various titles in which these articles have been placed. In addition, there is the question of whether or not to be a complaint, but I will come back to that later, because I have also included an amendment in my second letter of amendment to that effect. I'll deal with that later. I come to Mr Van der Staaij's points in more detail. Now I am actually saying quite simply that my conclusion is that the maintenance of two different crimes cannot be justified. I shall therefore close this block on the desecration of majesty with two questions from Mr Van der Staaij. The first was: what signal does this proposal send? My answer to that is that the Code of Criminal Law is being modernised on a small part relating to insult. Insulting may not be allowed, but separately penalising majesty desecration is no longer of this time. It doesn't suit a modern kingship. You may criticize the King, but do so without harming him or his consequence unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you, Mr President. It's an exciting debate, because I'm suddenly turning an old-fashioned politician into a dynamic politician. Thanks to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u19	And that also increases your dignity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u20	From left to right, I'd almost want a separate article for myself in the law book. But let's get back to business. I can, in a manner of speaking, always stand by this microphone, but I have put a lot of emphasis on it in my first contribution, so I do not do that. But I would like to ask you one more question. You indicate where Article 111 differs from those other articles. I think that all of this is rather trivial, because I have indicated that the penalty could be reduced. I've indicated that you could get rid of that conviction for voting rights and so on. Can you also indicate the explicit difference between the two titles in which it is written? That's what I've been putting forward. The title in which the desecration of majesty now stands is a completely different one and also sheds a totally different light on the articles contained in it than the insulting article that, I believe, is in Title XVI. You don't call that. I also understand that you do not mention this, because you explicitly say that everyone is equal. And there, I think, will also split our paths. But the King is not equal. Can you tell me how you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u21	This part of my bill is the most fundamental difference. D66 says in this proposal: everyone is equal and anyone who is offended can use the same article and is protected in the same way against that insult. I understand very well that Mr Van Dam says: no, it is not. He even says it literally: the King is not equal. So you must also give the King extra protection, and do so with a separate article. We are proposing in this bill that the three separate articles concerning the insult of the King be deleted. And I do so more from the point of view of content than from the point of view of the Code of Criminal Law. Then we do so because we believe that an extra heavy penalty should not be considered. We think that five years in prison and the withdrawal of the right to vote are far too difficult. Then you could say, as Mr Van Dam says, that you do want to reduce that sentence or that you want to remove it from the right to vote. We say: no, it is now two centuries later, we have a modern and powerful royal house, we have a King who is in society in a very different way. That King doesn't need those special items anymore. Then let's just get rid of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u22	That, I believe, is at the heart of this debate. It's not just another place in the law book. That other place manifests a certain value. There are other articles that relate to the King. I think that is the essence of this debate, whether everyone is equal in this country. Of course everyone is equal, I totally agree with Mr Van der Staaij who says: when it comes to a private matter, everyone is equal, but our King is in a different position from day one. He's not an average family man. He's someone who has a different position in our state system. I think that is something we should be very aware of, that we appreciate it quite differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u23	By emphasising that we appreciate this completely differently, I think you are making it very clear where the dividing lines lie at the point of principle of my proposal. You yourself indicated in the first term that you would like to see the part about the friendly head of state, for example. You're actually much more excited about that. In the documents on the special categories, groups of people and the extra insult, we have also heard proposals from the Chamber which we have once again addressed. This is the basic part of the legislative proposal and we disagree on this in principle. I would also very much like to answer, for a very long time, the question of how we appreciate the King's position and how the CDA does it. But we are very different about this, and I think that we can only overcome this difference by simply finding that we differ here. And that I think that we have now arrived at a time when the modern royal house, with a powerful King who stands in a very contemporary way in society, no longer needs old articles from two centuries ago to have royal dignity or to be sufficiently protected from insult.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mr Van Dam, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u25	Finally. In the first term, I indicated that, compared to all the other proposals, we will not make the biggest point of the friendly head of state and that will change that. But I also indicated that, if we had met Mr Mandela here so many years ago, you would get a slightly different look at the deletion of that article than, for example, when it comes to the current Turkish President. So to say that this morning we were enthusiastically in our bed: 'oh, we're going to delete that part too', no, then I have to disappoint Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u26	That hurts me. I have seen a lot of enthusiastic reactions from you in recent months, also through very contemporary channels, and I found that very pleasant. In any case, I remembered that in the second part of my proposal on the Heads of State or Government, your enthusiasm was relatively high compared to the enthusiasm about the other parts. Then maybe I didn't say it quite right. Moreover, I think that you should also note that Mr Van Dam himself is now using the changing spirit of time as an argument for the way in which the law should be looked at, with which he actually says that the way in which I take the changing spirit of time into account in changing the law might also be very real. So at least I thank him for the implicit compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u27	I am going to breed on what Mr Van Dam actually said, because I think it is very wise to criticize once in a while, including Mandela, for example. So I don't see why that couldn't happen all of a sudden. Mr Verhoeven makes it a point of principle that everyone is equal, but I think he makes it very big. Because further on in his bill, he does make a distinction. On the contrary, Mr Verhoeven referred to the fact that people are all in fact regarded as civil servants and can also obtain a certain amount of additional protection from them. So do you not now make the principle line much too big to say 'everyone is equal', while you do bring together a number of things later on? So I think it's wise to go there before we pretend completely... For Mr Van Dam already compared the King with any family father, but Mr Verhoeven's bill makes a distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u28	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u29	So maybe it's good to go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u30	That is what I want to do, and I will get there on my own, and this is in fact in line with Mr Van der Staaij's question. This is a harmonica with, on the one hand, a great article, a very heavy article for the King, which should not be offended, and a prison sentence of up to five years if it did, and, on the other hand, of course ordinary officials, officials, who play a certain role in public space and are therefore particularly vulnerable because of their profession. I think those two things are far apart. At the request of the Chamber, I have brought it back a little closer. So the whole fundamental distinction should not indeed be made here, that is not healthy. It is true that we believe that the King and ordinary citizens are equal and should all use the same insulting article. When it comes to the way in which certain groups of people have to do their jobs in society and the protection they get, we absolutely need to talk about this. I come to speak so extensively about this, precisely because the Chamber has done a great deal of work on it. But if Mrs Buitenweg agrees, I would like to finish my piece on majesty desecration first. I shall then turn to the issue of Heads of State or Government who are friends. Then we are going to talk about the various categories of officials, where I do make a more subtle distinction than the fundamental difference between 'everyone is equal' and 'everyone is not equal'. But Mrs Buitenweg must approve of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u31	Yes, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u32	Looks like Mrs. Buitenweg's cool. Mr President, I would like to conclude with regard to this document concerning the desecration of majesty. I could imagine that Mr Van der Staaij had just made the point that I thought was a long time before a signal, because I was still going into his point about the signal. But perhaps he agrees with me that the legislation is a little more than sending a message à la Twitter. Perhaps he and Mr Segers would also like to think about the effect of short signals, for example in the vein of: the King may insult you; none of that matters. Mr Segers and Mr Van der Staaij must also take account of the possibility that this bill will reach the Official Journal. Suppose a transversal teenager from the supporters of the SGP.... They may think that cross-pubescent teenagers don't belong to their families, but suppose there is one after all. Suppose that teenager read in Dutch Dagblad that Mr Segers said that after this change of law you should insult the King. What if after a lot of glasses of beer, that teenager starts beating off about the King or the Queen? What if he's gonna be prosecuted for that? I would not call it entrapment, but this teenager is perhaps a little bit the victim of the false signals given by Mr Segers and Mr Van der Staaij in the first term of this debate, because insulting is not the norm. The insulting of someone is absolutely not something that D66 is in favour of. I've said that many times. Anyway, Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna limit myself to this trip. Let us stick to the facts about this bill, because there is already enough disinformation. But I briefly outlined how the signal can be understood by different people at different times. This bill is a signal, but the way the opposition talks about this bill is another signal. That's what I'm talking about, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u33	This was a mild form of entrapment, let's just say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u34	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u35	I understand the point made by Mr Verhoeven: beware that you yourself do not want to misunderstand this law. That's the serious element in what he put forward. I agree. Of course, that is not what you mean by criticism. But the question remains: what does this law actually change for the citizen, including his freedom of expression? There is a very fundamental argument for freedom of expression, such as: freedom of expression is now restricted and should not be allowed. Then the message, however you turn or turn, is that there will be a greater freedom of expression for that citizen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u36	Freedom of expression for citizens is great in this country and is also limited by various articles. We want to delete Articles 111 to 113 and 118 and 119 on the Head of State and Heads of State or Government. That leaves the very important Article 266, which restricts the scope for expression. That article is central to the reason why I keep saying: insulting is not the norm. I think it is quite clear that in no way should the suggestion be raised that D66 is in favour of insulting each other. That is in no way the issue, but it seemed a bit like it because of the way in which in this case Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Segers summarize this bill, such as: oh, insulting the King, that will be fine. So that is absolutely not the case. The insulting of the King is not good. The King can also respond to that by using Article 266. That is at the heart of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u37	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u38	Finally, Mr President, was there Mr Van der Staaij's question: does the bill not allow more room for insulting the King? Actually, that question ties in with his interruption. My answer to that is: no, it doesn't. Indeed, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms already restricts the possibility of applying Article 111 of the Code of Criminal Law to the letter. What this bill does do is to make it easier for those who have offended themselves in the public debate to invoke the justification for defending public interests, if they are entitled to it. If prosecuted under Rule 111 and the prosecution and the judge fail to apply that three-step doctrine, Mr Van Dam's three-step doctrine, then a convicted person can only obtain his right from the European Court of Human Rights, and that is quite real. This entails considerable costs of legal aid. I think it is necessary and urgent to do something about it. This can be done by deleting Rule 111. Finally, Mr Van Dam's question as a point of order, which he made at the beginning of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u39	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u40	I promised him I'd come back to that. The reason why I did not ask for advice from the prosecution is, in short, that it is not so much a question of implementation, but above all a political question. We politicians are co-legislators here. Then it's about how much you need an additional article to punish insulting the King. That political question needs to be answered by politicians. In doing so, we have not considered the opinion of the Public Prosecutor to be necessary. In addition, the Court agreed to the examination of this proposal without the opinion of the Public Prosecutor. I think we can do it without that advice. In fact, that is why we did not do it, because it is mainly a political issue and not a technical question of implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u41	Do you have anything else at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u42	No, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u43	Mr. Chairman. Short. I don't think it's right what's being said here. We were here last time at the first treatment collectively guessing what was going on with the King's bike, whether or not he had to go to the station himself. We have collectively been speculating about the application of European case law. Mr Verhoeven says that Mr Van der Staaij gives the impression that you can insult the King now, but he gives the impression that, let us say, the whole of European case law would not be applied. Those are just actual application questions. In that respect, I really think it is a missed opportunity and a lack of legislative process that the proposal does not exist, not both of the prosecutors and of the judges, how it is applied in practice. That is why I object to this. I'm not gonna save anything from it, because this train is almost at its final destination in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u44	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u45	No, I don't think I'm gonna get the majority here to still arrest and so on... I think it is wrong that these are only political aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u46	That is Mr Van Dam's weighting on that point, but nevertheless a reaction to the collective guessing to the King who should report on the bike. I didn't make a collective mistake about that for a second. It is a suggestion that has been woken up by opponents in the Chamber. I have then met them again in terms of content. We'll get to that. I have heard from a number of parties in this Chamber: well, Mr Verhoeven, D66 wants the King to get on his bike now to press charges. That is not at all the issue! The King can just let the National Information Service do that. In civil proceedings, the King can simply take that step himself. The image of "Verhoeven, D66 wants the King to get on his bike to report it" does not come from my kitchen. Nor is it at all covered by this bill. That suggestion was then raised and, on the basis of that suggestion, I should ask the public prosecutor whether that suggestion is working. I get a weird suggestion on my bill and then have to ask the D.A. if that's true. With all due respect, I don't. What I have done, however, is to show real respect for the Chamber of Inquiry, which is that, in the letter of amendment, I met that point about the crime or not. I'll get to that. The means of seeking advice from the public prosecutor is a nice tool, but I have disappointed Mr Van Dam in that. However, I have addressed the substance of the political questions which have been misrepresented by political groups in this House who have been concerned about this and have deliberately exaggerated to get what they want. Since I am a committed and binding person, I have gone into the content, but I do not go into the request to ask the Public Prosecutor for advice on something that is not covered in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u47	This is where the petitioner is really going to make the mistake again, because making a comparison where the National Information Service can file a complaint on behalf of someone in a criminal case is totally out of order. What we are being deprived of is the possibility of knowing to what extent that is right or wrong. Then you can say to me or to others 'you have made a false suggestion', but you know very well what was behind this essential point, namely whether it is possible at all. I do not think it is right that we should have an opinion on this. But, as I said, I leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u48	I appreciate that, and I won't go into it any further. I think there may have been some exaggeration from both sides. This is sometimes necessary in order to achieve some kind of compensation of behavior and then to find each other in the middle again. I have tried to achieve this through my letter of amendment. Let me now turn to the second part of my proposal. That's about the friendly heads of state. I can be a little shorter about that. Our legislative proposal also deletes the special protection of friendly Heads of State, Articles 118 and 119, if I say so correctly. They must also apply to Article 266, the ordinary offense I have just mentioned. The contribution of my fellow Members seemed to be quite unanimous. That's why I'll be brief. Mr Markuszower was particularly active in this area. He asked whether Article 266 could be amended in such a way that only residents of the Netherlands could avail themselves of that article. In doing so, he wants to prevent foreign heads of state and possibly even all non-Dutch citizens from using that article. When it comes to people who are outside the Netherlands but are offended from the Netherlands, there is of course already a kind of natural filter, because the insult has to reach someone if that person wants to file a complaint at all. Restricting to insult to the Dutch or residents of the Netherlands would constitute a breach of Article 2, which presupposes the Dutch jurisdiction for offences committed on Dutch territory.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u49	I had to dig to know what I had already said in the first term, but thank you for writing it down so well. Achieving this is of course not so complicated today, because of the development of social media. An insult via Facebook or Instagram finds its way quickly beyond our borders. Could you go into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u50	I absolutely agree with Mr Markuszower that social media, and perhaps also the phenomenon of globalisation in the broad sense, are leading to faster reports from one side of the world reaching the other side of the world. That's just a fact. However, we still have the filter of language and range. We know that when someone in New Zealand insults me, it reaches me less quickly than when you insult me. So that is still the issue. Secondly, Article 266 remains open to friendly Heads of State when that insult reaches them. I therefore believe that the overall package is sufficient to be able to speak of a balanced proposal. Apart from that, there are international legal obligations for friendly Heads of State. Mr Van der Staaij asked how far they reach. The Langemeijer Committee and the Commission of Opinions on international law issues have already considered this in the past. They concluded that countries were free or not to make special provision for the criminal protection of the honour and good name of heads of friendly States as long as the protection of honour and good name in general complied with internationally accepted standards in the legal order of the country, both from the point of view of the standards in force and from the point of view of its practical enforcement. Under the bill, the ordinary insulter remains accessible to offended friendly heads of state. I told you. In doing so, the Netherlands fulfils international obligations, especially now that the regime of Article 116a Criminal Procedure continues to exist in order to make defence practically possible. That Article provides that the complaint may be made in the form of a request for prosecution made by a State through diplomatic channels. In order to avoid any misunderstandings, as misunderstandings have also played a role in this debate, this does not alter the fact that the prosecution itself decides or continues to do so. The judge may take the defence of a public interest by the perpetrator as a justification. Then I go to my third part, and also the last part of this proposal. I think this has been discussed most often, and we have also had the most discussion about this. That discussion leads to movement, at least in my own country, to accommodate the Chamber somewhat in the service of a number of officials who do their job and who do or do not need additional protection for it. We are talking about Articles 267 and 269. Those articles are about a higher penalty limit and about the complaint requirement. Where the first part of this bill, the majesty desecration itself, led mainly to differences of principle, we have just seen it at the interrupting microphone, and the second part, about the befriended head of state, led to fairly general agreement, the third part, about complaint and maximum punishment, mainly leads to misunderstandings and confusion, and therefore even to social unrest and false opposition. After the first term, I felt I should do something about it myself. If you have a message and that message is somehow not fully understood, then you should also look at yourself. I shall come back to that in detail later. We have therefore considered it necessary to address the Court on a number of points, in substance, but also by simply removing a misunderstanding that has arisen. I think that is important because I also noticed that a number of groups and civil society organisations really thought that this bill would lead to a deterioration for them, which is absolutely not the issue and has never been the issue. In order to clarify this point, I shall begin with three general comments. First of all, I would like to point out that in the debate on this bill, the two elements, namely maximum punishment and complaint, are often brought under the same heading by talking about additional protection against insult to certain persons. However, I would like to stress that it concerns two different issues. It concerns, on the one hand, the increase in the penalty ceiling and, on the other hand, the expiry of the complaint requirement. They are therefore arranged in two different articles for a reason. Coherence is also there. It is in the fact that one article, 269, refers to the other article, 267. So there is a link again, but not a complete link, and that makes it complicated, because Article 269 refers only to two of the three categories in Article 267. There is therefore no binding link between the two issues. Mr President, my second comment is that I consider the article on the complaint requirement to be the most important of these two articles. That's that point of that King who would have to go to a certain place on a particular vehicle himself to report an insult or not. My third remark is that it is wrong to consider the expiry of the complaint requirement merely as an additional protection. It may also be the opposite. I will come back to that as well. Mr President, I shall begin with Rule 269 on the complaint requirement. The main rule of that article is that insult is prosecuted only if a complaint has been lodged by the offended person. Which brings me to the question of what a complaint is. I note that, in the first period, it has been confused with making a declaration. Making a declaration is a form of police and the D.A.'s office helping. In a limited number of cases it is a duty, but in general it is a competence. You do it if you think it's important that the police and the Public Prosecutor become aware that a criminal offence has been committed, or at least something that could be a criminal offence. A declaration is not a condition that must be met before the prosecution can proceed. The prosecution may also have found out in other ways that a criminal offence has been committed. Conversely, it is not the case that if you press charges, the prosecution must go to trial. That's up to the DA himself. When it comes to a complaint, this is different. Then the prosecution is only authorized to prosecute if the victim has filed a complaint. In such a case, if you want the D.A. to prosecute, you have to file a complaint. But then, even then, the D.A. is still free to prosecute or not. Now, as a victim, if you don't want the D.A. to prosecute someone for a complaint, you don't have to file a complaint. Mr Van Dam (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, in his first term of office, Mr Van Dam (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Van Dam (PPE). That is what Mr Van Dam called it. If you want to, Mr Markuszower asked for the prosecution to go on its own again, then you have to remove that hand brake. That is what Article 269 does. As a result, the prosecution is once again fully empowered to prosecute, regardless of whether a complaint has been lodged. So that can also be against the intent of the offended person. In fact, it's just a question of whether the prosecution will consult with the offended person before going to prosecution. With regard to the King, Mr Van Dam said from personal experience about this, and I quote: 'In the best case, the King and the Ministers will be informed' that something like this is going to happen. The complaint requirement is not only relevant to the jurisdiction of the prosecution. There is another important aspect: the complaint requirement makes it difficult for those who have to file the complaint to remain anonymous, and some will want it. We have to think about civil servants and aid workers in particular. It is very important for them that the complaint requirement should lapse. That is what the current Article 269 does. Mr. Chairman. I now come to the question which is also a bit of a key question for a number of people, at least for Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Van der Staaij. I am referring to the question for which persons the complaint requirement should now lapse. Then I will answer the question as to whether it should be the same people who are also insulted by increased penalties. The Chamber has said very wise and useful things about this, and I thank my colleagues very much for that. They really helped me think about this matter. They each did so in their own way, but they did it and I am very grateful to them for that. Nor have I tabled a letter of amendment on this aspect for nothing. In this I mention two categories, firstly the King and his own, and secondly officials. My guiding idea was what I have just explained about the importance of the expiry of the complaint requirement in order to remain anonymous. In my view, the fact that civil servants in the broadest sense, including those who perform a public task, can have a major interest in this in general, is undisputed. The discussion mainly concerns two groups for which I have made an exception, i.e. directors and representatives of the people. Those are people who, in order to use an understatement, perform their public tasks in no way in anonymity. In fact, they often seek out publicity, and this can lead to criticism and, unfortunately, to insult. We've all experienced that before. Do they have an interest in staying anonymous if the person has lodged a complaint? I don't think so. In their case, much more important is the question of whether only the prosecutor should have the power to prosecute, or whether the director or the representative of the public in question can put a brake on it himself. They will not be able to do so if the complaint requirement expires for them. If it doesn't fall, the DA's gonna decide. I believe, Mr President, that for this group of people, the directors and the representatives of the people, the expiry of the complaint requirement is not an additional protection, but may be the opposite. They are people who are usually very well able to decide for themselves how they want to protect their own reputation and the reputation of the organisation for which they work or in which they work. They can also think very differently about that. One person has become lighter than the other, and in one organisation a different strategy for protecting reputation will be followed than in the other. Maybe the most important thing is that these people just have a better view of that than the D.A.'s office. Again, I quote Mr Van Dam on the insult of the King. "The prosecution decides, and at best the King and the ministers are informed." Maybe the D.A. is more inclined to consult when it comes to mayors and city council members, but if the D.A. considers that necessary, the D.A. will also prosecute against their will. That's what the D.A. has the authority to do. If we do not want this as a legislator, we must put a brake on it and maintain the complaint requirement for directors and representatives of the people. And that is what we are doing in our proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u51	I noticed in the discussion last time that a number of things were mixed up, because Mr Segers referred, for example, to participation evenings where politicians were actually threatened. Can Mr Verhoeven confirm here that this is an insult, which is really something other than a threat, that it is logical in the event of threats that there is an action by the Public Prosecutor and that this is really a defined category?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u52	Yes. I would also like to say a few words in response to Mr Segers, because I have tried to include the most important points of all my colleagues in the reply. But absolutely a definite yes; these are two completely different things. By the way, it is also impossible not to mix things up in a debate like this, but we must try to break it up as effectively as possible at the level of law. I have tried to do this by using these different categories, which I am trying to explain as clearly as possible today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u53	And how far along are you with your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u54	Two-thirds. I have 35 papers and I'm at number 24 now, so I'm at 24/35 of my first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u55	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u56	Thank you. Having had that point, I come to the King and his own. In the first letter of amendment, you have read that I have refused to waive the complaint requirement for them. The agreement between them and the group of officials discussed above is the anonymity in which they do their work, to some extent. Officials have an interest in anonymity. The King also carries out an important part of his work in anonymity, namely everything that has to do with his participation in the government. Another part, his representative tasks, he does, however, perform in the open, but even then we don't know who wrote his speeches: himself or the RVD? In that respect, too, the King remains anonymous. Whoever the author is, in all cases, a minister is responsible. That responsibility should also apply to the lodging or non-complaint complaints, but I understand that I cannot manage to do so. Much has been said here about the dignity of kingship and its maintenance. But apparently there is no need in this Chamber for the Prime Minister to be able, if necessary, to address his policy of maintaining that royal dignity, including through criminal law. So that stays with the state's attorney's office. I accept that and therefore listen to the Chamber. To speak to Mr Van Dam: you cannot be against everything. The second letter of amendment removed the complaint requirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u57	I see all the kids in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u58	Yeah, they're gonna think, "What a good thing D66's gonna make sure you don't offend the King!"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u59	Well, I don't know, but good! Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u60	I must say that in that respect I wonder whether Mr Verhoeven has any clear moments in bringing forward this bill, but well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u61	I'll do my best!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u62	I would like to ask one more thing, because I also pointed out in my first term that the presence or absence of a complaint requirement also has meaning in the sense that... I have to find the right words myself. What if you have to file a complaint? Then you don't only have the hassle that you're offended, but you get the bucket in our modern age because you're obviously so touchy that you want to be prosecuted. So there's some kind of secondary trauma. Does the initiator also take this aspect into account in his choice whether or not to re-introduce or abolish the complaint requirement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u63	Secondary traumas... I think I have done so by distinguishing between different officials and also taking part in anonymity, protecting yourself and looking up the media, including the social media. In doing so, I have introduced the differentiation that Mr Van Dam considers desirable. So my answer to his question would be: yes, I took that into account and the outcome is my second letter of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u64	But it's very specific. What I mean is this. Suppose a complaint is required, suppose the King would have a complaint requirement...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u65	Which is not the case anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u66	Which is no longer the case. But did you consider, when choosing to go from a complaint to a non-complaint, for which much thanks, that the King himself would be called into question again in the public debate, suppose he should make a complaint before prosecuting?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u67	Actually, you're saying, I'm glad I got what I wanted, but I just want to know exactly how I got what I wanted. I find that an interesting question, Mr President. Yes, I have taken into account the different positions of the different people, including the King, whom I have, in fact, been able to consider on this aspect as an official who should be able to do his job, and so I have taken into account that, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u68	And yet I think it's more than that. You may hear what I say, but we are here to make laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u69	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u70	That's what's happening here. I therefore believe that in your considerations to introduce and then abolish first, let us say, is important what your considerations have been in order to do so. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u71	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u72	That you also underline that I have been right, I will not run away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u73	I said in my initial proposal that the King should also be able to decide for himself whether he thinks that a certain insult should lead to a complaint. I have explained this at various times in all kinds of explanations of this bill. I had the hope that the Chamber would follow me in that. The Chamber then came with a great concern, which was mainly directed at the Head of State, at the King, who would then end up in a very problematic situation in order to make that complaint clear by insult. I then thought about how to ensure that I can also support my proposal. At the heart of my proposal is the articles that we have already discussed, namely the five articles that we delete. This is a more subtle point, of which the Chamber clearly stated: think carefully about the consequences. On some points, I say no, I stick to my point. For example, I really think that people's representatives and directors should be man enough to make that complaint themselves. But I have taken into account the point that the Chamber has made about the King as one of the officials who has to do his work in relative anonymity, in my judgment. That's listening to the colleagues. That's what we're having debates for in this house. In that debate, I listened to the input of the Chamber, including your position. So I took that into account in my judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u74	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u75	I'd almost say it would be good if we did that more often. For then we are going from a debate of principle, in which everyone is stuck at his point, to a more dynamic debate, to speak with Mr Van der Staaij, in which we can find each other on parts where that is possible, without damaging the content that we all consider important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u76	I shall bear this in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u77	That's not what it's for, Mr. Chairman. But it is your right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u78	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u79	Finally, the point is that the movement is good, but that the argument is wrong somewhere. 'Cause I don't see that anonymity coming into being with the King at all. But the fact that we want to keep the King above the parties in that kind of discussion is a very valid argument. Look, I don't hear you mention that, and I'm asking you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u80	That's right, I didn't use that as my main argument. And I've certainly just substantiated the anonymity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u81	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Verhoeven for accepting the amendment I tabled with Mrs Kuik of the PvdA. Then I can also say in the direction of Mr Van Dam, although he is actually claiming his success, that that amendment has been accepted. If Mr Van Dam, through you, President-in-Office and with Mr Verhoeven's comprehension, is looking for the reasons behind that change, I can also point out to him the explanation of that amendment. Mr Verhoeven just mentioned the difference between filing a complaint and making a complaint. But in the end, I am standing next to Mr Van Dam, once again, asking someone, if it is a complaint, to say himself that he feels offended, that he has heard that or something, which pulls someone out of anonymity. They're asking you to pay attention to that insult. We don't want that. So it's good that that's taken away. Then my question. I understand that now that Mr Verhoeven has accepted the amendment of the PvdA and the VVD...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u82	I don't know if it's taken over. We need to take a look...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u83	Well, he has submitted a letter of amendment which amends the text as we have requested, for which much thanks, respect and appreciation. But the explanatory statement to the amendment also stated that it was not intended, for example, that in insulting the King, the King himself had first heard the insult and that he indicated that he was emotionally affected by it. I would like to hear from Mr Verhoeven that this is not going to become a requirement now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u84	Before I give you the floor, the following. There has always been talk of accepting an amendment. What amendment are we talking about, what number? Otherwise, you'll get back to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u85	Mr President, I can say something about it. That is legislative technique, and this is the result. Mr Koopmans of the VVD together with Mrs Ploumen or Mrs Kuik... Well, Mrs. Kuiken has submitted it and Mrs. Ploumen is here. In any case, VVD and PvdA have tabled a legislative amendment together and I have appreciated that proposal by including it in my second letter of amendment. Whether that's take over or not, I don't know. But I have just listened to Ploumen and Koopmans on those aspects, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u86	Yes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u87	Then the other two points. It kind of reminds me of two little boys in a schoolyard. One gives a bag of marbles to the other, and the other boy asks, "Why did you give me that bag of marbles?" And as an answer, because I think you have fewer marbles. Then the little boy says, "But I want you to give them to me because you like me." "It doesn't matter, you just get a bag of marbles." The result is good, and I believe that we are simply working effectively. So I don't think it's very useful to think about why someone got what they wanted. I have just listened to the input of the Chamber and explained why I came to this weighting; partly because of the contribution of the Chamber and partly because I have looked at the position of the King and his ability to do his work, whether in anonymity or not. Then there is Mr Koopmans' point about hearing, hearing the complaint, if I have understood correctly. I think, for the sake of certainty, I would be happy to return to that in the second term after checking it out, which is precisely by making it a complaint of crime, the prosecution is in a position to have a complaint not heard by the King prosecuted. So the King doesn't have to have heard it himself, but I'd like to check this out. Making a complaint takes it away for yourself, I think. I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u88	To avoid further confusion. If I understand correctly, Verhoeven says the following after his second letter of amendment. There is the category of what I call servants of the public interest. If you insult them, the D.A. can make such a case on its own. Then that's the basis and we shouldn't make it any harder than it is. This is what I'm talking about. If you now say something very awful to the King, he doesn't necessarily have to have heard it himself and the minister here doesn't have to say: Your Majesty, do you know that something awful has been said here; do you not feel very hurt by it? That would put both the King and the Minister in a difficult position, so let's just keep it that way. I assume that Mr Verhoeven agrees with me that the Minister does not have to ask the King first and then go back to the Public Prosecutor's Office with the answer. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u89	I think Mr Koopmans's reading is in line with what I mean. I'll check it out; I said something about it earlier. By the way, it is a good thing to say that this is being whispered to me by a number of very sensible people, who say that it is not a requirement for a complaint that the person concerned should feel offended or become emotional. "Insult" is just an objective concept. That is also part of the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u90	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u91	I shall go on to those for whom the increase in the penalty ceiling, Article 267, should apply. So far we have been talking about Article 269 on complaint requirements, and now we are going to Article 267 on increasing the maximum prison sentence, to be precise: the wording of the groups of persons involved. This then works on to Article 269. It's still pretty complicated. Finally, that is the end of my speech, and I would like to comment briefly on the criminalisation of insulting public authority and a public institution. This is also a separate part of Article 267 which I would like to delete from my proposal. Mr. Chairman. My introduction to this section has already shown that Article 267 has a significant symbolic character for me. I have therefore had no difficulty in accepting from the amendment tabled by Mr Koopmans of the VVD and Mrs Kuiken of the Labour Party that the increase in maximum imprisonment would also apply to insulting the King and his own. Mr Van Dam said something important about the wording of the group of officials. I quote him again...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u92	I see that you want to interrupt, Mr Van der Staaij, but perhaps it is a good thing that Mr Verhoeven finishes this first, because he was in the process of responding to Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u93	Yeah, I think it makes sense to do that first. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u94	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u95	You decide that, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to quote Mr Van Dam: 'We do not want anything to change in the regulations concerning insulting mayors, aldermen, council members, conductors of the NS, bus drivers of Connexxion or paramedics in private service'. There was a misunderstanding, which I would also like to remove by means of the second letter of amendment. I want to take that away permanently. Mr Van Dam is right that there may be a bottleneck with public service workers in private service, but his repeated suggestion, expressed at various times, that this is the result of our legislative proposal is simply wrong. I repeat: our bill does not change the protection of public service workers in private service, nor has it, nor will it. But it is a relevant point, because there is something going on with those public aid workers in private service, only we have never come to it and do not do so in the spirit of this proposal. This could be a natural moment of breath, Mr President, and perhaps also a natural moment for Mr Van der Staaij's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u96	Actually, I just wanted to respond to some sort of in-between. It is indeed a striking element in the second letter of amendment which will also apply in the case of the King a penalty increase, contrary to what the proposal actually intended. The King, the King's wife and the King's suspected successor are added to the list of persons whose insult may result in a higher prison sentence. I welcome that, but is it not the reasoning that the King has no greater protection in any way, with which the bill was so pompous, totally undermined? You are actually taking that argument completely down by saying 'indeed, away with that provision', while it simply comes back through the back door with that heavier sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u97	Mr Van der Staaij himself knows that this is not a good representation of things. I would almost say to Mr Van der Staaij: you do not need this. You have articles of principle 111 to 113. We are talking about five years in prison and taking away the right to vote on the grounds of insulting the King. Of that, D66 says very firmly: that has to come out. We took that out and a large part of the Chamber seems to agree. Then, in this case, the Chamber itself stated to the PvdA and the VVD that it wants the King not to be treated entirely differently from the officials I was talking about. She is therefore in fact asking for the King to be placed in that group because the King is also an official in office with the associated situations. I said then: okay, it's not what I originally wanted, but because the Chamber considers it important to see the King as an official who is also extra protected like some other officials, we do two things: the maximum sentence becomes four months instead of three and it becomes a complaint offence. This is also the result of the wishes of a number of other parties in the Chamber who, on other points, are once again in full agreement with me. Mr Van der Staaij is now pretending that I am undermining the substance of my legislative proposal. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u98	I think it is right to speak of the King as a minister rather than as an official. I am also concerned about the following and that is really not a word game. If you so basically state that everyone is equal and that the King should not enjoy special protection, but if he subsequently regains the status of at least civil servants and ministers, then somehow it will be based on that so principled approach why this is really necessary? Then you come close to what Mr Van Dam said: a lower sentence in the provision on the King would actually have had the same effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u99	Then Mr Van der Staaij would have to table an amendment to ensure that the King, as originally envisaged in the D66 proposal, would not be given additional protection through these two ways. Mr Van der Staaij does not think I am consistent, but I am not consistent because I am listening to the wishes of the Chamber to include the King in the category of civil servants. So I do not call him an official either, because he is a minister, but I am joining him in the category of civil servants, for which we have a separate protection, while maintaining equality, by means of a higher sentence of three to four months. This is an existing exception made for existing officials. It doesn't affect equality, but it is a functional protection for people who stand with their legs in the clay. The Chamber has said that the King also has scissors. Then I say we will, Room. And then Mr Van der Staaij comes here, who says: 'You will lose the substance of your legislative proposal'. That is, of course, absolutely not the issue. It is a subtle concession on a part about which there was confusion and where there was a need of the Chamber I liked to listen to and have served.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u100	I am pleased that Mr Verhoeven de VVD, the PvdA and I think that the Chamber has broadly met on this point. One small correction: he just said that we would say that the King is also an official. "Ambtsbrugger" might be a better word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u101	It's already been corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u102	I am interested in servants of the public interest. That's a very broad category of people who do that professionally, like the King. Those must be protected, but in my opinion there is no difference between what Mr Verhoeven says and what I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u103	Then you have made this point clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u104	I think it makes sense to stress that I said that in a functional, material sense the head of state ends up in a category of officials that already existed. I added him to that at the request of the Chamber, as a subtle concession on a part which I already believe was not at the heart of the legislative proposal. I have done so to ensure that the Chamber has the widest possible sense of satisfaction with this law. Portrait is part of our business. I love the term "servants of public interest."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u105	The term "servants of the public interest" includes politicians and directors. I would like to understand a little more what the petitioner wants when it comes to politicians and administrators. Will there ultimately be a greater measure of punishment for insulting this group or not? I say this because I believe that European case law says that politicians must also have more. I am not talking about threats, I am talking about insults, especially to the politicians.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u106	I'll come up with a summary later. Politicians are in the category of the member of the complaint, so they have to report it themselves. They're in the category three months, so no increase in maximum sentence. They are in this together with you and me, but also with the ordinary citizen who is not a politician. Politicians have the least protection in that respect, you might say. In doing so, I am once again guilty of summing up protection through the two paths I have named, but I will do so in order to satisfy you in terms of content.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u107	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u108	Mr. Chairman. As regards the group of directors, such as mayors and aldermen, and representatives of the people, such as MPs and council members, I have already argued that they should be in a position to decide for themselves whether or not to prosecute for insult. But when it comes to the possibility of a higher maximum prison sentence, which I think is symbolic, I have no problem with it if the position of mayors and aldermen and other directors remains unchanged. But for council members and other representatives of the people, Mrs Buitenweg actually took the words out of my mouth, even a symbolic provision on this point goes too far for me. It is the wrong symbol or symbol to speak with Mr Van der Staaij. It sends the wrong signal. The debate between voters and politicians must not create an uneven playing field. Exactly the same insult over and over again should not lead to a maximum sentence of three months for one and four months for the other. This would send a signal that we are avoiding the social debate for which we were elected. We hide behind a legal wall, would be the signal. I would like to avoid that, because that seems detrimental to confidence in politics and will widen the gap between the electorate and the elected. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Staaij pointed out that in Article 71 of the Constitution, people's representatives are already treated unequally by parliamentary immunity, which means that they cannot be prosecuted for everything they say in a sitting like this. So they can also insult someone with impunity. If, however, the victim becomes so angry that he too falls into insults, why should he be punished higher than the normal one, when the representative of the people concerned cannot be punished at all? Why should it remain unclear whether the MP filed a complaint against him or whether the prosecution was merely an idea of the Public Prosecutor's Office? Mr Segers and Mrs Ploumen have explained that they are not concerned with protecting the person but with the office. Mr Segers also involved the recruitment of council members and the threats posed by mayors. First of all, I note that threats are quite different from insults. I have no indication that insults are an important part of the undermining activities of the drug mafia, for example. I also doubt very much whether the office of the representative of the people would be given a higher standing if insulting them would be punished more severely. It could have the opposite effect. This also applies if the Public Prosecutor can prosecute without a complaint and does so in a specific case. Mr. Chairman. That is why I say that people's representatives are not anonymous. Even if it were true that, in such a case, the people's representative had not filed a complaint and the prosecution was merely an idea of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the people's representative would not be able to hide behind the state's attorney's office. The accusation of 'dive behaviour', Mr Van Dam's secondary traumatic experience, was quickly made. This will be right or wrongly detrimental to the standing of the office. In any case, the gap between the electorate and the elected will not be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u109	I see Mr Van Dam as well, but I want to see how far you are going with the answer to the questions in the first term, and I would like to give you the opportunity to proceed with that. Then I give Mr Van Dam an opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u110	I still have a few answers to questions from the Court on this point, the different categories and the different forms of protection. And finally, as a final point, I turn to public authority and public insult. In the hypothetical case that there are no interruptions, that would be a minute or ten, I think, tops. Do that? Or Mr. Van Dam? It's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u111	I know. I'm looking at you, Mr. Van Dam. Can you wait until Mr... I shouldn't ask you that. In fact, I would like to suggest that Mr Verhoeven finishes his speech. Then you will have the opportunity to ask a question. An interim proposal? Everything is being negotiated here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u112	I had the impression that Mr Verhoeven was done with the representative of the people. What I have not heard as an argument and I have put forward, perhaps he can mention it, is the fact that people's representatives, certainly council members, also take responsibility, unlike other citizens, to step forward and fulfil that function.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u113	That was an interim proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u114	Well, maybe he can pay attention to that, to the council members. Then I'm very satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u115	That's what Mr Verhoeven takes with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u116	Mr Van Dam is right in saying that I am only going under this block on a point by Mr Markuszower about judges. So in that sense, I was at the end of politicians and representatives of the people. Does Mr Van Dam want me to say something about that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u117	Have you been listening? Mr Van Dam has made a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u118	Well, I have to confess to you that I was thinking, now there's some sort of procedural proposal. Then it went to the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u119	That's usually with these kind of intermediate proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u120	I should like to apologise once again for Mr Van Dam's question, because I can answer it as well as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u121	I had the impression that the block of people's representatives was pretty much finished. I would like him to pay a little more attention now or in the next ten minutes to the fact that counselors step forward and take a certain responsibility. Would that not justify giving them additional protection rather than a lesser one?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u122	No, I've really said a lot about that. I think the responsibility to step forward is wonderful, but that also includes entering into the debate with the voters, that sometimes you can have a solid discussion with all the people you want to represent or not. That responsibility also includes the fact that you must be able to bear that there may be an insult.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u123	Please continue. Now the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u124	The rest, Mr. Chairman. That starts with Mr Markuszower on the protection of judges. He claimed that my proposal protects judges extra. That is correct, but to clarify another misunderstanding: they are now, both in terms of punishment and in ensuring their anonymity. He wants to abolish that extra protection. I don't think that's wise. Let me begin by fully endorsing what Mr Groothuizen and Mrs Buitenweg said about this in the interruptive debates with him in the first term. Judges speak through their verdict, not out there. They are wearing a gown to radiate neutrality and to rid themselves of "personality." They're the law. So I think it is a perfectly logical choice to equate them with officials for whom the expiry of the complaint requirement offers the anonymity I was referring to. From them we say: attack them, then it counts extra heavy. That is what I am saying to Mr Van der Staaij. They carry out; they do not choose. Their legal form is interpretation of law, not their personal preference. Moreover, the ECHR, the European Court of Human Rights, states that judges should be extra protected. Mr. Chairman. So that gives us, in summary, the following three categories. No criminal offence and a higher maximum sentence: the head of state and civil servants. Complaint offenders and a higher maximum sentence: drivers. Complaints but no higher maximum penalty: politicians and friendly heads of state and public aid workers in private service. That's the sum of all the different moments we've come out of. For the attentive listener: the combination "no complaint and no higher maximum penalty" exists theoretically, but does not apply to anyone. So that's actually an empty box in the matrix that you could make out of the two articles. Mr. Chairman. My final point concerns public authority and a public institution. I would like to say a few words about that. Mr Van Dam believes that we need the criminalisation of insulting public authority in order to be able to act against the abbreviation that stands for 'all cops are bastards'. However, it is clear from the case law that the offender was simply prosecuted on the basis of Article 266. The discussion in that case was about, among other things, whether the insult was directed against the agent concerned. The national police is a legal entity governed by public law and the insult is also covered by Article 266. I say this in particular and with emphasis on the VVD and the Labour Party. Article 267 is not necessary for this purpose, except in conjunction with Article 269, where the complaint requirement is dropped and the agent concerned may remain anonymous. But that is a very different matter, which we have already discussed. Mr. Chairman. Insulting 'public authority' is what I place in quotes, because that is part of Article 267..... and a public institution is a strange thing in that article. It is contained in an article on increased penalties, but it is essentially a separate criminal offence. Plus: there is a higher penalty limit than in Articles 261 and 262 and 266, the regular articles we have always talked about. It is also a strange duck in the bite because it is not about the insult of a person and not even about the insult of a legal person, but about something abstract, and therefore something agile. So I am not talking about insulting legal persons, because they are simply covered by Article 266. This includes public bodies such as the State, provinces and municipalities, as well as legal entities governed by public law such as many ZBOs and the national police. Such a legal person can only be offended if the unsub is a little bit clear about who he wants to offend. If it is 'public authority', it is completely unclear who or what it is. Criminalisation of insults is contrary to legal certainty. Anyone who insults the government without mentioning a person by name thus runs the risk of being prosecuted for insulting public authority. Why would we want to do that? Do we think that this can improve the image of the government, or that we can ensure that the government gets more trust from the citizen? Or will the effect that will occur here be the same as the result of my fear of prosecutions for insults by representatives of the people, namely that the gap is only widening? I think that's the last one. Where does the idea come from that our government would need criminal law to prevent its authority from being questioned? Does the government have so little self-confidence that it needs this horse medicine? Do we want to be in the company of authoritarian regimes at this point who fear losing power? There, prosecuting for insulting the public authority or the honour of the nation is not uncommonly a means to silence the opposition. Is that the company we want to be in, I ask certain parties. And how do we ultimately plan to balance this with freedom of expression in a democratic society? I don't think that's gonna work. Mr. Chairman. So far, my first-term response. I have tried to make clear my group's position on the points of principle, knowing that convincing is almost impossible here. In practical matters, I have tried to appreciate the suggestions made by the Chamber and to respond to them wherever possible, without compromising the heart of my proposal. And knowing that the proposal has even improved, I thank my colleagues very much for their suggestions. And I have tried to remove misunderstandings by explaining a number of parts better; this because a good reception of the message starts with an optimal transmission. I hope I have managed to satisfy my fellow Members. I am, of course, very interested in the second term. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u125	Thank you. You have defended the position of yourself, because your group will be taking the floor shortly. This is an individual initiative proposal from Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u126	Thank you for this finesse.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u127	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u128	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet took note with great interest of this initiative proposal by Mr Verhoeven. In the first period, a number of questions were asked to me. I will provide them with an answer. I would then like to explain the cabinet's position on the initiative proposal. But please allow me, also in relation to time, to briefly express my particular interest in the historical consideration given in the explanatory memorandum to the bill on majesty desecration. A particularly interesting reflection, which actually shows us how majesty desecration has developed in the Netherlands in the last century and a half. I may have to say that I would have liked to have seen that historian's description of this important subject go back to Roman law, with the crime laesae maiestais. Maiestas was the fullness of power and prestige. That was the insult of the Republic and its institutions. When the emperor took all the key positions in the state, majesty was increasingly seen as an insult to the head of state. In it we see the historical origin of the concept of "majesty desecration." So it is not so much situated in the King as a person, who is equal to all other persons, but in the King as an institution. Perhaps it is precisely in that decision that the insult of a King could have a separate status in criminal law. I thought it appropriate to make this brief introduction, as a concession to those who, today, were still debating each other about what was actually the background to the particular position that majesty desecrated in our criminal law. I refer immediately to the question asked by Mr Van Raak: should we now consider the King as a politician, because he would be a political minister, or is he more comparable to an official, because he has the ministerial responsibility? The King shall, on the basis of the Constitution and the Statute for the Kingdom, assume an entirely separate central position in the state system, including with regard to the stability of administration, the ratification of legislation and the official representation of the Kingdom. It will be clear that the King is neither an official nor a political minister. The King is the head of state, and thus an institution of the state. This must be taken into account when protecting against insult. I shall go back to the cabinet position on this in greater detail. Mr Segers of the Christian Union rightly pointed out that the deletion of Articles 118 and 119 of the Code of Criminal Law, as proposed in the initiative proposal, does not mean that intentional insult of a foreign head of state on official visit to the Netherlands is not punishable in the future. Article 266 simply continues to apply, as it is now, in all situations where insults to a foreign head of state do not take place during an official visit to our country. A complaint from the foreign head of state is necessary for the prosecution of that insult. I see, and of course I am speaking on behalf of the cabinet, no major objections to the abolition of the offences laid down in Articles 118 and 119. International conventions to which the Netherlands is a party merely require that official representatives of other States, in particular diplomats, be given protection against the impairment of their dignity. And with the criminalisation, as stated in Article 266 of the Criminal Code, that protection is a fact. Article 166a of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides that a foreign Head of State may lodge a complaint by diplomatic means. It is therefore no problem if a visiting foreign head of state has now returned to its own country. I have answered the questions put by Mr Van der Staaij. The alternative option suggested by Mr Van der Staaij in the sense of adapting the existing criminalisation of Article 118 of the Criminal Code is not necessary against the background outlined above. Mr Markuszower pointed out that anyone could invoke Rule 266 in the event of insults in our country to his or her address. I do not see why the criminalisation should be limited to Dutch only, as he seemed to suggest. The starting point is that our standards, strengthened by criminal law, apply to everyone in our country. In doing so, we are simply doing justice to Article 1 of our Constitution. The answer to Mr Markuszower's technical question on the cases in which the Public Prosecutor can proceed to prosecution without the complaint of the person insulted depends on the chosen drafting of Article 269 of the Criminal Code. I have understood the initiative proposal and the intention of Mr Verhoeven so far that officials who are victims of insults during the course of their duties do not have to report it. I believe that this is confirmed by the second letter of amendment to the proposal. Then Mrs Buitenweg had another case about demonstrators wanting to be heard on a state banquet where both the King and a foreign head of state is present. If there is any difference in protection, she asked. Now I must tell you that first of all, I do not see why a demonstration should be accompanied by insult. Having said that, on the basis of the initiative proposal, the same description of the offence will apply in the case of insulting the King and in the case of insulting the foreign Head of State. On the basis of the second letter of amendment, insulting the King gives rise to a slightly higher penalty limit. I would like to refer to my introductory remarks on the individual status. Furthermore, the King will not have to file a complaint, but the foreign head of state, possibly through diplomatic channels. Again I refer to the status separate. Mr Groothuizen asked me what lines the criminal demands and punishment for insulting aid workers take in practice. The starting point in the prosecution policy of the Public Prosecutor is that the Public Prosecutor raises a penalty requirement by up to 100% if an official or other officer of authority has been offended during his duties. The points of reference for the penalty measurement, published on case law.nl, which are used by judges in determining the penalty they impose, are in line with this. Here, too, an increase of up to 100% is required for facts committed against a police officer, an extraordinary investigative officer or another supervisor if the crime has been committed during or in relation to the lawful exercise of his or her service, or against a professional aid provider. Think of the fireman, paramedic, doctor, nurse or official in public transport. Think of the bus driver, the driver and the tram driver. This means that we have a firm and comprehensive policy of punishment. Then I come to the cabinet's point of view. The cabinet greatly appreciates the use of the right of initiative by members of the Lower House. It shall require the appropriate commitment of the Member of Parliament concerned. ... I understand Mr Verhoeven's emotions very well. That's why I stopped. It calls for the necessary commitment and I would like to say it out loud again from the Member of Parliament concerned. A lot of respect for that. It also enriches the debate, and this certainly applies to the proposal before us which deals with a socially relevant issue, namely freedom of expression. The initiative proposal seeks to eliminate the offences of majesty desecration, Articles 111 and 113 Criminal law, and insult of a foreign head of state, Articles 118 and 119 Criminal law, and also to limit the grounds for strengthening criminal law under Article 267. It should be made clear that, like the initiator, the cabinet attaches great importance to freedom of expression. It means that the cabinet can support the petitioner's efforts to support criminal provisions which constitute a special restriction on the right to freedom of expression and their usefulness, necessity and proportionality. However, in the opinion of the Cabinet, there are also arguments against the abolition of the crime of majesty. To preserve the king's central position in our constitutional monarchy and to enable the king to fulfil his binding role in society, a protection tailored to that position and role is necessary. This is currently provided by Articles 111 and 113 of the Criminal Code. Thus, it will not unite with the neutral position of the King in our constitutional monarchy nor with the royal dignity that the King himself should in the future complain about an insult directed against the King as an institution or person. The cabinet calls for attention to be paid to these negative consequences. The second letter of amendment submitted by the initiator in response to the questions and the first-term position of various political groups shows that the initiator is aware of the objections raised and intends to find a solution to them. That is to be commended and therefore the cabinet can leave the opinion on the proposal regarding the protection of the King to the Chamber. The cabinet has no major objections to the expiry of the separate criminalisation of insults against a foreign head of state. The general offences of insult offer protection here, on which it could be considered sufficient. Finally, on the advice of the Council of State, the applicant has previously decided to extend the additional protection against insult of officials to judges. Subsequently, by letter of amendment, he also brought the National Ombudsman back under the scope of Article 267 on increased penalties by insult because his position "in the context of the legislative proposal is similar to that of judges'. The cabinet wonders whether additional protection should not also cover other posts and officials because, at the core, any activity of persons in the public service deserves protection, but it can be concluded that this point has been resolved by the second letter of amendment. I'll come to a decision. I made a mid-term compliment on the way in which a Member of Parliament himself takes the initiative and gets to work. I think it is also to be commended that a Member of Parliament is prepared to wring his own initiative in such a way that the reasonable objections raised by the Chamber are taken into account. With that in mind, I think it is very good to stress once again for everyone present that insulting the King remains a criminal offence and that increasing the penalty is precisely before that crime continues to stand in the law and no complaint from the King himself is required. Once again, I think it is worth complimenting that this letter of amendment has been issued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u129	You know how to build up the tension. It's like a jury report.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u130	But it's a fine report, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u131	Yeah, I got that. Mr. Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u132	Mr. Chairman. But there was only one candidate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u133	That's always with individual treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u134	I have two legal questions for the Minister. Firstly, it seems that there is a difference between the penal law we have in the Netherlands and the penal law for the BES islands. Certain elements are contained in one law and not in the other law. I would ask the Minister to look, especially after the possible amendment following the adoption of this initiative proposal, whether these differences are really useful and important and whether we should not possibly remove them. My other point is this. We are talking now in the law and in the proposal about the King, his wife and the heir. But what about, for example, the other princesses who are not the first heir?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u135	With regard to your first point, there was already the intention to examine the remaining differences and how to correct them. I would therefore like to reiterate this commitment. I can return to that in a letter to the Chamber. Then there is the second point. I would almost say that asking the question is answering it. The protection regime, the still special regime, applies to the King, the King's wife, the suspected successor, his husband or the regent, and not to others.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u136	Thank you. We now move on to the second term, unless there is a need for short suspension. I should also like to look at Mr Verhoeven. Do you want a short suspension or do you want to proceed immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u137	I would prefer the following formula: the Chamber will keep its second term, then a pause to recover from all that violence and then finally the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u138	Well, that's not so bad. You can take it. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD. Time's up to three minutes. That's indicative. Sometimes I say "preventive." That is also the case now, but it is a legislative proposal. So if you need a little more time, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u139	Mr President, I am doing my best, but I had just limited my interruptions because I thought that I would include them in my text. First of all, thank you to the author for answering all the questions. I would also like to thank the Minister for answering my questions. This is, of course, about the interaction between freedom of expression and respect for one another. Freedom and respect go together. I'd say freedom and respect reinforce each other. I would also like to pay my respects to Mr Verhoeven. He's done a lot of work here, on a big subject. He's raised some big questions. And he also generously accepted the amendment on the protection of the King that I tabled together with Mrs Kuiken of the PvdA. Your Majesty's desecration, the main subject here. The VVD is very pleased that there would no longer be a five-year prison sentence on insulting the King. That's an exorbitant punishment. It no longer fits in with today's times and is contrary to freedom of expression. But, as we have already said, the King must not press charges on his bike or press charges. I am pleased that this picture has also had its impact on the re-evaluation of the proposal. So I am also pleased that Mr Verhoeven is now proposing, as we first suggested, that the King be placed in the category of servants of the public interest. I thank Mr Verhoeven for that. That is why, on behalf of my colleague, Mr Kuik, I am withdrawing the amendment under No. 11 in, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u140	Let's see, Amendment No. 11? Yes, no. 11, I think, or no. 16?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u141	Let me just say... Mr Van Raak is always right, unless I am more right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u142	The Koopmans/Kuiks amendment (Doc. 11) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u143	Then there is another amendment that I have changed. I'll get to that in a minute. There's another big topic, insulting foreign government members. The VVD fully agrees with the proposal to delete that provision. We don't want President Erdogan's long arm here. This is only true in the current law if he is visiting the Netherlands. But in today's time, it's very difficult to determine. What if Mr. Oppenheimer makes another cartoon, as he did earlier by President Erdogan, a time for President Erdogan's state visit, but that cartoon is still on Facebook? Yeah, is that at the same time? So that's out of control. That is why it is very good that that article should be deleted. No long arm from President Erdogan or others in the Netherlands. Big profit. But then the category of servants of the public interest. The King now joins us; a good thing. In that category there are also agents and mayors, officials in office, council members and so on. Just think, Mr President, what has happened recently to Mayor Aboutaleb, what he has been through. It's okay if he doesn't have to file a complaint about that kind of thing, even if it falls within the category of insult, and doesn't have to file a complaint himself, but the Public Prosecutor's Office does. But then D66 in that category of servants of the public interest makes a very complicated cut operation, and a new one in the second change. I'm just quoting. "With the exception of insult to officials appointed in the office of a single administrative organ or as a member of an organ or college forming part of a legal person established under public law, provided that they do not operate under the responsibility of another administrative organ'. Who's that? And when isn't it, and why? Mr. Chairman. I don't get it, and I also think the person who's about to insult someone doesn't understand that. That is why the second Koopmans/Kuiks amendment. Following the changes made by Mr Verhoeven, I, along with Mrs Kuik, have also made some technical adjustments, but not at all in terms of content. All these people serve the public cause. They are committed to society, to all of us, and that makes them vulnerable. And some are actually at risk, such as cops and soldiers, but also some mayors and officials behind the window.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u144	Before you continue: you have long exceeded your speaking time, not only those three minutes, but also the speaking time you would normally have; that was four minutes, by the way. I'll see you go to another page, but fine, I'll let you know. This is a second deadline, which is often intended to make a kind of concluding contribution and to draw a conclusion, but not to re-open a debate. Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u145	It is not only the one who wants to offend who does not fully understand it, but also this simple representative of the people. There was an amendment by Mr Koopmans and Mrs Kuik. Mr Verhoeven accepted this in his second letter of amendment. And now Mr Koopmans, on behalf of Mrs Kuik, says 'that we are maintaining the amendment', that second amendment. Can he explain very clearly to me what exactly is the difference between the second letter of amendment and the second amendment by Mr Koopmans and Mrs Kuik? 'Cause I don't get it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u146	It's just that those people, those servants of the public interest, don't have to go to the police station to report it themselves. That's the only real difference. People in the position of, for example, agent or mayor do not have to step on their bike, on their scooter or whatever to report it. Let that remain a public prosecutor's jurisdiction. That's the only difference. I think we owe respect to those people who are so committed to the public cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u147	Do you know what you're going to vote, Mr. Van Raak?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u148	No. I have two more factual questions. I am very much in favour of this special regime for people in public office, from kings to cops, but I am not in favour of it being extended to people's representatives. I don't think they belong in there. That is why I am asking Mr Koopmans whether they are now in that regime. My second question is: what happens when the D.A. says "we want to get to work with it, because we find this offensive" when, for example, a politician says "but I'm not waiting for it; I don't need it at all"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u149	We do not cut into the category of servants of the public interest, so anyone who is professionally committed to this is included. But this article is, of course, applied very little in practice and the measure is extremely high. I can imagine, like Mr Van Raak, that when it comes to politicians and other people who have a bit of a political role, such as a mayor or the Ombudsman, judges also set the bar extremely high. But we all agree that very bad things can happen. Then it is good that we do not ask such a person, who is already suffering so much, to go to the window once more to tell him how much misery he has gotten over him, because then it will only get worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u150	And point two?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u151	My response to point two is: the Public Prosecutor will of course always be guided by someone who says 'no need for me'. I assume that's a hugely important consideration for the D.A.'s office. I'd be happy to support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u152	I have a clear question for Mr Koopmans. In fact, Mr Verhoeven's proposal to delete the passage on public authority, public authority or public institution. I understand from Mr Koopmans that he says: I want to put that back in. Can Mr Koopmans then explain to me exactly what he means by "public authority"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u153	We don't want anything new. This is the law as it is now. We do not see any reason for doing a complicated cut operation, as D66 is proposing. The case law on this point is very clear, I think. In my opinion, public authority is hardly involved in this. It's just that you don't make a distinction between: you can't insult the policeman or woman individually, but the police generally do. Because then such a policeman must stand by and wonder: what linguistic construction has this insulter chosen? That's too complicated, so let's not do that. Let's keep the law as it is at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u154	Mr Koopmans says: it is clear what to mean by that, because I did not seek to change the current situation. Then I look at the authoritative text and the commentary. Mr Van der Staaij has the red variant on his desk. I have the printed version here. The first sentence on this point is: "It is not clear what is meant by the term "public authority'." Then I think that Mr Koopmans, as a co-legislator, is leaving an ideal opportunity to resolve a lack of clarity that is now there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u155	This provision has been in place for a long time. For a very long time, Mr Verhoeven would say. We're not gonna change anything about that. What's the purpose of this? The goal is not to distinguish between protecting the policewoman or the firefighter but not the firefighter or the police. That's the added value. I ask Mr Groothuizen: what is the problem? Does he have examples of cases where this suddenly went wrong before the judge, where people complained because they were dragged to court on the basis of a misinterpretation of the concept of "public authority"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u156	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u157	Yes, Mr President, because I believe that Mr Koopmans is struggling in practice with how we should implement that understanding. Is that the government in general, is that a college of mayor and aldermen, is that all? It is now unclear, subject to multiple interpretations. Is "fuck the government" in the eyes of Mr Koopmans an insult to public authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u158	I do not go into all of Mr Groothuizen's fabrications about insult. I don't think that's right. It is clear that there is no case he can mention where this was a specific problem. We've had this law for a long time without any problem. He wants to throw everything overboard now. I say let's keep it that way as long as there's no problem. If it has added value that we don't have to look at whether it's the firefighter or the firefighter in general, then I say, let's not look up any problems. What problem does Mr Groothuizen intend to solve?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u159	Finally, Mr Groothuizen, because I see that the discussion is being repeated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u160	I also notice that, Mr President, but I conclude that Mr Koopmans is relying on the practice that has a different interpretation of what the problem is than Mr Koopmans. I am afraid that we will not be able to advance the discussion in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u161	Thank you. Will you finish up, Mr. Koopmans?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u162	That's right. We don't want a complicated cut, we don't want a linguistic construction assessment by the person being offended at the time. That is why we simply want to maintain the rules in this respect. I believe that the freedom of expression, which we consider to be extremely important from the VVD, comes together with the respect in society, which we also consider very important. We owe that to the King, cops, firefighters and everyone. If we can do that, then we are a whole lot further. Then we also protect all those servants of the public interest. Finally, I am very happy to include Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u163	Thank you, Mr. Koopmans. I am going to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u164	Mr. Chairman. It is a festive day, a day of satisfaction for Domela Nieuwenhuis, who said that the King makes so little of his job and then went to prison. A fine day of satisfaction for the founder of socialism and by a liberal. It's not a party today, Mr. Chairman, it's a double party today. We will wholeheartedly support the bill, including the special provisions on insulting a friendly head of state. I'm very much in favour of abolishing it, because, yeah, how close is a head of state if you can't insult it? I do have one more question because it's all a bit complicated in legal terms. We have a letter of amendment, an amendment, another letter of amendment and another new amendment. As a simple representative of the people, I don't see the forest all the way through the trees. What I can agree with is that the King will be subject to the same regime as all other people with a public task, because you cannot insist that the King has no public task. Even Ferdinand Domela Nieuwenhuis would think so. What I have a problem with is that people's representatives would have the same kind of protection. You don't have to do that for me. I believe that people's representatives deserve the same protection as the people. So, yes, what am I going to vote for now, for the second letter of amendment by Mr Verhoeven or for the second amended amendment by Mr Koopmans and Mrs Kuik? I still don't know exactly, but hopefully someone in this room can tell me what's going on. I wish Mr Verhoeven every success in the Senate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u165	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u166	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Verhoeven for his enthusiastic response. There was, of course, the necessary rhetorical fireworks, as we are used to from Mr Verhoeven. When he began with the division of the old-fashioned authoritarian approach and the liberal contemporary approach, I immediately remembered the artifacts of Arthur Schopenhauer in the eristic dialectic that indeed says: try to simplify to his own advantage in complex discussions by creating a division of views and thereby providing his own view with a positive label. Well, this was an excellent example. I've been digging into these tricks. To be clear: not to handle them themselves, but to discover them with colleagues. And by the government, not to mention. Then to the content. I don't think now is the time to repeat it all again. We have had an extensive debate. It is a good thing that there has been a movement in substance following objections from a number of political groups in the Chamber, especially at the point where any special protection of the King would be lacking, other than those held by public officials or civil servants. However, I would ask Mr Verhoeven to comment on one serious point for me. That is the question as to what, apart from responding to the Court's objections, in terms of consistent and identifiable reasoned legislation, his arguments are to maintain, contrary to the original legislative proposal, a certain form of special protection. I would also like to hear his reaction on the subject of legal history. Finally, with appreciation of the improvements made to the original legislative proposal, my group's position remains negative on balance, from the point of view: what problem will this solve? In the end, does this proposal not create more confusion on a number of fronts than it provides clarity? That is why my group will not support this proposal. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u167	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u168	Thank you, Mr President. We are having a debate in principle today, despite all the seriousness, but also the lumen that we have here. I think it is basically about how you look at authority, authority and institutions in our society. It is nice to see that, if you take a certain point of view, you immediately get the sticker that you are old-fashioned. Well, here's a proud old-fashioned man when it comes to this point. 'Cause I think we, as CDA, really look at our royal family differently from D66. For us, our King is not a man from Wassenaar who performs special activities during office hours in our State. No, it's about the institution of kingship. As a CDA, we see the King as an essential institution in our democratic rule of law. It is precisely that that justifies the continued existence of a separate criminalisation of insulting the King in our code of conduct. Not a provision that protects the integrity of the King's private person or that focuses on the person of the King and his function. No, it's about the dignity of kingship. That's what it's important to protect. With all due respect for the response of the initiator and for all the work he has done, I fear that we look at it fundamentally differently. We have talked today about signals being transmitted. I heard that the initiator found something of a certain framing on the part of the Christian Union and the SGP. Fortunately, I was not the target at the time, but let us be realistic: on your side too, this framing is not missing. You have not given any consideration to the way in which European case law is already being applied, even in the case of insulting the King. It is fantastic that Domela Nieuwenhuis is being taken from this house again today, but let's face it: if Domela Nieuwenhuis had been in court today with the same accusation, he would not have been convicted and he would simply have been acquitted, given the changed European jurisdictional insights. Another point that has not been raised at all is the question of what significance the effectiveness of the principle of opportunity has for persecuting or not prosecuting people if they want it or not. In this respect, the absence of an opinion from the Public Prosecutor's Office and from the case law is actually a disgrace to this legislative process. Finally, two things. Point one about the private aid provider. I am very glad that I misunderstood all of this, and I am even more pleased that the author, despite the fact that I misunderstood, has fundamentally modified his proposal. If that is the effect of my misunderstanding, then I hope in your Chamber very often to misunderstand things. The second point is the issue of the representatives of the people. I think it is a genuine D66 idea that people's representatives should not be protected other than the people themselves. I see that the initiator, especially in the last election campaign, has been a consistent man in it himself, let me put it this way. But for us as CDA, this extra protection is very heavy for people who are not professional politicians in The Hague, who are not permanently supported by informers and perhaps even by security guards. People who do their jobs alongside their other jobs, close to the raw emotion of citizens: it is very difficult for us that the additional protection they now have will fall, as well as the fact that they do not have to file that complaint. These are things that weigh very heavily on us, and that leads, in addition to the other things I have already said, to our conclusion that we cannot support this bill. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u169	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. I now give the floor to Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the initiator for answering the first-term questions. The initiator wants to arrange, by means of a letter of amendment, for both the King and the Directors to be treated as civil servants, including judges, in terms of punishment. As I said in the first term, my group believes that judges do not need additional protection. Judges, directors and us, representatives of the people, are public figures who are interfering in the public debate. They have to be able to take a punch. That is why my group proposes, by means of an amended amendment which I am going to table later today or tomorrow, that judges should be treated as the legislative and executive powers in terms of increased penalties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u171	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u172	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would also like to thank the author and the Minister very much for the answer. I thought that Mr Verhoeven managed to make this a very exciting debate. You also said it, Madam President, as if something really was at stake. But I could actually agree with what Mr Ploumen said last time: if I had to mention a top five of things that I really think are important and for which I am going to be very hard on myself during this period of government, it was just not there. That is because I do not think it is a huge problem, but it is an interesting debate in principle. I think the proposal is good, too. I also fully support Mr Verhoeven in saying that there will be an end to the immensely high penalty which is now at least in the Code of Criminal Law for the insult of the King. I also found it striking how much scoring drive there was in this, that everyone wanted to have the credits for certain changes, and that is why a battle really broke and that a huge claim was made on everything. I find the solution that Mr Verhoeven has now chosen to include the King among servants of the public interest interesting. To be honest, I was rather more interested in his original view that the King should also be able to really be taunted. I think so, too. I mean, you're a public body, you have a public function, you can really be kicked into it. Of course, that doesn't have to be an invitation to insult, but I really think you should be able to take something more than a punch. I understand Mr Verhoeven's manoeuvre, and I think my group will be able to support it when it comes to the overall package. Mr Van Raak asked whether or not extra protection is offered to politicians. I understand that is not the case. I would also like to hear that from Mr Verhoeven, because I think it is important that people's representatives have the same protection as the people, because they should also be able to speak with each other. This is something different from that of the other ministers, who have been assigned a particular task, from us or from other representatives of the people. They're supposed to have extra protection. We must, of course, make a distinction between insult and threat. That's what I just said, but it was about to get mixed up again when reference was made to Mr Aboutaleb and the threats or alleged threats of Fawaz Jneid. Of course, this is not about insult and the delicate soul of Aboutaleb, but it is about the need for security. I therefore insist that we continue to make a distinction between them. However, in the proposals, drivers are also protected from insult.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u173	Mr Koopmans, you may briefly explain what Mrs Buitenweg has just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u174	Does Mrs Buitenweg agree with me that some threats may come in the form of a very serious insult that has more implications for the intended intelligible than for the unintended intelligible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u175	Sure. I have said, even now, that there is also a certain level of protection for drivers. Yet there is a real difference and ultimately it is up to the judge to determine whether there is a threat. Of course, we had a whole debate on this yesterday. All in all, I think Mr Verhoeven has done an important job. I'm glad he listened to the Chamber. My group will look into this, but I do not think it is very exciting to say that we are going to support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u176	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u177	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, a word of thanks to the initiator and his support for the comprehensive response today and for the defense of the bill. Mr President, in my first term I have tried to remove some misunderstandings. Thus there was broad thought that the King would have to make a declaration on the bike. I have to conclude that I did not fully succeed in my intention. Mr Koopmans tweeted last week that he had solved the King's problem on his bike and he repeated those words here in this Chamber today. And that, when that problem was actually not a problem at all and never really was under discussion. In fact, the law said and remains that everyone, including the King, can authorize someone to report it on his behalf. That has never been in question. And that report can also be made in writing. So Mr Koopmans has actually solved a non-existent problem. But, Mr President, let me not dwell too long on this kind of persistent misunderstanding and the 'claim culture', as Mrs Buitenweg said. At the heart of this bill is the deletion of the special penalty clause for insulting the King and thus the disproportionately high sentence of five years in prison, a high fine and possible loss of the right to vote. The same goes for insulting a friendly head of state. There is currently a substantial two-year prison sentence and also a fine. That is the essence of the proposal and my group fully supports it. As for D66, every man is equal before the law. The reason for punishing certain people more severely than other people in society must then be very serious, especially in view of the importance of freedom of expression. Power must always be able to be criticised. This bill therefore fits in with the idea of a modern kingship. As far as I am concerned, Mr Verhoeven rightly states that you cannot shape modern kingship with antique laws. It is therefore a good thing that we are going to bring the old provisions that we are talking about today up to date. Mr President, I will conclude. This bill touches on a number of fundamental aspects and questions of our democratic rule of law: freedom of expression, equality before the law, and standards and values. I believe that the initiator of his proposal has done justice to one of the priorities of D66, namely to combat unnecessary restrictions on freedom of expression. I therefore hope that the proposal will be approved by your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u178	Thank you. Mr Koopmans is going to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u179	Mr President, I would like to ask whether Mr Grothuizen and, through him, Mr Verhoeven would like to accept my compliment. Because the King who had to report on his bike or file a complaint was indeed in the original proposal. The King had to actively declare that he was insulted. That has now been adapted to the letter of amendment in accordance with what I proposed with Mrs Kikkie. For that, my compliments. But it's a compliment because something happened. Will Mr Grothuizen therefore accept this compliment? Does he agree with me that something has indeed happened and that he has accepted that amendment in material terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u180	Accepting some compliments, I think, is more dangerous than taking an insult! The same applies to this category, I think. Mr Koopmans is simply wrong. As I told him, the current law, the Code of Criminal Procedure, Articles 163 and 164, says how to file a complaint and file a complaint. There has never been in it that it was on the road that the King should go on a bike to do so. If he says that the King should take an active action, he may be, but then Mr Koopmans should have been more careful in the debate and that also fits in with a parliamentary debate on such a complex issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u181	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u182	I don't know if the King actually has a bike. I merely said that, under Mr Verhoeven's proposal, the King would suddenly have to file a complaint himself. I'm glad you don't have to anymore. That's great! Thank you, I say to Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u183	Therefore, it is not always useful to tweet during a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u184	Those are wise words, Mr President. And I repeat...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u185	Mr President, I did not tweet during the debate. I would like that corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u186	Oh, after the debate, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u187	I didn't put that in Mr Koopmans' mouth either. It was five days ago, Mr President, not during a debate. But Mr Koopmans overlooks...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u188	Not good either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u189	... that the current legislation already provides that you can empower someone, both for declaration and for complaint, and that you can do so in writing. So the image of the King on the bike leaving in the middle whether the King has a bike, a moped or any other vehicle is simply incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u190	Thank you. It is good that the debate is being held here and not on Twitter. We have come to the end of the second term of office. I would like to make the proposal to suspend, also because Mr Verhoeven needs it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-04-tweedekamer-4.u191	I want to suspend until 1:40 p.m., and then we'll have the settlement first. Until 1:45? Come on. Then we'll have the arrangement, Mr Verhoeven, and then it's your turn.
