ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. He's replacing the Minister of Finance. Mr Paternotte's question concerns the Schiphol boss' statement that the airport does not want more women than men on the board; that is my summary. I call Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. It must not become a woman: that is a good summary. Schiphol-CEO Jos Nijhuis was clear: enough has already been done for the women's business. The balance on the board would be lost if a majority were female. I fell off my chair reading this Friday. I don't think I was the only one. For almost 100 years, Schiphol has been led by almost all men, but now we run the risk of the balance getting lost. You can translate that into "fun that women's empathy, but it shouldn't go too crazy and lead to the situation that women think they can really be the boss." And yes, Mr President, the same evening it was announced that a man was indeed nominated by the Supervisory Board. This is really annoying for him, too. You'd just be the director of Schiphol and you'd be under suspicion that you only got that top job because you're not a woman. The man because he has to. Or in chic terms: the pardonarçon. I would like a clear response from the Minister to the pronounced preference for a man. Mr. Chairman. This is not about the candidate himself. It's about how the Schiphol administration could have the idea that it would become a man anyway. Jos Nijhuis, the director, said a number of things about this, for example that in "equal suitability" the term "suitability" would be preferable to a man. We know the term "equal suitability" from job profiles. In this case, the job profile is approved by the Minister of Finance, but there is nothing in it about a man's preference. Has there been any other communication with the Ministry about a man's preference? If so, how did the Minister react? It is said that women have been approached, but how is it that no female candidate entered the procedure? Is this just a coincidence? How could the impression at Schiphol Airport have created that it should be a man? The Minister has asked for an explanation, but will he also address Schiphol on this bizarre signal to all women in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I thank Mr Paternotte for asking the questions. I would like to start by repeating the statement made by Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen of I and W on Friday before the Council of Ministers. She said it's "total bullshit" that no woman could be named because there would already be two women at Schiphol. She ended up with, "I think it's an idiot statement." I like to join those words. Mr Paternotte has asked a number of valid questions. The decision of the CEO of Schiphol has led to a discussion about the appointment process for the new CEO. The Schiphol Supervisory Board informed the Minister of Finance of the appointment process both orally and in writing. That happened Friday afternoon. He sent a letter to your Chamber yesterday, together with a memo from the Supervisory Board of Schiphol, explaining the process and the commotion that arose. Unfortunately, the Minister of Finance is now in Brussels for Ecofin, which is why I am standing here, but he states in his letter that he considers the diversity of the administration and of the state's participation as a whole to be of great importance and that he actively sends it. In the case of State participations, on average, women are significantly more on the board of directors or supervisory boards than in listed companies. Nevertheless, it is also important in the case of state participations to draw attention to the proportion of women on the board of directors and the supervisory board, so that it goes up. At Schiphol, the Supervisory Board is responsible for the appointment of members of the Executive Board. It is a so-called structure company, because there are also private shareholders. The Minister of Finance is consulted on this as a shareholder. In other words, the Supervisory Board is really in the lead. The job profile has been aligned with the Minister of Finance. Following the contact that the Minister of Finance had with the Supervisory Board on Friday, the Supervisory Board announced that the search for the new CEO was conducted in a fair, careful and gender-neutral manner. The Minister thus has the confidence that the process has gone well. Mr Paternotte has asked a number of specific questions. The job profile is based on a gender-neutral profile, as you could also read in the memo that the Supervisory Board had sent with the letter from the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answer. I understand from this that in any case there has been no exchange with the minster of finance in any way that the preference could go to a man. I also think it is right that the Minister should go wider, because of course there are two things that are at stake here. Discrimination against women in a company where the government is the largest shareholder is doubly painful. It is also about the signal that this gives to all young women in the Netherlands who hope that they are the first generation for whom the sky is the limit and that does not determine the glass ceiling where they can end up. This Minister has taken a very important step towards this with the extension of maternity leave for fathers and co-mothers, as recently announced at the Nine-Month Fair. If you look at the state participations, the limit of at least 30% women on boards of companies such as TenneT, NS and Bank Dutch Municipalities is only reached at just over half. In other words, the rest is still a man's bollocks. These are slightly better figures than those in business, but they are absolutely not impressive. It is good that the Minister recognises the importance, but what additional steps does he intend to take to ensure that our state participations will meet the legal objective? Is he prepared to say that this role of "consultation" is sometimes used to promote emancipation and sometimes to approve the profile we have in appointments to state participations? Does the Minister consider that half of our state participations have lost their balance on the board of directors? It almost always contains more men than women.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. As I said in my first reply, the Minister for Finance, when it comes to state participation, pays attention to the appointment of more women on the board of directors and the supervisory board. State participations score better than other listed companies, but still not enough. This also fits in with a broader picture, for which another minister, Minister van Engelshoven for Education, Culture and Science and for Emancipation, asked for attention on International Women's Day last week and on which she also sent a letter to the Chamber, namely that targets have been set for 2020 for the proportion of women on the board of directors and the supervisory board, and that there is still a big catch-up to be made in the coming years in order to achieve those targets. It has announced that if this fails, and that sounds threatening, firm measures will be taken to increase the proportion of women on the board of directors and the supervisory board not only in the case of State participations but also in the case of listed companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u7	You have 30 seconds, Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u8	The question I still have is the following. Where the State has a role in appointments, which is often the case with state participations, depending on the exact share we have in the process, my question is whether we always use that role to promote emancipation and never to counter it, or whether we will not cooperate with a profile in which, in any way, more balance is sought in a particular governance that can lead to a preference for a man.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u9	Sure. I can be brief about that: sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you. I was looking for that clarity. I am very pleased that the Minister is making such a firm statement. I see that my speaking time is up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u11	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is an important issue to pay attention to. Everyone was shocked by Mr Nijhuis' statement, and that is right. As far as we are concerned, it really shows a culture in which there is apparently fear in a male-dominated sector that there are too many women in top positions. And that maintains a status quo. This is a status quo where, at present, only 20% of those positions in state holdings are held by women.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u15	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u16	Then there is the question of what the Minister is going to do about this in concrete terms. Will there be a concrete action plan to change this and, if so, could there be a further appointment of a member of the board of directors of a State participation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr. Chairman. Here I am avenged that I am not responsible for the substance of this area, but I do know a few things that I have received from the answer here. In the most recent state participations, three women have been appointed to the Supervisory Board or the Board of Directors, precisely because of this focus, which is really explicitly addressed in the State participation policy, for which the Minister of Finance is responsible, and which the Minister of Finance also takes into account in the appointment of directors and supervisors. Indeed, the last three appointments went to women because of this focus. By the way, at Schiphol, half of the board consists of women. That is, of course, positive. That is not to say that this leads to another appointment, so that must necessarily be a man; absolutely not. I have just said that to Mr Paternotte. However, the Minister of Finance has given explicit attention to this in the State participation policy. This is also stated in the Note State Participation Policy, which forms part of the regular policy. I would advise you to take this point back to the Minister of Finance next time in the debate on state participations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you. Let us now turn to Mr Omtzigt's question on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u19	And I can answer that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-13-tweedekamer-4.u20	Yes. About the report that the IRS is afraid of bullets. That sounds very intense.
