ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the initiator, Mrs Dijkstra, and the Minister for Medical Care and Sport to the First Chamber. I would remind the Chamber that the examination of the bill last week, 30 January 2018, was suspended after the first deadline, pending a letter from the initiator. The First Chamber received this letter on 2 February 2018. We have now reached the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u2	I call Mr Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. This debate is about a choice being made. This is crucial in this debate. This debate is not about for or against organ donation, but about making a choice as to whether or not to donate organs. A choice that must be made entirely on a voluntary basis. The initiator says that what you choose is open to you, that you can always change your choice and that the potential donor's own wish is thus implemented, but doesn't the initiator realize that this only applies to a clearly registered "no" but not to a government assumed no objection? Because a supposedly no objection has nothing to do with a desire of your own. There can be many people who have absolutely not wanted to make or have been able to make a choice and may even have chosen not to be registered at all. Then you can't say that everyone is free to choose what they choose? The government has determined that there are only two flavors. "No objection" is a forced and imposed choice. Then that's just coercion that has nothing to do with free choice, right? Surely organs could be excluded from people who have never actually chosen to do so because they have chosen a different taste? Does the initiator agree with me that 'no objection' is a forced and imposed choice that has nothing to do with a free choice? If not, why not? All contributions to the debate raise the question as to whether the introduction of the ADR system and the expected increase in the number of donors is worth limiting an important fundamental right, control, or the right of self-determination and inviolability of the individual body of people, and whether there are no other means or possibilities to achieve the goal, more organ donors. The so-called accompanying policy was mentioned. My group believes that our individual fundamental rights should not be restricted to a law that will offer little relief in terms of getting more donors, transplants and organs. Also relatives whose next of kin is threatened to become donors because they have not registered will not be able to accept organ donation by their next of kin by the ADR system. The author's letter states, however, that it is not the intention of the legislator in this proposal to make this situation possible to the survivors as to what the deceased's wish is to be consistent with the current situation in the event of non-registration, in which consent should be sought from the survivors. This shows that next of kin are at the mercy of a professional doctor and a good health care professional. In the event that the survivors are in serious psychological distress, for example, the professional doctor with good care will choose to give priority to the concerns of the survivors. But what's serious? Is the wish of the next of kin not being respected if it is not serious? Highly educated, assertive and mature relatives are generally able to say very well and convincingly why donations should not be made, but unfortunately this is not the case for everyone. The present bill provides the possibility for the survivors to make it plausible that a yes or no objection does not correspond to the wishes of the persons concerned. But what's plausible? The family that can't make that plausible, but is convinced that the deceased family member doesn't want to be an organ donor, may get into a conflict with the doctor. It'll be a fight between doctor and family. That's not what one should want, is it? The practice is unbearable. Blinding on the professional behaviour of the doctor and good helperhood is too non-binding. More influence of next of kin does justice to both donor and next of kin and can be seen as a flanking policy under current legislation. Survivors have the last word according to the applicant's letter, but they do not decide whether or not to donate. The initiator focuses on getting more donors or organs. Precisely what donation means, both for donors and for survivors, is avoided. The public is therefore not fully informed and this prevents an informed choice of whether or not to donate an organ. The Minister and the initiator want concrete information in visual stories. They consider this important and want to make serious work of it, with the aim of achieving more donors. In campaigns, the initiator only wishes to point out the consequences of the law if one does not react. Everything is focused on getting more donors. That is one-sided information. There have been campaigns before and even a real donor show at public service broadcasting. All with the aim of recruiting more donors, but with little concrete result. I wonder why. Could it possibly have something to do with the fact that people do not want to choose consciously in such complicated and far-reaching medical-ethical issues? I ask the initiator and the Minister to work on the fair, objective, complete and understandable information of potential donors and potential relatives about what they can deal with. This is to ensure that potential donors will then perhaps come to intrinsic choices. Why is it difficult to achieve such a thing, as the Minister said last week, when the same minister said at the same time that he considers it important? I have not heard from the initiator and from the Minister how they can possibly shape this. Or isn't that what they're planning at all? If not, why not? Or are we still more interested in achieving more donors than in stimulating and implementing a broad, informative social and public debate? The current system is very good to live with when the information on the donor is presented in full and fairly The minister and the initiator did not discuss this last time, in combination with adequate, pragmatic, accompanying policies and protocols, adapted to healthcare practice, for professionals on how to act. Could this be optimised? This will avoid new legislation, save 65 million in health care and then 7 to 8 million every year, and continue to respect the fundamental rights of every citizen. This will indemnify survivors from the pressure that will undoubtedly be placed on them once the ADR system has been implemented. Does the Minister see this as a possible solution with the knowledge of the present situation? If not, why not? In her reply, the initiator also responded only to the need for more organs or donors and said that there are more people for donation than studies indicate. So my question to the initiator is: why is it that in practice fewer people register? Could that perhaps have something to do with the fact that one cannot or does not want to choose on such medical-ethical issues, when it really comes to it? Of 60%, no choice is known. Can the initiator imagine that a large proportion of this 60% simply does not want to make a choice and that after the introduction of the ADR system, the question remains whether people will make a choice independently and actively? If not, why not? We live in a free country and we are proud of our democracy. The free choice of whether or not to want to be a donor is paramount. The State is never competent and should never be empowered or empowered to fill in "no objection" for someone who does not want to make a choice to donate or not. Being against the ADR does not mean that someone is against organ donation, but against a forced, imposed choice by the government. That's crucial. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to take this opportunity. I asked the Minister a question last week. The answer was that people who are not registered in the Basic Registration Persons are not eligible for organ donation. I want to correct something and the question remains. It is not about people who are not registered in the BRP, but about people who are misregistered in it. My question to the Minister remains: what are you going to do about it? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Van Kesteren. I give the floor to Mrs Baay-Timmerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the initiator for her letter of 2 February last, in which she goes into the position of the next of kin in the new legislative proposal. It addresses the many questions raised in this Chamber during last week's debate. First of all, as in the current law on organ donation, the survivors who themselves have serious objections to organ donation can cross the choice of "yes, I want to become a donor," but also the choice not to respond to the registration request, which puts their loved ones in the category of "no objection." It is, therefore, explicitly established that the serious objection of the next of kin would mean that organ donation would not be carried out. Please confirm that I understood this correctly. The serious psychological need of the next of kin is decisive in this respect, as is currently the case in the current legislation. Will, in the case of several relatives, the serious psychological distress in only one of them also be able to decide not to give up organ donation? This question was asked on Sunday in the programme Buitenhof to Dr Farid Abdo, who replied in the affirmative. I would like to hear from the initiator whether she has reached the same conclusion. Then I come to making the deceased's wish plausible by the next of kin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u6	I would like to ask Mr Baay, on the basis of what she has just said, whether she can imagine that not having a right of veto but having a decisive vote could be legally sustainable. There is, of course, little light between having a right of veto and having a decisive vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u7	I will come back to that later. It concerns the difference between the legal consent as required at present and the consent of the next of kin, which replaces the consent in this initiative proposal. If you don't mind, I'll come back to that later. I was talking about making the decedent's wish plausible. Every citizen's wish for organ donation must be decisive. In the Netherlands, no one should become an unintended or unintentional donor. In an ideal world, any citizen with a clear choice of yes or no could avoid all uncertainties for doctors and relatives. But the ideal world doesn't exist. Otherwise, no 9 million people would have made a choice. Yesterday, I was approached by Mrs Danielle Conen, who drew my attention to the impossibility of registering for them a donor registration in the current donor register as a legal representative of her underage children under the age of 12. Article 11 (3) of the Organ Donation Act assumes that parents exercising parental power are alive. But when both parents crash with their minor children at the same time, it is no longer up to the legal representatives, but to the random relatives to make it plausible to the minor children whether or not they want to be organ donors. Mrs. Conen indicated that this was highly undesirable. She called this a gap in the current law, but also in the initiative proposal. Is the Minister aware of this gap in legislation? Shouldn't parents already be given the opportunity to record the choice of organ donation for their underage children in the donor registry? Can the initiative proposal include this possibility for parents? In the present bill, the possibility exists for the next of kin to make it plausible that this is an unspecified term "non-objection" that the potential donor's wish does not correspond to the registration "yes I want to become a donor" or the registration "no objection." In the letter of 2 February, the applicant states: "Even if the person concerned is registered as a person who has consented to or raised no objection to organ donation, a doctor may choose to depart from it if he is confronted with such serious concerns of survivors." The doctor may therefore also choose not to deviate from the registration if he does not notice a serious psychological emergency or if the next of kin cannot make it sufficiently plausible that the wish does not correspond to the registration. In that case, the registration "no objection" is and remains decisive for the doctor. In my view, the initiator rightly assumes that registration of an explicit 'yes' for the survivors is easier to accept, even if the survivors themselves have objections to organ donation in the category of no objection. In most cases, about 90% to 95%, the next of kin will honour this explicit yes for organ donation, as is already the case under current legislation. For relatives who are confronted with the doctor's announcement that their loved one is registered as "no objection', the so-called "presumed consent', the doubt will remain, because in the latter case it is very often impossible to determine why someone is registered as such. Is this a conscious choice or is this because the one who never understood what not registering actually has consequences? Will the next of kin at the time of the great grief and all the emotions associated with it actually not be able to interpret the term as factual: the one who has not made a choice for registration? Or are they based on the literal text, namely: my dear one had no objection to full organ donation, whether it is intended for transplantation or for scientific research? Will and can a doctor in the conversation with the next of kin sufficiently indicate the difference between an explicit yes registration and the registration "no objection" so that the next of kin also have the space and opportunity to appreciate the presumed consent of a loved one? Will the distinction between donation for transplantation and scientific research also be addressed? I'd like an explanation. Mr. Chairman. I understand from the above-mentioned letter from the initiator that the doctor is ultimately assessing whether the criterion of serious psychological distress of the survivors is met and whether the criterion of probability that the registration does not correspond to the potential donor's wishes is met and whether his decision is based on it or whether organ donation is being made. But on the other hand, the initiator states in her letter: "If relatives have emotional objections, this will be decisive in the implementation practice. In fact, the next of kin have the last word, although they do not have a formal right of veto." Thus: no consent, but consent of the next of kin is required for organ donation. And there he is, the crux. Mr President, if I sum it up in my own words, the doctor will therefore formally have the legal authority to take the final decision on organ donation, where the doctor can and will be guided by information from the next of kin. I would like to hear from the initiator whether I have said this correctly. Then I have one more question. Initiator writes: instead of asking for the consent of the next of kin, the standard institution, which the legislator would now foresee, is that the deceased can become a donor with no objection. But is this really right? After all, in the category "no objection" you are supposed to have no objection, the aforementioned presumed consent. So the no-objection registration doesn't mean you can become a donor, it means you're a donor. The doctor treats this registration in the same way as an explicit yes registration. Does the initiator agree with this conclusion? Then I'll get the protocols. Our group welcomes the fact that the overarching protocols aim at uniformity in the position of the survivors and doctors. Not only the mandatory protocol laid down by the hospital administration determines the doctor's position vis-à-vis the surviving doctor, but also the fixing of the so-called field standard............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to the issue of the necessary and necessary information campaigns to be organised when this legislative proposal is adopted. Extensive and extensive it was said last Tuesday that possibly essential information will not reach everyone. Suggestions regarding repeated provision of information on organ donation are of crucial importance to 50PLUS, whether that information is given when applying for a passport, a driving licence, a visit to the general practitioner or, as letter writers suggested, in the annual tax return or in the four-yearly call for participation in elections. Can the Minister promise that this information will actually continue to be repeated and repeated? Can the Minister indicate the duration of this information campaign? Is this time-limit linked, for example, to the time-limit for evaluation? And what budget is reserved for this? Is that the EUR 65 million mentioned before? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u8	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I give the floor to Mr Diederik van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Long ago it was a well-known text on Roman cups "memento mori": remember to die of it. Also in the light of organ donation a wise call. And quite specifically, that several groups, but also the performer, stated how sensible it is when people think about their own death and its consequences. The Bible underlines this by stressing that dying means meeting God. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Dijkstra and the Minister have responded to the many questions. Thank you for that. However, their response does not remove the pain points. The answer, with all due respect, was too high in good intentions and emotions and much less convincing legitimacy for the government to enforce a personal choice of organ donation, as proposed today. As pain points I briefly point out: the position of the next of kin. I note that there is now an explanation of the bill in which the Scylla will always be the doctor's starting point and an explanation, the Charybdis, where next of kin actually have the last word. I think that a legislator is obliged to provide a clear legal framework, not to wish for a great deal of wisdom between these Scylla and Charybdis. I would also like to mention the position of the unskilled, actually incompetent and illiterate, for which no solution is provided. And finally, in this list I mention the supposed effectiveness. The question remains whether this new decision-making system will lead to substantially more donors. The biggest pain point for the SGP is the flawed foundation of this bill: everyone becomes a donor, unless you expressly object to it. Organ donation is such a personal, far-reaching decision that the government cannot rely on the principle of silence. If you keep quiet, consent is a particularly useful mechanism if you ask if everyone wants coffee, but not when it comes to removing your guts. Such an automatic system would mean a risky erosion of Article 11 of the Constitution. And it is intriguing that the groups that are tirelessly calling for respect for, for example, the fundamental rights of terrorists and the like, can be so simply overstepped when it comes to removing your organs without explicit consent. The removal of any cheek mucus appears to be a greater infringement of physical intouchability than the removal of organs from someone who has not given permission to do so. Mr. Chairman. For every human being, he has his own responsibility and a personal freedom that the government and public opinion must remain outside. And that is something that traditionally links liberal politicians and Christian politicians: the attachment to a state-free atmosphere against an intrusive government. That is why we need to preserve this essential function of classical fundamental rights, namely to provide protection against public authorities. This bill does not adequately respect the principle of limited scope of government power and allows the government to penetrate into the most intimate privacy. Organ donation: yes. Organ annexation: no. The SGP is therefore voting against this bill, and we are doing so unanimously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I give the floor to Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If we look back at the first term of the debate on Mrs Dijkstra's legislative proposal, it is clear that everyone in this Chamber would want every Dutchman to be willing and able to determine his own will in terms of donorship and to record it in the Donor Register. All spokesmen have expressed their compassion with those who wait for a donor body and expressed their appreciation for the initiator and others who are committed to increasing the number of donors. In the first period, it has already been discussed that transplant care is part of the necessary and collective health care and that it is therefore a responsibility of the government to promote access to this care. Not only in this Chamber but also in society, opinions are divided on what the government can and may do to increase the number of registrations in the Donor Registry and the number of potential donors. In recent weeks, I have noticed that a positive effect of media attention on the debate on the Active Donor Registration Bill is that there is talk of donorship in families, at school and at work. My group very much hopes that this will lead to people showing their close friends how they look at this subject and record their wish in the Donor Register. Mr. Chairman. My group thanks the Minister and, above all, the initiator for the answers given in the first term, and the initiator specifically for sending the letter of 2 February last, in which she explained how she looked at the division of roles between the potential donor, the next of kin and the doctors in transplant care. My group welcomes this letter. Of course, there are points in the letter which require further clarification. I will come back to that later in my contribution. Mr. Chairman. As I indicated in the first term, for the members of the PvdA Group, a crucial point is that we must prevent people who do not want to become donors. This starts with adequate information on everything that people consider relevant when it comes to donorship. This information must also be tailored to meet the information needs of all people. The information obligations should ensure that precise, comprehensible and accessible information on organ donation is provided in such a way that the person who is being registered understands the information and the consequences of non-registration sufficiently. My group is pleased that the initiator and the Minister recognize that this will require a lot of time and attention not only now but also in the years to come. We welcome the Minister's commitment that he will take care of this when the legislative proposal is adopted. Mr. Chairman. We believe it is important that information should focus specifically on the use of donor organs and tissues for scientific research. Especially now that the bill states that if people do not include their will in the Donor Register, they will not object to both organ donation and the use of scientific research bodies. Both must be dealt with in information. If the Minister is prepared to say so, the question is from the PvdA Group. In the first term, my group asked that the AMvB, which is prepared in the light of Article 33 of the Organ Donation Act, be placed before this Chamber. The answer to this question was not quite clear to my group. Would the Minister confirm that he is actually going to refer the AMvB to this Chamber? I can see the Minister's nodding. Mr. Chairman. As far as the quality of information is concerned, my group has another question to the Minister concerning the provision of information and support to people with reduced 'doing capacity'. For people with a slightly intellectual disability, mental problems and/or debts, information needs a tailor-made approach, as well as for those who, as the minister pointed out in the first term, are low-literate or have sensory impairment. We welcome the Minister's commitment that, if necessary, these people will be approached individually and will receive support in defining their wish for donorship in the Donor Registry. We welcome his involvement in the development of information parties such as Pharos and the Lezen & Schrijven Foundation, who have experience in health education for people with limited health skills. It seems to my group that people who represent the vulnerable groups themselves and work with them on a daily basis should also be involved. For example, my group is thinking of Elke(in), the National Platform GGz, the Oogvereniging and MEE NL. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. The PvdA Group agrees with the Minister that investment in the Master Plan Organ donation remains necessary and is pleased to continue to give priority to this in the coming years. We support the Minister's view that sufficient time should be taken for implementation and that the introduction will not take place until 1 July 2020. We thank the Minister for his commitment to monitor the implementation and to carry out interim evaluations before and after the introduction of the legislative proposal. We consider it important that these evaluations address the nature, extent and demographic characteristics of the group of people registered as having no objection to age, gender and level of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u12	I hear Mrs Nooren say that people with disabilities, guidance and support can get. But does Mrs Nooren also have confidence in the registration of no objection, while that is probably the motivation to get people with disabilities with guidance to agree to donation by their neighbors?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u13	Thank you for your question. What I mean by my remark is that the highest good is that people record their will in the Donor Registry themselves. I have understood the Minister's commitment in this way, but I would like to hear whether I have understood correctly that the Minister is going to do everything in his power to inform everyone in the Netherlands, to provide information and, if necessary, to guide them in their determination. That can be written, but it can also be done with a DigiMV. Some people don't know what a DigiMV is. And just as it is now customary sometimes to help with filling out forms or to be in care alongside people, I have heard the Minister's response to tailor-made guidance so that he will provide that information, information and guidance will be provided. I would've stayed on the evaluations. It concerns the nature and extent of demographic characteristics for the group of people registered as having no objection. We assume that the Minister will have consequences in the design of his policy and in the provision of information. We would like to hear whether the Minister sees it as such. My group accepts, and I ask just to be sure, that the assessments of the law will also be sent to this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. In last week's debate, it remained unclear whether the initiator is now primarily concerned with ensuring that more people record their will in the Donor Register or to realise that there are more potential donors. I would like clarity on this point, as this will also determine the emphasis placed on implementation and information. That brings me to a few questions that have not been answered in the first period. I'll repeat them. What needs to change in order to speak of a successful implementation of the legislative change is our question to the Minister, but also to the initiator. For example, are there any consequences for developments in the number and nature of new or modified registrations, and if so, which ones? Mr. Chairman. In order to implement the bill properly, additional financial resources are needed. From the Minister's replies in the first period, we understand that this amounts to an amount of EUR 65 million for implementation and a structural additional annual investment of EUR 7 to 8 million. We understand that the costs involved in the introduction of the legislative proposal have not been taken into account in the drafting of the coalition agreement. My group believes that if the necessary EUR 65 million is not available, it is undesirable for this bill to be introduced. The chance that every Dutchman will be informed on a tailor-made basis and the transplant care will be brought into line with the discussion we had today and last week on the bill is virtually nil.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u14	I would like to ask Mr Nooren how she feels that so far organ transplantation campaigns have never been spent more than 3 million a year. Also in terms of subsidiarity and proportionality, it is good to structurally mirror the 65 million plus 7 to 8 million against the 3 million spent so far to achieve voluntary donor registration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u15	We are talking today about a fundamental change in the donor system, ladies and gentlemen. The Council of State is quite clear: if you change a system of explicit consent into a system of supposed consent, there is a heavy responsibility on the part of the government to ensure that everyone is informed on a tailor-made basis. I went into that last time. So if you opt for this bill, it is an inseparable consequence of that that as a government you have to do everything in your power to ensure that everyone is adequately informed. The consequence of adopting the bill is therefore that you need to make funds available for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u16	That's clear to me. I am more concerned that when restricting fundamental rights within the framework of subsidiarity and proportionality, you should first have done everything that proves not to work towards such far-reaching measures. So far, no more than 3 million a year has been spent on voluntary organ donation campaigns. My question to Mr Nooren is therefore: how do you feel that 60 to 65 million is being allocated now and 8 to 9 million systematically, while the other is apparently not well-tested?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u17	We are not talking about the evaluation of the current campaigns. There have been previous evaluations, such as the evaluation of the Master Plan Organ Donation, but also the international comparisons that were discussed last time. If you're going to calculate how many more people will have to register to have the 200 extra donors, then there's a good chance that information campaigns alone are not enough. That is why we are discussing a legislative proposal on this matter today. So even if you spend an extra EUR 20 million on an information campaign now, it is only a question of whether the desired goal is being achieved. We are talking today about a bill that makes a fundamental change to the Donor registration system. If you choose to do so, you can do so on your own. I'll come back to that in a moment if you free up enough resources to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u18	Mr. Koffeman, finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u19	Finally. My question was indeed that you cannot calculate whether there will be enough organ donors if you spend more money on campaigns. I agree. But apparently there is a calculation. It has been said: with the expenditure we have done so far, we cannot do it. You can just as easily calculate whether the new system is going to produce enough donor organs, because we have seen that the assumption in the Lower House has led to the massive saying no of existing donors. So my question to Mr Nooren is again: do you think, knowing that in previous years only 3 million a year has been spent on campaigns, that everything has been tried to encourage voluntary organ donation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u20	I can't judge from here whether everything that's possible has been tried. I think that there is always more information and information that can be done and that should be done every day. There was also a change here last time that people themselves said that they had not been approached in recent years. What's in store now is that you need 10,000 people who have died for one organ donation. So a lot of people need to be included in the donor register to get enough organ donors. What is at issue here is the simple fact that it is a legislative proposal which has the effect of a fundamental change. The assumption of the PvdA Group is that if you opt for such a fundamental change, which is inextricably linked to a huge investment in information, otherwise you will not get what we want, namely that people will only be donors if they want to. Mr. Chairman. I had stayed with the EUR 65 million that should be available. What has not become quite clear to us in the answer given by the Minister is whether the Minister himself will make a proposal in the spring note to ensure that sufficient funds are available for the implementation of the bill if it is adopted here. I'd like to get a response on this point. Does the Minister and the initiator agree with the PvdA Group that it is undesirable to introduce the bill without additional investment and that the introduction should be suspended if no financial resources are available? Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the subject that we spent most of our time and attention on last week: the division of roles between potential donors, doctors and survivors. We are pleased that the initiator has given a more detailed account of this, which is enlightening for my group. We have taken note of the reaction of the medical organisation KNMG of 2 February last to this letter. We are pleased that she, too, indicates that the letter gives her the desired clarity as to the position of the relatives of potential donors. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats believes it is important that the letter from the initiator should include that doctors always want and have to take into account the information, wishes and feelings of relatives. My group considers it important that it is now clear that the doctor will not proceed with the removal of organs if there are serious concerns of relatives, especially those who have not raised their objections. In her letter, the initiator confirms that next of kin have the last word, and my group welcomes that. It adds that there is no right of veto for the next of kin. Can the initiator explain what she means by this in relation to the decisive voice of the next of kin? Mr. Chairman. My group has a number of supplementary questions to the initiator and the Minister in response to the letter and debate in the first term. For my group, it remains unclear what will happen if relatives of a potential donor are divided as to whether the person concerned would like to be a donor. We ask the initiator and the Minister how this is going to be handled in practice and how it is going to be done after the present legislative proposal has been introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u21	Can I ask Mrs Nooren if she thinks that the legal status of the letter is sufficient to satisfy her concerns? We are talking here about an initiativer's view of the position of doctors, as she rightly said. Is the letter even that obvious? It has already been discussed: on the one hand, the final judgment is the doctor, on the other hand, the last word is for the next of kin. Does she really think it is clear and does she think that this is sufficiently legally guaranteed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u22	What has clarified the letter for our group and, apparently, for the KNMG, is that the doctors will engage in dialogue with relatives and that they will take into account everything that is being discussed. For us, it is important that the letter states that no organ donation will be made if the next of kin there is to be divided over his family; I have asked a question about this or if the next of kin does not want it. We are now talking about the legal anchoring. Mrs Martens knows as well as I do that this is not just about the legal text and the explanatory statement. This mutual debate is also part of the interpretation of the law and of the Acts. I will come up with a proposal in a moment to get a firm anchor for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u23	This is indeed part of the legal history, but Mrs Nooren also knows that if there is tension between what is in the law and what is said here and what is in the letter, the law prevails. The law is different on this point. This continues to be about the doctors' vision and the hope of what the doctors are going to do, while it is about protocols that are for the profession itself or even for an individual hospital. We have no guarantee of that. It is very nice that it is now practice in line with what Mrs Nooren wants, but that does not provide a legal guarantee for the future. I will not go into it now because I will return to it in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u24	I don't think there's been a question asked. The bill assumes that people who have not registered themselves can be donors as well as their organs made available for scientific research. The PvdA Group considers it important that these two options are clearly distinguished and assessed separately from each other in the discussions between doctors, transplant experts and next of kin. I would like a reply from the initiator on this point. I would also like to join Mrs Baay's questions on the information to them on the nature of the way it is included in the Donor Register. Mr. Chairman. As was discussed last week in the debate and also included in the letter from the initiator, the question about donorship comes by definition at a very emotional time. My group expressed its fear during the first term that there could be a situation in which people who are well able to express what they think is important and what they think is necessary would be given room to deviate from what is included in the Donor Register, while people with reduced 'thinking and doing power' would not be able to do so. We have not yet received an adequate response from the initiator and the Minister to what guarantees can be taken to prevent this. In the care we know social workers and client confidants who are available to patients and their relatives if they wish to prepare for and assist them in difficult conversations with doctors and other helpers. There's no doubt that a conversation about donorship can qualify as such a difficult conversation. How does the Minister and the initiator view the option of including national standards and protocols to ensure that a client-confidence person, social worker or a qualified nurse is always available for the next of kin to help the next of kin in the talks on donorship? Mr. Chairman. The author's letter briefly refers to the role of the legal representative and, in the absence of that, to the relatives of people who are incompetent. The PvdA Group considers it important that these people should also be dealt with in accordance with their will. We believe that this issue should be explicitly addressed in the doctor's discussion with the legal representative or the legal representative. the next of kin. As far as we are concerned, the protocols, directives and standards state that the doctor must always make additional efforts to ensure that the wishes of those who are incompetent are also followed. This can be done, for example, by relying not only on the information of the relatives and/or legal representatives, but also on the healthcare provider who provides daily care to someone who is incompetent. I would like a response from the initiator and the Minister on this point. In addition, we consider it important to make a clear distinction between consent for the potential donorship and consent for the use of donor organs and tissues for scientific research. My group's question is that the Minister and the initiator subscribe to this. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to our last point: how the initiator deals with how the method of organ donation should be laid down. It states in its letter that there must be overarching protocols or a field standard in order to achieve the desired uniformity. The PvdA Group strongly supports this, but would like to go further. I'd like to explain this. In last week's debate, in the letter from the initiator and by doctors involved in transplant care, it has been repeatedly stated that there is no donation at present in the event of serious complaints from the next of kin. It surprises the PvdA group that nothing has been included in the model protocol postmortem organ and tissue donation of the Dutch Transplantation Foundation of January this year. In addition, this protocol has not been drawn up in conjunction with patient organisations. In the protocol of nearly 140 pages, only 4 pages are devoted to interviews with relatives. The content of these pages is almost exclusively concerned with procedural aspects and information necessary for the assessment of the quality of the donor tissue. The PvdA Group considers it important to take a broader approach to the implementation of the law than a health-related protocol or directive and to focus on the position of the next of kin in the decision-making process on donorship. In its response to this letter, the KNMG states that it must be a national protocol, so that there can be no difference between hospitals and doctors is clear what is expected of them. In her letter of 2 February last year, the initiator stated that the way in which information should be handled should be uniform and that experiences of survivors should be included in Article 23 (3) of the said AMvB. We ask the Minister to refer this general measure of governance to this Chamber. Is he willing to do that? Given the nature of the subject and what my group believes should be laid down, this must be a quality standard which complies with the guidelines set out by the Dutch Health Institute. In this way we hope to ensure that all relevant matters are anchored nationally and uniformly in organ donation. We assume that the Healthcare Institute will assess on request whether this quality standard has been met. If a quality standard for transplant care has not been drawn up by the field parties in time for the adoption of the law in 2020, we expect the Minister to ask the Healthcare Institute to take the initiative to draw up such a quality standard. To achieve this, I am tabling a motion on behalf of my group and also on behalf of the SP, 50PLUS, OSF and GroenLinks groups. The President shall: Mr Nooren, Mr Don, Mr Baay-Timmerman, Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Strik proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Active Donor Registration Bill leads to a fundamental change in donorship and that the core of the bill is that you are a potential donor, unless you have entered yourself in the Donor Register that you do not want to be a donor, or have indicated that you can decide on the donorship for next of kin or a specific other person;]] [[Whereas this affects the distribution of roles between doctors involved in transplantation care and other care providers, survivors(s) and potential donors;]] [[Whereas Article 23 (3) of the Organ Donation Act provides that general administrative measures may lay down detailed rules concerning the Protocol referred to in Article 23 (1);]] [[Whereas, following the introduction of the above-mentioned legislative proposal, it is desirable to act as uniformly as possible in the field of transplant care;]] [[Whereas the guidance on quality standards drawn up on behalf of the Netherlands Health Institute provides guidelines for the establishment of a quality standard, with regard to both the process of drafting and the content of the guidelines, protocols forming part of a quality standard;]] [[Calls on the Government to consult with the field on the establishment of a quality standard for transplant care which meets the criteria set out in the above guidance and which states that the doctor will not make a donation if there are no survivors or survivors who have serious objections to the donation;]] [[Finally, calls on the Government to include the use of this quality standard in the general administrative measure of the Organ Donation Act referred to in Article 23 (3),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33506-Q]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u25	It's quite a long motion, so just a question to make sure I understand the motion correctly. I understand that the PvdA Group is now really introducing a right of veto for the next of kin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u26	I think it says that there is a decisive voice of next of kin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u27	It now says literally: "The doctor does not donate if relatives have serious objections to donation."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u28	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u29	That is the definition of a right of veto.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u30	The initiator mentions both in her letter. I asked her to indicate the difference between the decisive vote and the right of veto.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u31	Good. So let me be clear: with this motion you are actually saying that not the starting point of donor registration is leading, but the desire of the next of kin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u32	The doctor acts according to a certain protocol. Then the first point of departure is: what is in the Donor Register? We've discussed that before. There are four different options. The way I imagine it, a doctor will handle the conversation, but I'd like to know if I understood that correctly. I can feel it myself, but I would like to hear from the initiator whether she agrees with the following difference. In the current situation, Mrs Baay said that beautifully it is an authorisation, yes or no. In the new situation, it is an agreement. That means it's about the nature of the conversation, the content of what's going on, and the weighting of factors. So there is always a conversation and a dialogue. As we read the letter, what next of kin say weighs heavily in the doctor's final judgment, but there is always a dialogue first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u33	That's what the letter says, but that's why I'm going to ask you a few more questions. In your motion, therefore, you say: "Are there any objections? Then no donation."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u34	That's right. If there are serious objections, there is no donation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u35	Exactly. I'll take that as a veto. Clear. I can't wait to hear the director's reaction. Just to be sure: should that starting point also be included in the AMvB? Or is that AMvB merely a reference to the use of the quality standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u36	Article 23 (3) states that the Minister may draw up an AMvB which guides Article 23 (1). Article 23 (1) states that each hospital must draw up a protocol. If we want to anchor what we want here nationally, we find a letter from the initiator too thin. I have said something about the current protocols on this subject, and I think that they are too weak on this point, because they really only deal with the content of care. That is the difference between a directive, a protocol and a standard of care. The quality standard brings that together. So we're actually saying, there's got to be one standard, which isn't just about questions like "in what situation can you take what part of the liver?" And "what exactly is the procedural side?" Although that is interesting to read, it is much more relevant to the impact of today's debate and last week's debate. What matters is how you organize that care and how you shape that dialogue with the next of kin, how you involve them. That then gives direction to daily practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u37	Just a little more concrete, if you don't mind, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u38	Finally, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u39	Should the AMvB also include: if there are family concerns, is there not a donation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u40	No, the AMvB states that there is a quality standard that meets the guidance of the Quality Institute. That's gonna be in the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u41	Following on from this point: in her letter, the initiator says in so many words: there will be no right of veto. Do I understand from your question that it would not be acceptable for the Labour Party to insist that there will be no right of veto and that there will be no last word for next of kin?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u42	No. We say that it is important that family members have the decisive vote. That's clear in the letter. That is very important to my group, of course, along with all kinds of other aspects of the legislative proposal which will soon be weighed by the individual Members. We asked the initiator what she meant by that right of veto, so that it would become clear at the end of this debate. I am therefore waiting for the initiativer's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u43	I understand that, but my question to Mrs Nooren is: it would not be acceptable for you to say that there will be no right of veto, so what does it mean that next of kin do not have the last word?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u44	No. In my view, it would be a good idea to wait for the answers of the initiator, giving us the explanation of what that decisive vote means and how it relates to the term'vetoright'. Then we come to a final judgment on the whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u45	For my party, family members must always have a right of veto, as is the case now. Here's what I'm wondering. Mrs Nooren calls for a right of veto. Suppose the Minister and the initiator decide on something like this. That makes this law an empty cap. Isn't it much better to just vote against this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u46	I didn't say anything about a veto. I said: let us please wait for the initiativer's answer. The law is a fundamental change in the Donor registration system. If you carry it through, then it's about the due diligence requirements. I don't want to qualify that as a "empty cap."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u47	Just for the sake of clarity, I have always understood that a general measure of governance can only be a further elaboration of the law, and never any other effect. This is a substantial change from the law, because it changes the position of the next of kin. That is a very essential part of what we are talking about. Otherwise we would not have been talking about this and we would not have asked for a letter from the initiator. I would like to receive a response from the Minister through Mrs Nooren and through this reply. Does he agree with that? I have another question, namely whether it can be done on this point, because it is an effect of Article 23. I ask Mrs Nooren; I understand that there is some confusion in the Chamber. Can we do that? It is about information and a staff member in hospitals, not about the situation of survivors as such. So is there a sufficient legal basis? Did Mrs. Nooren study that? I would also like to hear from the Minister whether there is a sufficient legal basis for this, because that is a condition for a general measure of governance. Otherwise, I'm gonna ask the Minister for a response later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u48	I'm just trying to find out what question I need to answer now, Mr President, or we need to wait for the Minister's answer first. First of all, I should like to reiterate that the legal treatment, including what we are doing here, should be added. And it is very common at this time, for example, in diabetes and other protocols, that protocols and directives deal not only with the content of the care, but also with the way in which the parties together shape that care. The best example, known throughout the Netherlands, is the quality standard for nursing home care. It is really not just about the medical side of the care, but also about the treatment and other aspects. Article 23 (3) deals with a general measure of governance in which the Minister can guide the protocols and guidelines in hospitals. Logically, I am now saying: we are curious about the reaction of the initiator and the Minister to this proposal. By that, I mean the motion we tabled. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. In reply to the questions put by Mr Koffeman and Mr De Grave in the first period of time about the arguments and feelings that exist within our group about the legislative proposal, I can say on behalf of my group that all the elements that play a role were discussed last week and today in my speech. Not only last week's debate, but also today's debate is important for the members of my group to determine their final position on the legislative proposal. For now, we look forward to the answers of the initiator and the Minister to our questions and their appreciation of the motion we have tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u49	Thank you, Mrs Nooren. I give the floor to Mrs Martens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week I outlined the points that are most crucial for our group in making the final assessments. In particular, it concerns whether or not the infringement of the body's inviolability, as laid down in Article 11 of the Constitution and Article 8 of the ECHR, is acceptable. The points raised at the time are still important considerations, but I will not go into them again now. Today, I will be happy to address the points that remain in the reply in the first period and the points in the letter from the initiator. As has been said, our group supports the purpose of the bill, which is more donations, more conscious choices and more registrations. Even though the Netherlands has the highest registration rate in the world, our group is convinced that there is still much to gain. Our group has different views on the need for the legislative proposal to achieve these objectives. Our group has not been helped by the lack of clarity that the initiator had on a number of points in the debate about the position of the survivors, the inability to act and the legal status of doctors. Our group thanks the initiator for her letter to clarify this. Members have read them with attention. Mr. Chairman. In order to promote more registrations and donations, ADR amends the current law on organ donation. The major difference between ADR and the current law is the legal anchoring of: 1. the position of those who do not register: those who are deemed to have given tacit consent with ADR; 2. the position of non-skills: they cannot become donors in the current law and in ADR; 3. the position of survivors: they must always be consulted in the current law in case of non-registration and have de facto decision-making rights, with ADR no longer; they need only be informed about registration; 4. the position of doctors: where they can derive legal certainty from the law in the current law, ADR gives them an autonomous responsibility for the position of the willless through the statutory obligation and for the survivors in relation to the provision relating to plausibility. On all these points, last Tuesday the debate revealed a lack of clarity. There was no support for the original proposal in the Lower House. For this reason, amendments have been made to the first three points in the House of Representatives. A distinction is now made in the registration between those who have registered as donors and those who have not responded. The latter are now registered as "no objection" but are considered to be treated as a donor. The House of Representatives didn't want Wilson to be an automatic donor if he didn't respond to the letter. Hence the insertion of the obligation to make amends, legally secured in Article 21. By amending the House of Representatives, relatives have now been given the opportunity to object if they do not agree with the registration. Mr. Chairman. With regard to the obligation to be consulted, the Lower House did not want to have the will to fail to respond to the letter as an automatic donor. Hence the insertion of the obligation to make amends. The members were surprised to hear that the initiator said that it was only an "effort obligation, which has its limits and should not be considered so heavy"; these were her literal words. I would like to receive a further explanation from the initiator of how this obligation should be seen, because what happens if a doctor is not clear whether a possible donor was willing at the time of registration and when the legal representative and survivors are absent? What happens then? The bill does not make it clear what a doctor is supposed to do in that case. I would also like a response from the Minister on this point: how does the law describe this? With regard to the legal status of the survivors and the doctors, there was confusion in the debate as to what the law provides for the position of the survivors. Is it okay for a next of kin to overrule the registration? If so, can it do so in the case of both a yes and a no registration and also in the case of registration 'no objection'? Mr. Chairman. Under the current law, an unregistered person is not a donor unless the next of kin consent. They have de facto decision-making rights. In the ADR, this role of next of kin in non-registration is explicitly written out of the bill. Survivors don't need to be asked for permission anymore. They only need to be informed about the registration. If people do not respond to the call to register, they are registered as "not objecting," which is equivalent to donor. As a commitment to the House of Representatives it has been introduced that the next of kin may still object to the registration on their own initiative, but then they should be able to make it plausible to the doctor that the patient did not want to be a donor. The law does not set any criteria for this; we have already discussed this. It is up to the individual physician to assess whether a next of kin can make it sufficiently plausible that the registration is not in line with the patient's wishes. The debate sought criteria and clarity. How can next of kin make that plausible? Does only the patient's objection count or also the objection of the next of kin itself? The letter from the initiator is intended to reply and also to clarify the legal position of the doctor. Members read a difference in what the law provides and what the initiator is in favour of in her letter. Where the legislative proposal expressly does not lay down a role for the next of kin, unless registration is demonstrably incorrect, members read in the author's letter that she actually wants to give the last word to the next of kin, but not a formal veto. I'd like to explain the exact difference between those two. Initiator wants to arrange this through the doctors. It is not clear to Members exactly what the initiator is thinking of. On the one hand, it states that doctors are supposed to act on the basis of the registration and, at the same time, they are deemed to be leading the view of the next of kin. Doctors are also considered to make their own assessment according to their professional autonomy, but in whose interest? In the interests of the next of kin or in the interests of the patient waiting for an organ? Members read it in such a way that the decision-making power to remove organs is always with the doctor. I'd like an initiativer's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u51	I wonder what Mrs Martens is looking for. You're looking for absolute clarity. You are looking for sturdy anchors in a law that will determine the behavior of the doctor and the next of kin. I think you are losing sight of the way things are going in practice. Last Sunday we saw Mr Abdo on TV in Buitenhof and also at the expert meeting. He always points out that it is about dialogue, the conversation. The law gives the room to conduct that conversation very well. The law even leans a little bit on that conversation. In that conversation it is therefore a question of donation at a difficult time for the family, so the family gets the space to form an opinion on it. That opinion is even decisive. You are looking for absolute certainty that this will happen in all circumstances. I think you can forget about donation in practice if you want to anchor that in the law. It's about the conversation and the dialogue between those two.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u52	What is your question to Mrs Martens?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u53	What are you looking for?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u54	I'm looking for clarity about the law. What does the initiator want to regulate in the law? I shall come back to this later: what does the initiator intend to do about the responsibility and powers of doctors in the law and what does the initiator intend to do about the next of kin? It is obvious that a conversation is possible. It is not that the conversation is mandatory in the atmosphere of: check with the next of kin. The law provides that the next of kin must be informed about the registration. Fortunately, we have doctors who are always in consultation, although the doctors also differ on the extent to which the views of the survivors should be taken into account. For example, Mr Abdo says: always. That is what he said in Buitenhof and here in the expert meeting. There was also Professor Rutger Ploeg, who writes in an article: no, the will of the next of kin must always be respected. Among the doctors themselves, including those who are in favour of this bill, there is therefore a difference of opinion on how to deal with next of kin. Can you do something so crucial, which we also see here in our Chamber as very crucially how to deal with next of kin? Let the doctor's individual assessment depend, yes or no? If that goes through protocols, how do we guarantee that they will remain as they are today, as a default? But now I'm ahead of the text.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u55	This is my last question to Mrs Martens. Last time you heard me say in my speech that we should not be talking about the field standard, but that we should go to some sort of implementation practice that is right. You have heard Mrs Nooren talk about this in detail and you have also heard Mrs Nooren's motion; you have even responded to it. I think it says exactly what you're looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u56	My problem is that we're not dealing with that field standard. If we really want to do this, then we must regulate this in the law and not in the field standard. That is what I ask the initiator to do when I move on to my speech. Mr. Chairman. First of all, Members would like to hear what the initiator wants to regulate the legal status of doctors and survivors and then how she intends to regulate this. The KNMG asks for the role of next of kin to be politically regulated and not left to the profession, the interpretation of the individual doctor or the board of each individual hospital. The letter from the initiator seems to reflect above all on professional practice. Of course, the field standard and the protocols are also about that. The letter is a description of current practice, with the expectation that it will remain so in the future. Members read in the letter many words like "I think it's important," "it's so now, so doctors will always," "the doctor will choose it," "the doctor will take into account," "the doctor may deviate from," "the practice will come down to," "assuming that," "will have to be considered how," "stretched to recommendation" and "I can imagine that." The members of our group support these wishes and hopes, but they do see a great difference between the description of the practice as it is today, on the basis of the current protocols and guidelines in the professions, and the legal guarantee sought by the Chamber. It is unclear to the members how the letter gives the legal guarantee that the next of kin will have the last word now that the initiator repeatedly states that it is always a matter of the doctor's own professional consideration. It can also be inferred from the use of words such as "leading" and "in fact" that the intended standard is not legally binding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u57	I believe that there has been a clear answer to the question put by the SP colleague, namely: what do you want? Yes, you want clarity, but you give the answer yourself: you want it to be regulated by law. That's complicated, because it's not in the law right now. I'd like to ask you something. If we reject this initiative law, we will uphold the current law. Perhaps you could explain to me which of the clear standards you are describing are in the current law. There's no right of veto for next of kin in the current law. In other words, we reject a law and we uphold the current law, and it formulates the practice as described. There's no right of veto for next of kin. Do I understand that, now that you are rejecting this law because you find this point unclear, you are at the same time advocating that the current law on organ donation be amended?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u58	The current law on organ donation is very clear about the position of next of kin in case of non-registration. That is an important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u59	I do not agree with that, but I will come back to that in my own term. It is even the case, on the basis of the current law, that in practice, even in the case of a yes registration, no organ take-out takes place if survivors raise concerns. It's not regulated by the law. If you think that there should be so much clarity about what needs to be done, and that this cannot be left to doctors, but that the legislator should regulate it, then you should also say that the current law needs to be amended. That would be consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u60	We are not discussing the current law. We are discussing what this new law will regulate. And this new law doesn't actually regulate a position for the next of kin in non-registereds. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u61	It is true that we as the First Chamber have a choice. We are voting for or against the initiative law and the consequence of the latter is that the current law will then continue to exist. This also means that we will then legitimize the current practice. I would remind you that this current law is largely based on the practice of implementation, on the way in which doctors deal with it in the conversation. Until now, this has never been a piece of criticism. I am trying to put your serious criticism of the initiative law, namely that there are no legal standards, in other words, to some extent to the extent of the practice of the current law. Because if you vote against the initiative law, you will vote in favour of the current practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u62	Mr De Grave just said that it remains the same, so we do not have to vote on it. That is the position with regard to the overrule of the next of kin in a yes registration. But I also ask the initiator to do so. What the hell is she trying to do? That is not clear in her letter either. But we do not have to vote on it, because it remains the same, you say, because that is the practice. I'm trying to figure out what's in the law and to separate the practice from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u63	The initiative law we are talking about is based on the current law. There's a minimal change, only from the recording system. You say we're not voting on the current law. No, we're not voting on that. We're voting on the Initiative Act. But if you do nothing with the initiative law, because you are against it, the current law will remain, with all the flaws you have just referred to. So yes, I am following Mr De Grave in this: then we are back to square one. Then the themes you have named and the certainty you are looking for remain uncertain in the current situation. The new law improves that. Good. Mrs Martens, I come to my question. Can you at all agree with what is going on here? Because you're looking for a certain security and you won't find it. In your opinion, that certainty is not in the current practice. Can you at all agree with this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u64	Last week we debated a number of aspects of the bill and today we are also debating a number of parts of the bill and the implications of the bill. On the basis of all this, our group will consider the matter. And as you know, our group is divided on this issue. For now. And I'm sure you will.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u65	Mrs Martens is, of course, right: we are not voting on the current law; we must live with it. I agree. However, I would like to know from Mrs Martens whether she is also having trouble with the current system, in which the relatives of those who have given explicit consent do not have the assurance that, in the event of insurmountable objections, donations will not be made. Because that's not laid down in rules right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u66	I do not think it is right to discuss points that are not raised here. For we are not talking about the current law; we see the current practice. Personally, I can imagine doctors taking the next of kin into account, but I think it is a very complicated thing. Because if someone has explicitly said "I want to be a donor" and the next of kin want to overrule it, then the doctor is facing a dilemma. And it stays that way, in one case and in the other. Only the current law determines the position of next of kin, other than the law on organ donation. And we talk about the change; we don't talk about what stays the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u67	I note that Mrs Martens therefore also finds the current situation unsatisfactory, because she feels that it poses a major dilemma for doctors for which the regulation does not provide a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u68	I didn't say that. I said it was a dilemma for a doctor, but I did not say that the current law in that sense is otherwise a problem or not. This puts doctors in a dilemma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u69	Finally, Mrs Strik. Isn't it? You were ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u70	Yeah, I was done. I have nothing to add to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u71	Mr President, I would like to move on. Members would like to hear again briefly what the initiator wants to regulate and ensure legal certainty. Will doctors always be free to register "donor" or "no objection" when taking out organs or must they always respect the family's objection? If so, can this concern both the objection of the next of kin or can that relate only to the patient's will? And what if the visions of the next of kin differ? What is secured in the current bill and what is not? Members would also like to hear from the initiator how she intends to define this. Initiator does not want this to be laid down in the law itself. Do the members of the CDA Group understand that they are confident that the protocols of the professions or hospitals will regulate this as they see fit? How can these protocols provide the legal guarantee requested by the Chamber, given that the Supreme Court is not about these protocols? This was also mentioned in the debate by our President. Moreover, the profession can change those protocols without parliament. Today's practice is no guarantee that it will continue to be so in the future. Especially now that donation with ADR gets another default and donation is legally allowed to anyone who has not responded to the letters. I'd like a response from the initiator and the minister. Can the initiator explain again why she wrote the position of the next of kin in the law and wants to meet the Chamber, but nevertheless she continues to waive legal safeguards for the position of survivors in the ADR system, even in the case of non-responders? If a legal guarantee were no longer appropriate in the context of care and legal certainty, the members would ask the initiator and minister. We have the following question to the Minister. The role of the next of kin is essentially described differently in the bill and in the letter. If the views of the letter already count in the legal history, then isn't it true that in case of contradiction, the legal text goes above the explanation in the letter? As the Minister said in the first term, Article 23 explicitly refers to the effects that individual hospital authorities are expected to shape, which has not been given to the Ministry by ADR. Mr President, a few final points. First of all, on accompanying policy. Initiator has indicated that the introduction of ADR can only be effective if it is accompanied by policies and accompanying measures. She sees this as a necessary condition. Our group will be pleased to hear what it sees in this regard and how it looks at the Minister's commitment that, regardless of whether the bill is adopted or not, it will become active to facilitate municipalities in the information and activation of the choice of registration in question. He even wants to give municipalities a legal role in that. During the first term, the Minister also mentioned a number of other initiatives on which he wanted to work, as did the members of the CDA Group. Is our conclusion correct that the Minister sees possibilities within the current law for additional activities? Does he expect positive results from this? Members took good note of the Minister's remark that Article 22 of the Constitution does not give the right to good health and therefore no right to organs. Mr. Chairman. Is ADR the same as opt-out systems in other European countries? Initiator states that ADR is similar to the opt-out system of other countries. Here's what I'm gonna do. ADR differs in fundamental respects from the opt-out system in other countries. Other countries only register those who do not want to be donors. If someone has not explicitly signed up as a donor, in other countries, the next of kin must always be consulted. In most countries, in the event of a survivor's objection or a survivor's claim that the patient had an objection, the law states that doctors should not proceed to the withdrawal of organs. In no other country does the government register a supposed desire of a person. In no country is non-registration equal to consent to donorship. In no other country do survivors have such a marginal role by law. These are crucial differences between legislation in other opt-out countries and ADR. This also affects confidence in health care and politics. In Brazil and Chile it appeared that people are beginning to wonder who the doctor would give priority to: to the dying patient or to the patient waiting for an organ? Doesn't that risk increase if the default changes now? How will it go with the confidence in the government if it will also register consent without a person having expressed that opinion? Professor of Medical Information Systems Schonk points out the importance of the fact that medical information is based on facts and not on assumptions made by instances that do not know the person. It writes that the citizen might consider the registration "no objection" as administrative fraud by the government because it does not register an expression of the person himself but merely an assumed opinion. The government shall equate that with a stated consent for full donorship, including the provision of scientific research bodies. While the registration "no objection' de facto merely reflects the finding that someone has not responded for any reason. Schonk argues: if the bill is passed, the First Chamber will sanction a law that empowers the government to close statements that the person has not made, to record them, and then order doctors to see this as consent and act accordingly. The burden of proof is then on the next of kin if the registration is incorrect. In the first period, I had a question to which the initiator has not yet responded. I'd like another response. Mr. Chairman. As I said, it is a free vote for our group. Each stands for the consideration of whether he/she considers it legitimate to limit two rights, which are constitutionally anchored for every Dutch citizen, for the sake of obtaining more registrations and donors. In addition to the needs of patients and their environment, the need, proportionality, subsidiarity and feasibility will play an important role in the assessment, as well as the risks associated with public and health confidence. Some of the group is sympathetic to the legislative proposal and some of them have fundamental legal objections or concerns about proportionality and subsidiarity. We look forward with interest to the reaction of the initiator and the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u72	Thank you, Mrs Martens. I give the floor to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u73	Thank you, Mr President. My group would like to thank the applicant and the Minister for answering our questions in the first time last week. I would also like to thank the applicant for the letter she sent us last Friday. It has not changed our position in this debate. It is still doubtful for us, even after reading that letter, whether we are on the right track with ADR, including in order to achieve greater donor willingness. Mr. Chairman. Last week I explained that our core problem with this law is that people who have not explicitly authorised the removal of their organs are still registered as donors. However, we do not know the motives of those who do not respond to letters. We cannot assume that they have made an informed decision. Therefore, we cannot include them in the no-objection register. Donation of one's organs must be based on a conscious personal decision. The artist writes that the starting point of the law is "that one's own wish is followed." But in the case of "no objection" there is nothing to say with certainty about that own wish. That's an assumption. We shouldn't want that in decisions about our own body. Mr. Chairman. Last week's debate focused on the role of the next of kin. That was asked for clarity. This has been the subject of a letter, but as far as we are concerned we do not need clarity. The next of kin have the last word, so it is said, but no veto. Several colleagues have already asked about the significance of this difference; so do we. The doctors will weigh as professionals what they have to do in the given situation, but they will have the no objection registration to interpret as a "yes." At the same time, the information of the next of kin must be followed, writes the applicant. That leaves a lot of questions open and can give rise to a lot of confusion. Mr. Chairman. I indicated last week that we could also move forward within the current system if we were able to reduce the number of family refusals. That's the 66%. This results in direct profits in the number of actual donors. The ADR system focuses on increasing the number of registrations, which is not the same as the number of donations. In her letter, the applicant stressed the role of next of kin and the ability they had to refuse. Isn't it much better to work on raising awareness in families to make donations? What exactly is the profit compared to the current situation, in which non-registered people can always be considered donors and consultation with the family takes place? Again, if we manage to reduce the number of family refusals within the current system, we will also do something very important. I'd like a response from the petitioner to that. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the price of undermining Article 11 of the Constitution. The inviolability of the body is an inalienable right. This makes the status of that right different from that of Article 22, which is often referred to. This law infringes that inalienable right of the inviolability of the body. The protection provided to citizens by Article 11 will automatically end if the citizen himself does not make a choice, if he does nothing. However, the citizen should remain free from this infringement without having to do anything about it himself. This means that it can only be assumed that the infringement will be accepted on the basis of informed consent. And that is precisely what is lacking in the non-objection system. It is said, also by the applicant in her letter, that the law justifies this infringement by what the law prescribes, for example on the basis of Article 22, referring to the general health interest. The infringement, thus ignoring informed consent, must then be justified on the basis of the effectiveness, proportionality and subsidiarity of the law. But all that is not beyond doubt. This was also demonstrated by last week's debate. There's another alternative. There are other means to use. In any case, a major information campaign must be launched. Whether this law is effective cannot be said with certainty. In order to make the body inviolable for that uncertain purpose, our group goes too far. Mr. Chairman. Our group will vote against this law, but we do appreciate receiving answers to our questions from the applicant and the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u74	Thank you, Mr. Kuiper. I give the floor to Mr Don.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After a thorough debate last week, Mrs Dijkstra promised our Chamber a letter on the position of the family in the post-mortal donation question. Today we are discussing this letter in our second term. We thank Mrs Dijkstra for this letter. Mr. Chairman. I would like to briefly mention the reason why we are again debating the Active Donor Registration System today. About 150 people died in 2017 because there was no donor body available to them. Due to the current donor registration system, there is a shortage of donors. This problem has been going on for years. The SP has long been looking for improvements to existing systems. Our 2002 and 2005 motions make this clear. We are pleased that the proposal for an initiative has been further clarified by the input of the other parties and ours. This proposal for an initiative can count on our support. Before discussing Mrs Dijkstra's letter, I would first like to ask the Minister a question in connection with last week's debate. You then replied to a question by Mr Van Dijk concerning a statement by former Minister Borst. I quote: "The 2014 evaluation of the master plan shows that this coherent approach has led to an increase in the number of organ transplants. The number of organ transplants increased by 11% during that period. This result has been achieved without the introduction of the ADR." Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister if this increase was also in 2015 and 2016. Last week, during my speech, I asked a question about the position of the family and the concept of "making decent" as described in the draft law. In the letter from the initiator our question is answered. This letter is in our view an exciting balancing act in which the tension in the position of the family is reflected in a donation question from a loved one. Mrs Dijkstra makes this tension visible in the third paragraph of page 3 of her letter. This paragraph is expressed in its own words: making the deceased's wish plausible by the family is not the same as asking permission from the family in the current situation if the person concerned has not registered. The position of the family is therefore not legally enshrined in the proposal for an initiative. On the other hand, as described in the letter, the family does have a decisive voice in the donation interview with the doctor. In such a conversation, the family may make a different choice of deceased person plausible or object to the explicit or implicit choice in the Donor Registry of deceased loved one. It remains difficult to properly describe this position of the family; the voice of the family is decisive, but we do not record it in the law. The professional standard of the doctor prescribes that, in the event of an objection or the possibility of family belonging to a deceased person other than the registered donor's wish, the family's choice should be put first. Lifting this professional standard in the form of a national field standard or an overarching protocol gives the next of kin some legal certainty. This is reinforced by the commitment of the initiator and the minister to us to take the experiences of survivors in addition to medical standards as the basis for the field standard to be developed. I'd like to ask the Minister the following questions. Does the Minister have any idea or specific form in his mind as to what place the next of kin will be in the development of the field standard? "Veldnorm" is of course just a working title for a protocol or something else. So too: how can next of kin who will be faced with a donation question know about this field standard? The future legislative review naturally plays a role in the future development of the field standard. At the start of the new law, the field standard will have to be ready. Who or which institute takes care of the field standard to be developed? Is that the Dutch Transplantation Foundation or could the Zorginstituut Nederland also play a role in this? Mr President, my final point of attention. In her letter, Mrs Dijkstra writes that a doctor will never start a procedure until the next of kin has been spoken to. This principle could be included in a protocol. Mrs Dijkstra, why the word "would" in this sentence? Why don't we just include this starting point in a protocol? That makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u76	Mr Don confirms that by saying that we want a right of veto for the next of kin, we will not donate at all. That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u77	I beg your pardon? Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u78	I just heard that in one of your interruptions. Is the choice of potential donors or the negative position of the family imposed by the State more important for the SP than that the State can obtain more donations or organs? Is that more important to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u79	You're asking for two...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u80	I'll repeat it again. You have just in one of your interruptions perhaps the one who has been interrupted can confirm that; Mrs Martens said: yes, if we are going to lay down all this, the right of veto, in the law, then we will not get any donations at all. You always argue for donations, for more donating people. Is it important for you to have more donors, or do you think it is more important for the State to decide? Do you think it is more important that the State determines that for people, while the free choice of family and potential donors should be the most important? That's what I want to ask of you. So is the State, which imposes this, more important to you or the individual who makes his own choice or doesn't make his own choice, which is also a choice? I can't say it any clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u81	I'm trying to put it in my head right. I'm just gonna peel it off, Mr. Van Kesteren. I didn't use the word "vetorecht." In relation to Mrs Martens, I did just mention that it is undesirable to lay it down in the law, because the law will never be able to provide sufficient room for manoeuvre if you lay it down at a level of detail. Then you can't give the execution practice the space he needs. Next, I said: in this implementation practice, let me mention some new words that I did not just mention, "There is already a kind of self-ordering and self-directing process going on. Doctors have developed protocols for themselves about how they deal with the family around the donation question. In doing so, they already give the family room in today's practice to determine a position in it. That has been my proposal of the field standard all along: pull it up a little bit and make it visible, also to the next of kin, what the current practice looks like and how the next of kin is handled. Also ensure a geographical spread across the country, so that it happens in the same way everywhere. I agree with Mrs Nooren on this point. You are now asking whether I consider the state's space to be more important to the potential donor than to obtain a number of donors. You'll have to correct me if I don't say it right. I'm looking at the current law, the law that's already there. Right now, we already have a control system. You are invited to make choices. If you do not make a choice, the donation question will automatically end up with the family. There's already a state control in there. This direction continues with the initiative legislative proposal. This indicates that the family is no longer given the choice, but that you are an automatic donor, with the understanding that there is an implementation practice that we need to objectify or make more visible. In it, the next of kin currently, but also in the future, have an opportunity to take a different position from that in the register. The vote of the next of kin will then be decisive.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u82	I would like to ask whether Mr Don also thinks that the new legislation will increase the influence of the State on people's personal choices and that it will be even more protected in the old legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u83	Well, I don't want to say it's getting bigger or more protected. There is an influence of the State on the way in which the choice system has now been developed and is in the proposal. There is also control in the selection system. There was a nice article in Trouw today. You can see that the discussion we are having here and which has been held in the House of Representatives has led the people to register more and that there have also been more no registrations. So talking about it stimulates our citizens or residents to make a choice. That's fantastic. You can make that choice. The government does not decide which choice to make, but only asks to make a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u84	Van Kesteren, finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u85	Then I will stick to my question to Mr Don as to whether it is better to do so in a public and public debate than to give the State more powers to enforce it with the average citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u86	I'm gonna have to give the same answer and then I'm gonna repeat myself. There's no point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u87	Of course we agree that the fact that we are talking about organ donation is a good thing. Of course, it is also extremely important that this has attracted a great deal of attention in society. I would like to touch on Mr Don's remark that the law cannot afford any room for manoeuvre. That's exactly the difference, isn't it? The current law allows survivors to consent in case of non-registration, but that is exactly what the law regulates. Does Mr Don agree with me that it is not the case that a law cannot regulate that position? That's a bit of a complicated sentence, Mr. Chairman. That is exactly what we want to change now, and then we want to bring it back in through the back door, namely through the field standards and the protocols, if that's possible, if that's up to us. Mr Don wants to take care of it anyway. I see a bit of a gap between wanting it out on the one hand and wanting it back in on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u88	I am repeating myself as a result of Mrs Martens's interruption, but I will try again to make it clear. At the time when you are going to set up an implementation practice in a law, you are hindering that implementation practice. If you leave that implementation practice to the professionals and the ones that it concerns, in this case the next of kin, you give the next of kin and the professionals a position in it, linked to a particular purpose, and that goal is forgotten, because I don't hear that in the discussions. We're standing here debating with each other and seeing if we can get more donors. That is, of course, also the commitment of this law. I do not want to lose sight of this objective, because, once again, that is the legitimacy of our efforts and of the debate today. That implementation practice needs its space, as does the dialogue or the conversation, but I've lost Mrs Martens' attention, so I'm quitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u89	Proceed, Mr. Don.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u90	I said what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u91	Mrs. Martens, Mr. Don was in the process of answering your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u92	And I've stopped, Mrs. Martens, and I'm not going to repeat it, because I'm falling into repetition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u93	Proceed, Mr. Don.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u94	Locking up. This debate in the First Chamber has not gone unnoticed. Social supporters and opponents of the advent of an Active Donor Registration System have moved. In this Chamber, too, we have so far had a thorough discussion and discussion of the substance. As a fraction of the SP, we welcome the advent of a field standard, as proposed in the letter. Similarly, with the decisive voice of the family in postmortem donation. But also with the commitment of Mrs Dijkstra and the Minister to ask the health insurance companies to periodically bring their insured persons to the attention of the donor registration system. We look forward to the answer to our final questions by Mrs Dijkstra and the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u95	Thank you, Mr. Don. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u96	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Dijkstra for her letter which we received on Friday, which clarifies a number of points and also makes some reservations less important. As regards the role of survivors in the final decision whether or not to make an organ donation, the letter expressly states that, in all cases, serious concerns of survivors are taken so seriously by the doctor, as well as under the legislative proposal, that the procedure will normally be abandoned. Guaranteeing this possibility of participation is not a right of veto, but a significant right of participation is important in itself, and it also makes it easier to accept the possibility that the patient, despite his registration, did not want to be a donor. If the next of kin denies the patient's explicit or implicit consent and also uses it to formulate serious objections, there is still a doctor's obligation to assess, but the doctor seems to be able and will soon be able to meet the wishes of the next of kin. The applicant's finding that if no survivors can be traced, there should also be no donation, is important, but does not give any guarantees. It sounds more like a wish than a fact. As far as I am concerned, that could have been included in the legislative proposal. It should in any case be explicitly part of the legal history when the proposal is adopted. It generally forms a safety valve and it can also be important to unsharp the problem of the formally or factually incompetent. If, in any case, survivors always have to be informed and consulted, the duty of the doctor to satisfy themselves of the will of a positive registered patient will be less severe than if it were to be judged without survivors. In the consultation that VWS will conduct when the law is passed on the protocols, but also on a clear quality standard, see the motion, this must be an important point: without next of kin no donation. Maybe the Minister can make a commitment about that. However, a question here: who in all these cases is actually considered to be next of kin? Or can the doctor give his own broader or more limited interpretation of this? And another question: can a parent who doesn't want to be a donor report his or her underage children with a no-registration? Or is such a parent, or possibly another next of kin, if something happens to the child, called upon to decide on this as a next of kin? Then the other side, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that in her letter the applicant has renounced previous statements that those who are registered as 'no objections' have implicitly agreed or agree with it, or that every Dutch person will soon have a choice, also a quote from the applicant. Surely such conclusions extend beyond what is actually known of the registered persons? I am glad that the applicant admits that in her letter as well. The fact that the WGBO and the arrangement of the informed consent do not apply to deaths and also do not apply because there is a third party involved in organ donation alongside the doctor and the patient, the party that needs the donor organ, does not convince me either. Having established this, therefore, the fundamental consideration remains: is the importance of the legislative proposal sufficient to replace the explicit consent required in principle for such a major medical procedure as the removal of organs with a supposed tacit consent? That remains for me the central question that we have to ask ourselves in connection with Article 11 of the Constitution. This balance remains difficult, as was the case last week, but I agree with the applicant that the importance of all those who have to wait long, and sometimes too long, for a donor body is really great. And I also think that the position of the next of kin, which is now clear, but not yet fully guaranteed, seems to me to reduce the risk of the supposed consent and, by the way, brings the relations under the proposal much closer to those under the existing law. The difference is that availability for donation would now be the first option. Please note that if we are to assume that there will be no donation without next of kin and if we are to assume that doctors are prepared to refrain from the procedure in the event of serious problems of next of kin. Can we? Then all that remains is the problem of controversial brain death. How do we get guarantees that the information will clarify what is brain death and what consequences this will have when it is taken out? And how do we ensure that this complete information also reaches everyone who is included in the registrations? Because that seems to me to be a requirement to play this game fairly. Can the Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u97	Thank you very much, Mr Ten Hoeve. I call Mrs Bredenoord.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u98	Mr. Chairman. Last week, in this Chamber, we discussed in detail the proposal for an own-initiative act, which proposes to amend the registration system for organ donation. I would like to thank Mrs Dijkstra and the Minister and their support for the comprehensive answer to our questions, including a letter addressed to this Chamber. I would also like to congratulate my fellow senators on the thorough examination of this bill. I believe that the deliberations have contributed greatly to the clarity of the proposal before us. The members of the D66 Group have already indicated in the previous deadline that, as far as they are concerned, the proposed Active Donor Registration System represents a significant improvement on the shortcomings of the current decision-making system for organ donation. In view of the intense debate in this House, but also in public fora and in the media, and given the many personal e-mails addressed to senators, I would like to explain this position once again. The core of the bill is that it encourages people to determine what they want to happen to their bodies after they die. It is inclusive, and by that I mean that it seeks to invite all people to have a conversation with their neighbors, and to make a choice. We now know from the behavioral sciences that people often follow the standard determination. The standard provision for organ donation is now that if you don't do anything, you're not a donor, unless your family decides otherwise after death. This current standard in no way encourages people to think about organ donation and talk about it with their immediate surroundings. By turning this standard clause around, an ADR system meets the large group of people who want to be donors, but for some reason have not yet arrived to register. In fact, the ADR system is more in line with people's preferences and encourages self-determination. Above all, the perspective offers the unfortunately still many people on the waiting list for an organ. Since you are not sure of all people that a no-objection registration has actually been a deliberate consideration, the examples have been mentioned last week, the members of my group can agree with the role that the initiator assigns to the next of kin in making it plausible that the registration was not in line with their loved one. The bill states that the Minister will provide adequate information prior to the entry into force of the law. In Wales, prior to the entry into force of the law, the campaign was an eighteen-month campaign with an emphasis on low-skilled workers. Regular samples were also provided by an independent and recognised institute, which showed that 80% of the population were well aware of the legislative change prior to the entry into force of the law. This could be a way to assess whether different population groups are sufficiently aware of the proposed ADR. If not, the information campaigns could still be updated so that as many people as possible can make a conscious choice. I'd like a response from the Minister. The members of my group underline the suggestion made by Mrs Dijkstra in her letter to include experiences of next of kin in the development of a protocol or field standard on the role of survivors, and in the initial evaluation of the law. This is in line with the increasing focus on patient participation. We would like to ask the initiator and the Minister to respond to the KNMG's suggestion that a national protocol should be introduced to fill in the dispute by means of a national protocol, so that there can be no differences between hospitals and so that doctors know what is expected of them. It is up to the individual members of the D66 Group to make their own assessment of the legislative proposal before us. Members of my group consider the proposed ADR to be consistent with the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. I will support the bill, and also the other members of the D66 Group have indicated that they will support the bill. I look forward to the answers from the Minister and Mrs Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u99	Thank you, Mrs Bredenoord. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u100	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank you for your reply and for the letter we received on Friday. In that letter, the initiator confirmed that the practice with regard to survivors does not change in principle. In other words, even if the donor has agreed to the donation, the insurmountable concerns of the next of kin can still stop organ withdrawal. That is from the thought that they must live on with this process, and that the organ donation of one should not harm the mourning of the other. The difference with the current system is that the objections not only play a role for those who have explicitly agreed, but also for those who have not responded and are therefore registered as "no objection'. The next of kin will no longer have to grant permission to do so. They may suggest that the registration is not in accordance with the donor's wishes. We believe it is important that this is not subject to a heavy burden of proof. And that is also confirmed by the initiator in her letter. However, it is also very important that, despite the donor's explicit or non-explicit consent, the decision weighs very heavily on the part of the next of kin. Of course, the right to self-determination requires that we assume the will of the donor, but at the same time organ withdrawal must not hinder the process of mourning. If it adds additional suffering to the next of kin, should the donor's will be followed as a guide? My group therefore thinks it is good and important that the doctor takes the concerns of the survivors very seriously and does not make donations in the event of insurmountable objections. At the same time, there must be room for the individual context and consideration. What if a next of kin hasn't been in touch with the donor for a long time, while he's in turn very attached to the consent? It is therefore up to the doctor's professionalism to make the objections weigh heavily in the final decision. This requires mainly procedural guarantees, which must be leading and mandatory for the physician. We are therefore in agreement with the author's letter on the description of the way things are going in practice, but we have reservations about the lack of anchoring of these procedural guarantees. It is said that the field is being consulted, but that is why we support Mrs Nooren's motion to establish the working method and respect for those professional standards through the hook of Article 23 (2) of the Organ Donation Act. We would very much like a response from the initiator to this motion. For my group, a pressing test of Article 11 of the Constitution remains of great importance. That is the test of subsidiarity and proportionality. In this context, we attach importance to the results of the study that the current system does not produce the required number of post-mortem transplants. This makes people even much sicker and people die prematurely. Last week, the Minister replied that the Master Plan Organ donation, which should have produced 25% more post-mortem transplants, only produced 11% more. Nevertheless, the Minister indicated that he would continue with the current measures. How does the Minister intend to achieve that 25% extra? Is he prepared to say that all the extra information efforts promised by this bill will be made, even if this bill is not adopted? The response by the initiator and the Minister has not changed the position of my group members. The majority vote in favour of the bill, assuming that everything is done to ensure that everyone makes a conscious choice about the donation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr De Grave.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u102	Madam President, thank you very much. I would, of course, like to thank the initiator and the Minister for the answers. I would particularly like to thank the initiator for her letter last Friday. Before I give an appreciation from my group on this letter, it might be good to return to my group's contribution in the first term on the position of the next of kin in this proposal. I quote: Madam President, before I go into the thoughts that my group currently has on this proposal, I would first like to outline the framework within which the Members of my group wish to make their assessment. A few paragraphs later: But unlike what many people think, not registering on the basis of the current law does not mean that you cannot become a donor... According to the current law on organ donation, the next of kin decide in case of non-registration. Also in the case of a yes registration, survivors may object and in practice no organ withdrawal takes place. Moreover, I am still quoting some members of my group who think it is actually wrong that a will decision can be changed by the next of kin. They're having trouble with that. Other Members of my group understand that practical and emotional objections could exist if this were to be changed. However, that was my conclusion: the initiator did not propose a change on this point... It will therefore continue to be important for those who have registered with a "yes" to discuss this with the next of kin. Further on: Parliamentary documents show that the Dijkstra initiative proposal also asks the next of kin for an opinion on the proposed removal... In practice, this means that no organ withdrawal takes place if the survivors object. And beyond: This will not change as a result of the present bill. Article 20 (5) lays down that, where survivors have information to make it likely that a person does not want to be a donor, despite a yes registration or a registration of "no registration', they can be better formulated as registration "no objection', they can consult the doctor. Actually, a light form of burden of proof is still my quote "fine" and has no formal requirements. In practice, the doctor will follow the judgment of the next of kin. That was the framework of the VVD Group. We find that confirmed in the letter. This means that nothing changes for us. We had this judgment on this point in the law. I have also asked Mrs Dijkstra a few times in the case of interruption. It is good that it is now on paper and that this can also help to clarify things for others. It is a good thing that the KNMG now also notes that in practice this is now feasible for doctors. But it doesn't change my group's assessment framework. I have a few more minutes to make a few comments. Maybe I can say something about the concept of "vetorecht." Well, that's an interesting concept, isn't it? Why do we, the VVD Group, think that Mrs Dijkstra is right, namely that this system should not be based on a right of veto? Two concepts. One: the word "right." The word "right" belongs to the person who has his own organs. It is the right of self-determination that is central to my group, not the right of the next of kin. The central right is that of the person concerned, the person concerned. Veto means "I forbid." That's the wrong wording. It's not about "I forbid." The point is that you have great emotional objections. Therefore, they must be brought forward and then the doctor must make a professional assessment, which will always imply that he follows the emotional concerns of the next of kin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u103	Mr De Grave talks about the right of self-determination of potential donors. How does he see the choice of a potential donor that is registered by the government as "doesn't object?"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u104	Mr President, I am sorry, but we have been talking about this for about the first time. This is a lot of repetition of moves. We have talked about this core concept throughout the first term. It's about where you put the central emphasis. Are you placing the right of veto on survivors, or are you putting the central point in the right of self-determination of the person concerned? Next, the debate is about how to deal with this right of self-determination. The current law, which you so strongly defend, also violates the right of self-determination, for example because it is not the person concerned who decides, but the next of kin who decides. I have given all these examples. However, we must try to balance the current law with the new law when it comes to the even decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u105	Mr De Grave completely ignores a conscious choice that people can make by not registering and the fact that people simply cannot or do not want to make a choice. You'll get past that. It's definitely a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u106	In my view, in the first period, I have given a very detailed description of how this is also being considered and looked at in various ways in my group. Some Members agree with you in part, although I do not think so in the very one-dimensional reasoning you are using. But you can look at this in different ways. I am concerned about the issue of the right of veto. I want to report two things and I was arguing them. "Veto" means "I forbid," but what matters is that the next of kin, in the current and the new laws, must be able to indicate that they have emotional objections and want it not to happen. That is not a question of 'I forbid', but of 'I have great objections'. The other point, of making it plausible, is that one wants to make it plausible that what is registered is not good. Nor does it have a right of veto, in the sense of "I forbid." No, the point is this: something is registered, for example 'no objection', but there is information that this does not reflect the wishes of the person concerned. The right of self-determination should therefore follow the judgment of the next of kin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u107	Finally, Mr Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u108	My final question to Mr De Grave: doesn't Mr De Grave think that the government is so mixed up in people's choices that this runs counter to the liberal principles that he should really stand for?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u109	I am now being questioned by the PVV about liberal principles. I'm excited about that. The State, we, the legislator, the one who makes standards in this country... On many points, we make trade-offs and standards. We have to consider this. Let me rephrase: there are Members in my group who think this is an important aspect. There are other Members in my group who consider this to be a different matter. Nor do I believe that I have a liberal handbook full of principles and that, when I read that, I get one answer. The interesting thing about liberalism is that people can elaborate on this in different ways and come to different conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u110	Mr De Grave talks about the professional weighting by the doctor of the wishes of the next of kin. But there is no legal framework for that. There are several next of kin. They'll have different opinions. The doctor is therefore able to make that assessment without such a framework. That is a lot less clear, even in the legal sense, than when you say that next of kin have a right of veto; if next of kin doesn't want it or if a next of kin doesn't want it, it doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u111	That's another argument. I would like to point out why I think that veto rights are wrong: they place the emphasis on wrong elements. Something else is: is it sufficiently clear? I note that it is largely based on current practice. Hence my interruption: if we now use very heavy words... Today's practice is also largely based on this, with a new aspect. This has also been discussed in detail, and the letter clarifies this. This might be a little bridge to the motion, if that's all right with you. Because the motion is trying to clarify that. Well, my group in itself has sympathy for that. It's a very long motion. What does the applicant mean by the last subparagraph on Article 23 (3) and in particular on the anchoring of the quality standard? Look, the AMvB gives the ability to create AMvBs. It then states that further rules may be laid down concerning the Protocol referred to in Article 23 (3). I read it like this: okay, so you can say that there has to be a protocol that that and that must comply with. That is understandable and that could help. But what is then anchored in the General Measure of Governance referred to in Article 23 (3)? Because I would like the field parties to be instrumental in the question of what would be in that protocol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u112	Is this a question to Mrs Nooren or to the initiator? And the minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u113	I'm asking, I think, for an explanation of the motion. It seems to me to be the most practical thing that I would like to do first of all with the reaction of the Minister or the initiator to the motion. Mrs Nooren has clearly understood me that this is an important point for me. I think my question is quite clear, namely what exactly are the meaning and scope of the last paragraph. But I would also like to hear the Minister's opinion, but I am sure he will say something about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u114	I have tried to pay close attention to Mr De Grave's quick speech. And yet it's not quite clear to me yet. It's obvious he's having trouble with the word "vetorecht." Well, we're not gonna argue about words. But I have understood Mrs Dijkstra's letter in such a way that the next of kin have the last word. Whether you call that "a veto" or not, do you agree? For you also said that the registration and self-determination of the deceased are leading. What's the last word for the VVD Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u115	I have already quoted my first-term words twice. And twice I said, in practice, the doctor will follow the judgment of the next of kin. What else do you want to know about me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u116	And that's what the VVD wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u117	That is the position of the VVD, which is our first and second-term interpretation in two interruptions. That's what we think. Then I will explain why I think that is a better line of reasoning than the term'vetorecht'. That is why, on behalf of my group, I give the argument, both in terms of the word'veto' and in terms of the word 'right'. So I can't make Spanish out of this: it's clear that in practice the doctor will follow the judgment of the next of kin. First term, second term, consistent line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u118	At least that is what Mr De Grave trusts. It's pretty clear, thanks for that. The last word is on the next of kin. That is also the wish of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u119	Eventually, yes. But there's also a dialogue, there's a conversation. It's not like: I have a veto, I don't want it. There's something more going on than that. That is well described in the letter. That is why I think that is much better than anchoring a right of veto. Mr. Chairman. I'll finish very briefly. In the first term, I said something about the costs. At that time I indicated that I am also a financial spokesman on another point. Normally I'm very tight when it comes to cover, but this is an initiative from years ago, and it's hard to ask the initiator to provide cover for it at that time. That's on the Minister's sign right now. He's declared the cost. The Animal Party says there's never been more than $3 million spent. I do not know exactly whether that is true, but apart from that, the costs that the Minister mentions are, of course, much wider. This is not just about information, but also about the registration system and keeping it up to date. Of course, we also have these costs in the current system. If the law were not to be passed, we would have other costs, because then the minister would have to do all kinds of other things to get more organ donations. So there is a new nuance to these costs. I assume that the Minister will undertake that, if the law is passed, there will be care taken to ensure adequate implementation of the law. This seems inherent in the movement between the Chamber and the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u120	Mr De Grave does not know if what I say is true about 3 million a year. Between 2008 and 2014, 20 million have been spent, so you can calculate it yourself. By appealing to the Public Administration Act, this has been requested and calculated. So you can assume from me that there's never been more than three million spent. What is important to establish is that no large sums have been spent on campaigns. Anyone who says that these campaigns did not work, and therefore we now need a law instead of those non-working campaigns, and who then depends on that law a price tag of 65 million plus 7 to 8 million per year, indicates that the new solution is far more costly than the old one, which apparently has not been fully used.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u121	I already understood that, so that's a repeat of argumentation. My point was much more that the costs indicated by the Minister are much wider. These are mainly related to registration and its management. That's where the big costs are. In a way, you compare apples to pears. My question to the Minister is whether he can promise that, if the law is passed, resources will be provided to implement this law properly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u122	Thank you, Mr. De Grave. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u123	Mr. Chairman. Last week we asked for more clarity from Mrs Dijkstra. We received a letter from her on the amendment. That letter has indeed made a lot of sense. For those who were still in doubt, it has become clear that we are dealing with a proposal that carries great risks. The ADR refers to a registration of no objection if citizens have not responded to a call for registration. The argumentum ex silentio, who does not speak up, is described in the legal argumentation as a textbook example of a deception. Professor Schonk, specializing in medical information systems regulations, sent us an intrusive e-mail explaining that failure to respond to government letters cannot be interpreted as an explicit statement of no objection. However, it has been included in the proposal that it will be interpreted in this way. I would like to know from the Minister whether he believes with us that the government has a duty to record the wishes of the deceased or the lack of knowledge about them correctly and whether he believes that the lack of information can be filled in as if there has been no evidence of any objection. In the explanatory statement to the amendment, Ms Dijkstra stated that the doctor's starting point would always be the registration found. If so, it is once again necessary that the government records correctly on the basis of factual information, not on the basis of assumptions. Professor Schonk talks about administrative fraud in this respect and she is not the first to be the best in this field. I would like to hear from the applicant and the Minister how they assess that. And I ask the Minister if he is prepared to make a proposal in such a way that registrations under the Organ Donation Act are aligned with the choices mentioned on the donor registration form, free of interpretations. And if that is the case, whether he believes that such a proposal should be made before Mrs Dijkstra's law can take effect. Mr President, then the position of the next of kin. In her letter, Mrs Dijkstra writes that her proposal is based on the premise that relatives do not have a formal right of veto, but that she also assumes that, in case of doubt, relatives will have a decisive vote in the implementation practice. Can the applicant make it clear how the failure to grant a formal right of veto to survivors and the granting of a decisive vote to survivors will take place in the implementation practice? Especially since the concerns of survivors are submitted to individual doctors for assessment, without any further legal framework. Surely this should lead to a legal vacuum that unnecessarily complicates the legality and enforceability of the law and the legal status of survivors? I'd like a response to that. Does the Minister agree with me that the legal status of survivors should be unambiguous and free from private, unverifiable interpretation of individual doctors and cannot be postponed to future implementing protocols which are not yet subject to review for legality and enforceability? Mr. Chairman. We have received many e-mails from concerned citizens asking for attention to protocols in the area of brain death and heart death and their revision, which is advocated by many experts. A great deal of attention is rightly paid to the position of the recipient of donor organs, but the position of donors remains underexposed, for example the position of children under the age of 12 who act as organ donors under a protocol that has not even entered into force. Can the petitioner or the minister explain the position of children who act as donors? How does consent come about? And what legal review applies in case of disagreement with parents? Mr. Chairman. The Party for Animals is a strong supporter of organ donation, provided that it is well arranged and based on well-founded, personal, well-considered choices. Unfortunately, that is not the case in this amendment. Implementation of this proposal will cost between 50 and 65 million at introduction and 7 to 8 million per year in structural terms. Apart from the many legal shortcomings in the proposal, we can see that no such amounts have ever been spent on good campaigns for real Active Donor registration, simply from the positive choice of informed citizens. Protection of post-mortem physical integrity as fought by Annelien Kappeyne of the Coppello of the VVD, supported by many liberal leaders............................................................................................................................................................................................. But the campaigns from 2008 to 2014 only invested 20 million, less than 3 million a year. The enormous sums that must now be allocated to an incomplete system make it clear that this is in no way proportionate to informing and convincing citizens and making a personal choice. Please explain to the Minister and the applicant the relationship between these efforts, including in terms of subsidiarity and proportionality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u124	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. I shall suspend the sitting until 4.30 p.m. The suspension would be from 3.30 p.m. to 4 p.m., but is now from 4 p.m. to 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u125	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the bill 33506, Proposal for a law of member Pia Dijkstra amending the law on organ donation in connection with the inclusion of an active donor registration system. I give the floor to Mrs Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for the questions that have been asked today and which I will answer in a moment. I would also like to express my appreciation for the opportunity given to me last week to give a more detailed explanation by letter in order to clarify the situation of next of kin. Madam President. In my first term, I have already indicated that everyone in this Chamber shares the goal of achieving more organ donors. That's obvious, and there's a lot of compassion with the people on the waiting list. But the question before us today is whether this bill is the right way to do this. That is why I think it is important first of all to note that the present proposal comes from an opinion made by the Coordination Group on Organ donation in 2008, almost ten years ago. That CGOD came to the conclusion by a majority at the time that an Active Donor Registration System should be put in place and said: "The ADR ensures that necessary interventions such as measures in hospitals and education are more successful than has been evident over the past 10 years. According to the CGOD, a system change to the ADR is thus a prerequisite change in order to make progress in the areas of hospitals and information." Mr. Chairman. The objective was to achieve 25% more donations. This was seen as the lower limit for any success of all measures. That 25% target amounts to 800 post-mortem transplants. But that goal has never been achieved in those ten years. In recent years, for example, 705 donations took place. I think it is important to stress that the other measures in the master plan have been taken over, but they have not achieved the desired effect without the legislative amendment. That was warned at the time. ADR was seen as a prerequisite and the measures had to be seen mainly in conjunction. As far as I'm concerned, that warning still applies. Mr. Chairman. The accompanying policy in the Netherlands is already well in place. For example, during the expert meeting in your Chamber, the CGOD announced that everything that seemed to be somewhat realistic has been tried. Similarly, NIVEL's research showed that several European countries were comparing. The conclusion of that report is that many countries can still learn from each other, but that some countries including the Netherlands in themselves have a well-developed organ donation system but still have a large shortage of donor organs. Mr. Chairman. This means that I believe that the last recommendation from the master plan should also be introduced. We have many examples of other countries, where we see that the combination of accompanying policies and a no objection system leads to more post-mortem donors. In my view, the present legislative proposal is a careful variant of a no-objection system. It encourages people to make an active choice and repeatedly points out the consequences of non-reactions. It also introduces a reminder for municipalities, and as a final piece, this bill assigns an important role to the next of kin. Mr. Chairman. The doctors who treat the possible donor and guide the family see in practice how complicated it is for relatives who are asked to make a choice, if they do not know what the deceased would have wanted. Because it is often a relatively healthy person who suddenly, for example as a result of a brain bleed, is admitted into intensive care. So the death is almost always unexpected. So preparing for a goodbye, as with a long-term sick bed, is not actually possible. So the question of giving consent to organ donation comes at a very complicated time for the family. And it often happens that the family says, "I am in favour of donation, but I find it difficult to give consent for another." That is also very understandable. If no registration is currently available, only one third of the next of kin consents. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday it appeared that the rate of consent of relatives in Wales has increased further. That is where an opt-out system was adopted in 2015, similar to what we now have in mind with the ADR. You can actively capture a choice in it, but if someone hasn't registered, it's assumed that someone wanted to be a donor. Survivors can also object on behalf of someone. The system in Wales is very similar to the legislative proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u127	The difference with Wales is that the government there does not record what is supposed to be a wish. It's not going to register unregistered donors. Another difference with Wales is that the next of kin is always being listened to. I think that is a fundamental difference. That makes Wales' acceptability easier for many people. Last time, I quoted from other articles in which disappointing results were mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u128	I also replied to that in the first period. In reply to Mrs Martens' question, I said that we can see that the number of donors is increasing, but that the donor potential is falling and that it is not yet quite clear how that is going to happen. It is also assumed in Wales that awareness of the current law needs to be further developed. I have also indicated that Mrs Martens mentioned this in the first term too, that there is no registration system of no objection. That is precisely what makes ADR so transparent. That is exactly what we are doing here in the Netherlands, so that next of kin and doctors know what it says. Then we can have the conversation about that. Mrs Martens also said in the first term that in Wales the next of kin have the last word. I think I made it quite clear in the letter that this is also covered in the system proposed in the present legislative proposal. In Wales as well as in other countries such as Belgium and France, it is also a question of the next of kin having a role to make plausible what the deceased wanted. So that's no different than making it plausible, as it's been arranged with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u129	But I assume that the initiator agrees with me that the status of the letter is a substantially different matter from how it is regulated by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u130	I would like to come back to that in detail, otherwise perhaps the coherence will go out of my story. I would like to answer that question in a moment, but I will be with Wales for a moment, if I may. In 2014, the clearance rate in Wales was 44%. In 2017, it increased to almost 65%. The latest figures, yesterday's, show that the consent rate has risen to 72%. This has also increased the number of donors. This strengthens me in the belief that the default or the standard setting does indeed have an impact. The difference is that next of kin no longer need to be asked for permission. If you know that it's registered that the person who died didn't object, then you have a different starting point. So the next of kin doesn't have to make that complicated choice anymore. They've got a hold on them anyway. But doctors will always talk to the next of kin and the question of whether the registered choice fits with the life vision of their loved one will always be the subject of this conversation. The starting point for the conversation has changed, but the careful handling of relatives and their feelings remains unchanged. To those who say, "Don't you have to lay that down much better in that law?" However, I would like to say that you cannot set legal standards for dealing with or feeling of next of kin. That's something that happens between patient and care professional. In my letter in response to questions from your Chamber, I explained that the existing situation that a doctor will decide not to make organ donation because of serious family concerns will also be maintained in this bill. It will also apply to those who are registered with "no objection" because, even after the possible change of law, a doctor will choose, for example, to give priority to the concerns of the survivors in the event of a serious psychological emergency. Moreover, this applies both to the registration "no objection' and to the explicit "yes'. At the moment, this also applies to an explicit "yes." I am being accused of doing something new, which I also get back in e-mails, but this also applies in the current law. In the law on organ donation, a doctor may decide, even in the case of an explicit "yes," that there will be no withdrawal on the grounds of serious family concerns. I would like to clarify this: the doctor is not required to take out, so it may also be different. A no-registration will not be waived. Mrs. Martens asked for that. If there's a no-registration, there's no conversation about organ donation. Mr. Chairman. There has been talk of the formal right of veto. There is no such thing in this law. As far as I am concerned, Mr De Grave has explained this very well. I would like to join in that. Such a right of veto would stand in the way of the dialogue between doctors and relatives, while keeping the possibility of that dialogue open. You also want to do justice to individual situations. In such a conversation, the doctor can also remove objections, doubts or fears. There are people who do not understand what the procedure means and who are just very afraid of it. So you need to see where the problem is. The doctor will want to do justice to the registered wish of the donor. It remains the starting point, but it will be true that there will be no donation if serious concerns on the part of the next of kin cannot be eliminated. That means that the next of kin have a decisive vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u131	I was just listening to what was the right time for my question. A moment back, you were talking about the default. That is true, but my group does insist that the doctor should take into account in that conversation whether it is a situation of someone who says 'well, you know, I hear that in the field; that is pretty easy; I don't need to register anymore because I am an automatic donor', as was mentioned in the previous period, or whether it is someone who, for some reason, doesn't want to register. It makes a lot of difference how that conversation is conducted. Is the default "there's no objection, so someone's a donor"? Or is the default "in the registration state no will of your next of kin, in our system does this mean that..."? We think it is very important that the latter should be included in the discussion. It's a different beginning than: the registration doesn't contain a will of your next of kin, so your loved one, as you call it in the letter, is a donor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u132	I fully agree with what Mrs Nooren is saying here. The point is that the doctor will always have the conversation, with any kind of registration, even with a yes registration. I also spoke to relatives who had to deal with that question when there was a very clear "yes" and they also knew from the conversation that there was a very clear "yes" and wish. They said: at that time it is very difficult, but because we had such a hold on that registration we could finally say yes and agree, and we did not object. But you always have to take that into account. That is also the doctor's duty to care for the next of kin. There is no record of any example, at least let me always make a reservation, there is no record of a doctor saying "yes," so it doesn't matter what the next of kin say; we're just gonna do it. There's a conversation about it. Sometimes there are multiple conversations. Time is given for this. That's incredibly important. That's what the care professional's supposed to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u133	Mrs Dijkstra points out that it always depends on the individual situation and that that is precisely why you cannot catch it as a rule. At the same time, she says that the concerns of the next of kin are always decisive. I mentioned the example of someone who explicitly said 'yes', who thinks it is very important that this happens, but then a next of kin shows up, who may not have had contact with that donor for 20 years, who says: I simply don't want it. How do you rhyme with that? Is that such an individual situation that the doctor can take into account? Could it be that such an objection is not decisive for the doctor's decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u134	If you will allow me, Mrs Strik, I will return to this question in the answer. This is, after all, a separate situation. If I fail to do so, Madam President, I would ask Mrs Strik to remind me of that. Mr. Chairman. There may also be a situation where relatives do not come out among themselves and there is division. In that case, donation will be waived. That is what I say to Mrs Nooren and Mrs Baay, who asked for this. Of course, the doctor will discuss these doubts in the interview. You can imagine that, too. The doctor tries to be as complete as possible in the information he or she gives and will try to remove those doubts in the conversation about this with the next of kin who has concerns, while the other next of kin agree. But if there is disagreement, there will eventually be no donation, according to the healthcare practice. I keep trying to think very carefully about what that situation is. That situation is very difficult for everyone. In addition, you do not want to stand in the way of the mourning of the next of kin. That is also the current practice. I didn't want to change it in this bill. In addition, the present legislative proposal provides for the possibility for the next of kin to make it plausible that "no objection" or "yes" does not correspond to the wishes of the person concerned. I just want to pull that off of each other for a second. On the one hand, there are serious concerns about survivors who may lead to psychological distress or which may result in them not being able to go through mourning in a good way. On the other hand, there is "that was the will of the person concerned."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u135	I do not think the difference is made with people who have a yes registration or an explicit no registration. It is mainly about those who have not responded. ADR fundamentally alters the position of survivors. Well, that's a difference, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u136	A category is added. We now have the yes registration, the no registration and "I leave it to a specific person or the next of kin." Now there is a large category that does not register. In addition to 'yes' and 'no', we also have 'no objections'. That has come at the explicit request of the House of Representatives, so that you can see the difference. So it also matters to next of kin. That's why this is so important. This proposal tries to activate people to talk to their families about it. There are people, as has already been said by others, who are already saying that 'no objection' is exactly the category they fall under. They say: I haven't registered, but I'm fine with it. Those people are gonna have to talk to their families about that, too. I think it was Mrs Martens who mentioned the family conversation. Mr Van Dijk also mentioned this. That is, of course, a very important part of the activation of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u137	It is not about a new, added category, but about registering the people who have not responded. That category was already there, but it's about not registering. There are, of course, people in there who would like to be a donor. There are also people who don't know if they don't want to be. It's about registration; that's the big difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u138	Sure, that's right. Mrs Martens is right to say that. That is why we have included in the present legislative proposal the possibility for the next of kin to make it plausible that a "no objection" would not correspond to the wishes of those concerned. That is why Article 20 (5) provides for this role for the next of kin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u139	Finally, Mrs Martens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u140	But that's exactly the difference. Where there was the consent obligation, the ADR has to make it plausible for the category that has not registered. That is not a favor or an additional possibility, but it is an additional possibility compared to the original proposal as it was submitted in the House of Representatives. Compared to the WOD, the current law, it's not an extra favor. No, it's a restriction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u141	Mrs Martens speaks of a restriction, but I would say that it is an enrichment in that sense, because you are addressing the very group of people who have not been registered at the moment, but who do want to be a donor. Those people are offered a way to get this recorded in this way. That is why I have also written in the letter to your Chamber and in the reply that it is very important that, in the case of other opinions, relatives can make it plausible or explain that someone has not done so consciously, for example because letters have been missed or whatever. I think this is in fact a refinement when it comes to the self-determination of people. This is about the wish of the registered person, who must be at the forefront.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u142	Mrs Dijkstra outlines a situation in which someone who is not registered would have the wish to donate. Do you not think that this is too short and that this does not do justice to the real desire of this person? Don't you think that a conversation with next of kin is a little uneven because the doctor who's doing the interview is having such conversations every day because it's his profession, while the next of kin are in a grieving process? Don't you think this would stand in the way of such a conversation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u143	I think it is precisely the job of the healthcare professional, the medical specialist who is dealing with the relatives, to speak very well with them. I would like to come back to a question from Mrs Nooren about possible support that relatives would need in order to have that conversation properly. The grieving process is started there because a loved one or a family member died. You don't want inequality between people who can put that very well and perhaps less overwhelmed by emotions and the people who have a hard time with it. I will come back to that in a moment, because you can see that attention is already being paid to this in most hospitals and transplant centres. As I have said, I would like to come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u144	Mrs Dijkstra says that the alleged wish of the unregistered person must always be a starting point. But that's not true, is it? Do you think so? If so, explain this, because it is not the person's wish at all if he has not been registered. The government assumes that this is indeed "no objection," but it is being fought by a lot of people who are now even considering saying no to your law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u145	Let us not neglect the whole information and information campaign that comes with this change of law when it comes to it. It is also very important that people are written on, that people understand what the law change is about. For example, people who deliberately do not register also know what it means that there will be "no objection." We will have to do everything we can to ensure that this is as complete as possible. That will of course be discussed, but has also been discussed in the first period. Those who find it difficult to understand must also be included, so that they understand. People need to learn from that information campaign that if you don't really want to decide and have doubts, you can leave it to your next of kin. This is also the case under the current law: if you do not register now, you leave it to your next of kin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u146	Finally, Mr. Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u147	Yes, this is my last question, Mr. Chairman. Do you not agree, Mrs Dijkstra, that informing the bourgeoisie, of people, should not be limited so much to donating or not registering, but that this should include a broad-based information about what organ donation means? Because there is a huge amount of discussion, and that probably also contributes to the fact that people cannot come to a choice to register.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u148	Of course, I think it is very important that there is good information and that people know what such a process means. This will also play an important role in the information campaign. I have already mentioned the example of Wales, where the whole donation process is being explained. We have a very good brain death protocol in the Netherlands. You're also gonna have to explain how that works. By the way, this is already explained to next of kin by the doctors if there is no clarity about the deceased's wish. That is also the subject of discussion. That has nothing to do with the possible legislative change. Mr. Chairman. Let me see where I left off. I had just lost the last comment. I have said that next of kin have the possibility of making it plausible that any "no objection" or "yes" does not correspond to the wishes of the person concerned. This is provided for in Article 20 (5). The doctor will indicate how someone is registered. In making it plausible, it is explicitly the wish of the deceased. Survivors can make it plausible that the registration does not correspond to that will. Make that plausible is form-free. That doesn't ask next of kin to prove anything. Every conversation will be different. A list of criteria that the dialogue should meet would, in my opinion, not do justice to the individual approach that is appropriate to this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u149	Mrs Baay asked for this, and so did my group. We are not talking about a list of criteria, but we do think it is very important that the basic position of the person in the register is quite important, whether it is 'yes' or 'no objection' or 'no statement'. Of course, we are going to talk about the protocols, guidelines or whatever you call it. We think it is very important that that part of that conversation is that the doctor starts to discuss the nature of the registration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u150	Of course, of course. If it is discussed that there is "no objection" registered, the doctor will discuss it. I don't hear any different from those involved in this. The doctor is having a conversation about what that means, that someone himself didn't actively say yes, and whether that's true. He then asks: do you know the one who died in that way too? What was he like? I will not go into any further details, but that is, of course, explicitly mentioned in such a discussion. That is why there is also a clear distinction between "no objection" and "yes." Mr. Chairman. If next of kin continue to indicate that the registration does not correspond to the wishes of the next of kin, then in practice it will mean that the information of the next of kin will be followed. This also means that I think it is important to include in the protocols that the next of kin should be reached before donations can be made. In the conversation with the next of kin, circumstances may arise which make a doctor decide not to donate. Moreover, I have been assured that a situation in which the patient is known, as well as his medical history necessary for donation, but where no next of kin can be traced, does not actually occur in practice. That's just as important to report, I think. But if this situation arises, donations must be waived. An overarching protocol may include that no donation should be made if survivors cannot be reached. The most appropriate protocol for this can be established in consultation with the field. Mr. Chairman. I shall now come to Mrs Nooren's motion, but it will allow me to answer some of Mrs Martens' questions concerning the relationship between law, history and protocols. It is actually a combination of an answer to the questions put by Mrs Martens and the motion before us. I also refer to all the comments on whether or not there is a right of veto for next of kin. I have always said that there is no right of veto. That is a formal concept that should be enshrined in the law. This is not the case in the legislative proposal before us, nor in the current law; let us be clear about it. There is no right of veto. In my letter last week, I did explain how things were going, and this ultimately means that feelings and information about relatives will be decisive. I have also outlined the role protocols can play. The motion now proposes to include in a general measure of governance under Article 23 that the doctor will not make a donation if there are no survivors or if survivors have serious objections to donation. I have no problem with that either in principle, because I do not think an AMvB is the wrong place to settle this in advance either. But we will have to wait for the Minister's answer to this, because as the initiator of this, of course, I am not going to do so. This is what the government is about. But if it came to such an AMvB, I wouldn't be happy if we called the position of the next of kin a "veto right." In any case, if we are going to settle something in an AMvB, I think it is important that the current practice of talking and exchanging information between doctors and relatives is maintained, and that they only then come to what you might call the "last word." So I would not want to deal with it directly, by means of a veto, because such a veto is, of course, an obstacle to dialogue. Mr De Grave has already said this. Then the first answer could be "we don't want it," and that's what it's said. You should have the space to remove objections arising, for example, from fear. The AMvB could guarantee that, or at least it should not stand in the way. In short, it doesn't seem easy to shape such an AMvB. But if he can contribute to uniformity in the actions of doctors where there is a need, and allows them sufficient professional freedom to deal with all the different situations they may encounter, such an AMvB can have added value. Moreover, I could very well imagine that the last paragraph of the motion tabled by the Labour Party is also seen in order. First, the possibilities for a quality standard are examined in consultation with the care field. If it is on the agenda, and if it is agreed, it could be enshrined in Rule 23 (3).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u151	Mr De Grave also asked about this. It is not my group's intention to include in the AMvB what is in the quality standard. In that AMvB, the Ministry or Government may, in accordance with Article 23 (3), indicate how to deal with Article 23 (1). It indicates that the field needs to develop a quality standard. I think we agree on the content of that quality standard in the field. By the way, there is a very thin edge between veto and space. For people in my group too, such a motion or such an AMvB helps. In my group, too, there are people who believe that this right of veto should be maintained as it is now. I'm quite right to say it's not here right now. But the point is that next of kin should consent in case people haven't registered. It is not, therefore, the case that everything is settled with that motion. For us, it is a way of guaranteeing, should the legislative proposal enter into force, the due diligence requirements that my group does not see fit to deal with in the current model protocol, and to do something about that vague field which is said to be 'doctors doing so well'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u152	What Mrs Nooren says is very important and I support her in that. I have indicated that it would be very good if there were some sort of rural field standard. It is, of course, also up to the field to establish this, but I must also say to Mrs Nooren that there is indeed no consent from next of kin in the present legislative proposal. You could say that there is more consent: you engage more with each other. Making it plausible is a way in which the next of kin indicate that the person who was registered with "no objection" could never have wanted it. You could well define in protocols how to deal with it. I would like to say something about the justification of this proposal. More than 60% of Dutch people want to become donors, according to successive surveys, but only 24% are registered as donors. My aim is that those who have not yet decided on a choice should be made aware of the choice. By addressing everyone, we can also increase the number of organ donors, but the proposal also requires something from people who do not want to be a donor. It is also a question of whether this is proportionate and whether we can ask people to do so. I think that is justified, because I know that the vast majority of Dutch people, if necessary, would like to receive an organ, for themselves or for someone close to them, a loved one. Therefore, I have often been asked in the public debate why there is no system of reciprocity. The system in Israel was also discussed in the first period. Apart from that, on reciprocity in Israel, I would point out that this is seen as a religious duty there. That is a very different point of departure. The proposal before us is explicitly not based on reciprocity, because we believe that everyone should be free to make their own choice. That choice must also be a no. There is no question of saying yes, without any consequences, because in my view solidarity is the starting point. Anyone who needs it can be eligible for it. After all, care should be distributed according to needs, with medical necessity determining treatment. The principle of reciprocity, whereby you can only receive an organ if you are registered as a donor, is therefore not the starting point. But the bill does want to take into account that almost everyone would like to receive an organ, should that ever be necessary. To ensure that people can be eligible if they need an organ, we need donors. That is, of course, the coherence. That is why I think we should also ask everyone to think about whether they want to be organ donors. If someone doesn't want to, they're asked to report it. I think that is a justified question, also given the fact that someone dies of organ failure every other day. Mr. Chairman. I'll walk through the different questions. Can you give me how much time you still give me for that? Then I'll try to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u153	I'll take a look at it. That's until 6:15 p.m., but that includes the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u154	Okay, I'm gonna go speed up. I hope that Members will give me that and that we may suspend the debate on this until I am through the answers. That is, of course, up to your members themselves. I respect that, of course. Mrs Nooren asked about the primary purpose of the proposal. The general objective is to increase potential donors. That is what we want to achieve by having a registration of everyone. There will also be no registrations. That too is a clear choice, but given that 60% of people now say they want to be donors but only 25% are registered, we assume that the number of positive registrations will also increase and that the number of donors may increase. Mrs. Nooren asked me when you were talking about a successful legislative change. Of course, it's hard to mention numbers, but I think a realistic assessment has been made in the master plan. The master plan assumed that all measures together could lead to an increase of 25%, to 800 postmortem donations per year. I am convinced that this can be feasible, but I also realise that this will of course take time; I will just say that to Mrs Nooren. Information will play an incredibly important role in this. As far as I am concerned, therefore, this information must be aimed at ensuring that people engage in discussions on this matter, and that brings me to the questions about the family conversation. This has played an important role in Wales. The consent rate has increased there; I mentioned 72%. If we succeed in this in the Netherlands... As far as I am concerned, we will have to monitor whether this information reaches its objective, namely that people can understand it and that the discussion on it can be conducted; I believe that the Minister has also promised it in the first term. Mrs Nooren asked me if we could draw conclusions from developments regarding the number and nature of the new registrations. My expectation is that if everyone whose choice is not yet known, there will of course be people who will explicitly register "no', but that a large number of people will explicitly register "yes'. Last week, after the first period of this debate, it was found that a large number of registrations were added every day. One time that's a lot of nees and the other time a lot of yes's. We need to see what effect that will have when this information gets going. The registration, the reminder by the municipality and the information must therefore ensure that this is a conscious choice, but ultimately the next of kin also have a role to play. Mrs Nooren also asked about the financial resources to be made available for the proposal. She asked if you shouldn't suspend the proposal until those resources are there. If the legislative proposal is adopted, the necessary money will indeed have to be released for this purpose, so that the proposal can be implemented carefully. That this can be done is the backbone of this proposal. The coalition agreement states that the decision to come to this bill is up to your Chamber. If it is adopted, money will be released for this. Mrs Nooren also asked for permission for donation and for implant-oriented scientific research. She asked to see that separately. The starting point of the present legislative proposal is that someone who has been repeatedly referred to the possibility of objecting to organ donation but does not use it, agrees that his organs are available for transplantation, with all comments about next of kin. The organs will only be removed for transplantation purposes. It is important to stress this, but if the organ does not appear suitable for transplantation, then the organ may also be used for scientific research aimed at transplantation under the current law on organ donation. So it's not about another kind of scientific research. It therefore serves a very important purpose in terms of organ donation, but the organ has already been excluded. I think it is very important that the doctor also expressly points out that this may be the case; this could also be taken into account in the protocols when they are being drawn up. This is, of course, also part of the good information and the campaign that will have to be made to indicate what happens next. By the way, this has been taken over from the current legislation. Nothing's changed. Mrs Baay also asked about this, so I immediately answered her questions. Madam President. Mrs Nooren asked what safeguards exist to prevent people who are capable of expressing things properly from being given space and people with less thought and ability to do so. Mr Van Kesteren came back to that. Here too, the guarantee lies in the professionalism of doctors, who by definition have to deal with this on a daily basis. I have just tried to indicate this in response to Mr Van Kesteren's questions. Doctors who work in intensive care, where one in six patients dies, are of course very used to having difficult conversations. But I very much agree with Mrs Nooren's question as to whether you should ensure that people are available to assist the next of kin after such a conversation or between conversations with the doctors, all the more so because that is the daily practice. I mentioned the example of the Radboud medical centre in Nijmegen, where specialised nurses are available, but also, for example, a trusted person or a social worker, or just what people need. They're all available to help with that conversation. If, for example, family members or patient organisations concerned feel that it is necessary to include this in a protocol, this could, of course, be discussed, but it is actually a practice. Mrs Nooren also asked whether the information provided by healthcare providers should be involved in possible organ donation if someone is incompetent. Doctors will, as soon as someone comes in, try to find out what the treatment requirements of that person were and how he was in life. That information can be obtained from the healthcare providers and that information will of course play a role, but in the end it is the legal representative or, in his absence, the next of kin who may make the choice they consider appropriate and in line with how they were in life. Then I come to a question from Mrs Martens on the question of compulsory conwilderment. The bill states that if a person is likely to be incompetent and states in the register that he agrees with or has no objection to donation, that choice must be confirmed by the legal representative or the next of kin. If there are none, there will be no organ donation. There may also be cases where there are not in advance doubts about the will of the deceased. Then it is important to make sure that this is done. Sometimes it is known immediately: someone comes directly from the nursing home or whatever. However, in the implementation of this obligation, survivors may be of great importance in terms of information. That's what the KNMG's asking for. But, of course, the next of kin are not the only possible informants with information about the will. It is also possible that, on the basis of information from others, such as the general practitioner, the doctor may conclude that there are no doubts about the will of the person concerned. Or, for example, someone was just brought straight out of work with the ambulance. Then it is much quicker to determine whether there is willlessness. However, there is no organ donation if the next of kin is missing. This is not so much because of the obligation to be conscripted, but because it lacks the possibility of having survivors give information about the deceased's wish. Ms Martens also indicated that the KNMG asked for the role of the next of kin to be properly recorded. In response to my letter of 2 February to your Chamber, the KNMG stated that this letter provides clarity. The KNMG writes: "The information of next of kin about the deceased's wish will be leading under the new proposal, with which next of kin in fact have the last word, as is the case under the current law."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u155	That's right; that's what the KNMG wrote. But it remains to be seen in the letter that it is left to the profession. So being in that one seems to me to be the KNMG contradictory. On the one hand, they are asking for it not to be left to the profession, the individual hospital and the field, but on the other hand it is left to the field in a proposal protocol or in a proposal field standard, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u156	I understand what Mrs Martens is saying, but I find it difficult to discuss what the KNMG thinks on the one hand and on the other. That's really up to the KNMG. I will especially come back to the way the KNMG responded to the letter. I can see from Mrs Martens that she constantly wants clarity. I understand that and that she feels that I am not giving it enough. Mrs Martens also asked me whether I trust that it will be regulated in the protocols in such a way that it will all be implemented. I have that confidence, as what we have regulated in the legislative proposal is in line with current practice. But I do believe that a national field standard will be helpful in this, because it is overarching and there will be no inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u157	You say, what the bill regulates... But you want to do it through protocols, right, because it's not clear in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u158	What I aim to do is to ensure that the healthcare practice that we now have remains unchanged in the legislative proposal before us. This means that it would be a good thing if these protocols were to be designed in such a way that they were uniform and harmonised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u159	Exactly, so it goes through the profession, because that's the healthcare practice, not the law. And that is different from what the KNMG asked, although they also said that they like it. So I get that the initiator says, "What does the KNMG want?" But here is what is important what we want to deal with. Are we going to leave it to the profession, or are we going to take care of it in the law? And this is not about people's feelings, I agree with the initiator, but about the position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u160	It is perhaps good to say again to Mrs Martens that we discussed in the first term that representatives of relatives and patient organisations are also involved in the establishment of the protocols. I supported that too, because that seems very important to me. So you leave it not only to the field to reach that field standard, but also to those involved, who can take their experiences into account. So it's more than just saying that you leave it all to the care professionals. By the way, the protocols are of course there for the professionals, but they are also clear and insightful for anyone who wants to know more about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u161	Can I return to an earlier block of Mrs Dijkstra, in which she talked about the situation in which no next of kin can be found or there are no next of kin? In my view, Mrs Dijkstra indicated that there would be no donation, because it would not be possible to verify whether this would be in accordance with the wishes of the person concerned. Can I conclude that this only applies to no complaints and that the donation can take place if there are no relatives or can be found in the situation where a donor has previously explicitly registered yes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u162	In principle this is possible with a yes registration, but also there the experience shows that it is not known that no one has ever been found, so that no next of kin can be found. So all efforts will be directed towards this. The practice here is therefore that this situation does not arise. But I think that here too will apply to the doctor who can't find a next of kin, that he... I cannot make a clear statement about what happens in that case. In principle, this yes registration is in place and the healthcare professional must comply with it. But like I said, this doesn't usually happen. Let me leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u163	You never know if certain situations will arise or not. I think you want to be able to verify, particularly in the no-objection situations, whether it is in accordance with the donor's wishes. But in the case of active registration, I can imagine that if there is no next of kin, or if there is no next of kin, it will be possible to find it. The objection relates only to the importance of the survivors. If there aren't, I think we should follow "yes," because that was the donor's wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u164	That's what I'm trying to tell you. I myself create a lack of clarity, and I realize that by saying that we are always looking into whether we can find next of kin. That has always been the case so far, but in principle that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u165	This is a difficult case. I assumed that the practice is that there is no exclusion if there are no next of kin. I would also very much like to maintain that practice. The applicant rightly says that this is the current practice, that we assume that and that we do not change anything. This kind of questionable situation shows that you can't rely entirely on what's happening. That is why there is the question of recording it in one way or another and not just relying on protocols. The motion calls in a general measure of governance for a national quality standard to be established. The motion also calls on the Ministry to have influence on its establishment, in the sense that instructions are given on what the Chamber would like and consider important. I can imagine that the applicant will not be able to give an immediate answer to this, but perhaps the Minister will be able to do so later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u166	Indeed, I would like to leave it to the Minister to respond. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Martens informed me about the accompanying policy that I have in mind. The first-term measures to inform people are very important to me. They were also embraced by the Minister. I refer, for example, to information in images and sounds in places where low-literate people often come, such as the pharmacy and the general practitioner. I would also like to clarify how to obtain telephone information. Of course, I support the fact that the Minister wants to give the municipalities an explicit role, even if the law does not work out. That is why a party colleague of mine from the House of Representatives has also requested a motion for a resolution. At present 80% of the municipalities have a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u167	Mrs. Martens, I see you want to interrupt, but can Mrs. Dijkstra speak?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u168	My question is about accompanying policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u169	Yeah, but I still want to try to keep a little structure, in the sense that we're not busy until the middle of the night. I would like to give Mrs Dijkstra the opportunity to make a few meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u170	Mrs Martens indicated that in other countries relatives may object on behalf of someone. That is also provided for in the present legislative proposal. I've mentioned Wales for a while. In Belgium too, the family does not have to give permission, but they are asked whether the donor has not resisted. The right to object on behalf of someone, of course, also have relatives in the Netherlands. In France, family members may refuse on behalf of a family member, but there it is even stronger than here: that is where it has to be written down. It is therefore not unusual for relatives to have to make that plausible. This is already the case in the current situation. When it comes to serious concerns of relatives with a yes registration, we have seen that in about 11% of cases with a yes registration there was no donation. Mrs Martens wondered whether the proposal before us would increase the risk of people wondering who would take priority: the dying patient or the patient on the waiting list. I would really like to tell Mrs Martens that there is a very strict separation in the Netherlands between medical care for someone with brain damage and organ donation or. transplant. Medical specialists take care of patients with severe brain damage after bleeding or trauma, for example. Those are the neurologists and the ICUs. Those doctors will do everything in the best interest of the patient they care for. Their actions are therefore primarily aimed at saving the life of a patient with brain damage or bleeding. That's completely unrelated to the possible donation question. I would very much like to reject the suggestion contained in this question. Mrs Martens asked me to respond to a statement from a professor of medical information systems. It claimed that the registration of no objection could be considered as fraud by the government. When we inform everyone about the consequences of not responding and send a confirmation at home, we are very transparent. I don't see that as fraud. In this respect, I would like to endorse the words of the Minister on this matter in the first term. (NL) Mr President, I think that I am through the questions put by Mrs Martens. I don't know if she's gonna interrupt, or I'm gonna keep going. I think I have also answered the questions put by Mrs Baay and Mrs Nooren. Mr Kuiper once again asked about the right of veto. That's what I've been working on. I have just said how important that is for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u171	I would like to give Mrs Baay the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u172	I had asked a question about Mrs Conen's request that underage children under 12 years of age may possibly be included in the Donor Register by means of the new initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u173	We didn't settle that in the bill before us. In this respect, we have taken over what is regulated by the current law. If an adjustment is needed, this will have to be done at another time. We can't do that here. At present, parents or guardians can have control and decide on organ donation by a child.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u174	That is true, but in this particular situation, the parents or guardian are no longer alive because, for example, they are involved with a minor child in a car accident and as a result die.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u175	I do understand that that is a different situation. I think it is right for the Minister to respond because this is not part of the legislative amendment I am proposing. Mr Don asked me why I would have used the word "would" in the letter saying that a doctor will never start a procedure until the next of kin has been spoken to. Why don't we just include this point of departure in a protocol, because it gives clarity, he asked. It seems to me that this is the right way to deal with this. I have just mentioned Mr Kuiper. I would like to return to the question which was raised just now and to which Mr Ten Hoeve also referred. He said the minister should address the situation in which no next of kin are found. In fact, we said, of course, that there would be no donation process if there were no next of kin. I think that we need to clarify what this is about a yes registration in which no next of kin are involved. That should also be done in the development of protocols on how to deal with them. Mr. Chairman. Mr Ten Hoeve also asked whether it was true that he could trust that doctors would be prepared to refrain from the procedure in the event of serious family problems. The answer is yes. Then Mrs Bredenoord asked for a response to the KNMG's suggestion that a national protocol should be introduced to fill in the dispute, so that there can be no differences between hospitals and so that doctors know what is expected of them. I think that's the right way to go. I wholeheartedly support that. Mrs Strik asked what possibilities I see for recording the process in the event of family problems through the hook of Article 23 (2) of the Organ Donation Act. It is a good thing that family concerns are taken seriously, but the right of veto goes too far. This is also contrary to the system that allows the donor's consent to be leading. But what if the next of kin haven't been in touch for a long time and really don't know what the deceased had to wish for? I would like to point out to Mrs Strik that it is up to the doctor's professionalism to make the objections weigh heavily and also to weigh them in the final decision. This requires procedural safeguards, which are dealt with in those protocols or in a possible directive, which is called for in the motion under which Mrs Strik's name is also mentioned. Mr Koffeman also asked for the right of veto. I answered that. Then the position of underage children and any disagreement between the parents. Again, there are conflicting concerns between relatives. This also means that no donation will be made in existing practice. I have already answered the question about the money that might be needed to change the law. It was agreed in the coalition agreement that this would be made available. I wanted to leave it at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u176	Thank you, Mrs Dijkstra. Then I will give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the first period, I have already said that we leave the opinion on the initiative proposal to the Chamber. I would like to try to act here as an advisor and to provide as much factual information as possible that can be helpful in your decision. A number of questions that have been asked to me have also been put to Mrs Dijkstra or just the other way around. Sometimes I might be able to read her answer because she knows more about the bill than I do. I therefore no longer have a general text, but I would like to reply to the questions that have been put. First of all, the point raised by Mr Van Kesteren of the PVV on one-sided information. Will the Minister work on fair and objective information to donors and relatives? How does he do that? I would like to say to Mr Van Kesteren that he can assume that the government provides honest and reliable information on all the issues that concern you and us, including organ donation. There's always parties watching. In the case of organ donation, for example, this is the Dutch Transplantation Foundation, but also the CIBG, the body of organ donation, which is a crazy word here, the institute that administers the organ register. All the way back, but really as a backup, there is such a thing as the Advertising Code Commission. If the information is not complete enough, then the Advertising Code Commission can make that a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u178	I have asked a more or less similar question. This, of course, focuses on the question of when someone is being used as a donor in brain death. What's brain death? What are the consequences of this? Can the Minister say that this element is essential in information? 'Cause that's what I think it is. For a lot of people, that's something that's scary. At least that must be known.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u179	I can imagine that very well. It is almost impossible to name all the elements of information here, but such a theme as "brain death" will be there... Look, you're not just inventing government information from the government. This often involves circles of citizens who come up with questions. In fact, I am sure that the subject of brain death is a subject that we will have to involve in information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u180	As I said in my first term, one-sided information on organ donation is often highlighted. Those parties shall also participate in the discussion. But there are so many other sounds. Also sounds you hear are often dismissed as fake information. Why aren't these parties invited to this social debate? Then you can achieve that potential donors come to an intrinsic choice as to whether or not to become organ donors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u181	I do not know exactly which bodies Mr Van Kesteren is referring to. But I believe that as a government we are committed to providing good, transparent and reliable information, and I would like to make an effort to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u182	The Minister is asking for an example. Last time I mentioned the author G. Lodewick. He is excluded from everything when it comes to a discussion about organ donation. This does help to ensure that citizens, even if they do not choose what is a choice, are systematically denied a very difficult choice. I still think that the government is inadequate in keeping these people out of that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u183	It is not my intention to give colored information. I think it is important that the government is reliable in the information position it offers to the citizen. That's a very expensive duty. That is what we must continue to commit ourselves to. That must be factual, reliable and where it may be scientifically based information. I can only stress that I think it is very important for the government to put time, space and energy into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u184	Finally, Mr. Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u185	I thank the Minister for this commitment. Those who feel inadequate in this debate or in this discussion, I call on you to come forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u186	The Minister cannot go through all the elements of information. I fully understand that, but when it comes to fair information, the consequence of this bill is that everyone is a donor. This information will therefore have to come out: you are a donor, and if you do not wish to do so, you will have to object. Isn't the curious consequence of this bill that the government will have to start to stress in particular that you can object if you wish? How do you intend to deal with this in information?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u187	Well, as factual as possible. Mr President, in anticipation of the vote in your Chamber next week, we will take both scenarios into account in communication. The law is accepted or the bill is rejected. In both cases, we will have to get on the farm quickly in order to communicate towards the citizen. It does something in society that you are debating here on this subject. This means that, in both cases, we really need to be ready with information for the citizen soon after the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u188	The minister says he's going to get on with the information soon. I also explained in detail in my first term that I am afraid that written or audiovisual information may not reach everyone alone. There must sometimes also be another possibility, for example through the GP, which I mentioned, or a particular profession that takes responsibility for entering into conversation with certain people and asking whether they have received it, whether they are aware of what that means and the like. What can we expect from the Minister in that regard? How does he see if we can start a kind of trajectory for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u189	There have been a few examples in the debate this afternoon, not yet exhaustively. The specialized nurses referred to by Mrs Dijkstra seem to me to be a good way of starting that conversation. Mrs Dijkstra mentioned one hospital as an example. I know by now that in a number of hospitals this form of specialized nurses are present. Please understand, that may not be on day one, after you voted on the bill, organised, but that seems to me to be a very personal way of contact that can help. Mrs Nooren pointed out in the debate the involvement of nurses through GGZ Nederland. That seems to me to be a very practical way of working. We're gonna have to settle that. We will have to examine with the general practitioners, for example through the National Family Doctors Association, how to get their involvement, if not yet applicable, organized in a factual manner. There's a lot more to that than just a banner on the Internet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u190	Fine, thank you. I think it is important to join as many professional groups as possible who are already in contact with people, because that is where you will be able to get the most out of it when it comes to dialogue. I'm glad you're paying attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u191	I share Mrs Strik's view. There was another question on the part of the PVV Group about the incorrect basic registration. What will the Minister do with people who are not properly registered in the basic registration? First of all, citizens have their own responsibility to be properly registered in the Basic Registration Persons. This registration is an important source of information for many public transactions. However, people may still be misregistered. In that case, it is not excluded that those persons are not registered with any objection, in the absence of response to the letter and the letter of appeal. Of course, in that case, the next of kin will not be able to contest it, if it is clear that the letter of registration and the letter of reclamation have been sent to an incorrect address. Mrs Baay-Timmerman of the 50PLUS Group asked about the registration of minor children. It's been about that for a while. Mrs Dijkstra replied. When it comes to young people between 12 and 16 years of age, parents may object to their child's choice. Parents no longer have this possibility in young people from 16 years of age. That is the current practice. I have to say honestly: if the question is what is going on under the new law, I think that the current practice could also be the future practice. I'm looking at Mrs. Dijkstra with a slanted eye. I assume that the same route will be followed, because no other comments have been made in the legislative proposal, so I am looking here for the analogy between the current practice and the practice envisaged in the own-initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u192	One problem with this was, if I am right, that parents who have explicitly said that they do not want to be donors can be confronted with the question: your child has been hit or will die, can we use it as a donor? That could turn out very wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u193	Yes, but also here, you are dealing with an initiative bill. The question is whether there is a change in the new situation compared to the current situation. I can't see that in this case. There was another question from Mrs Baay-Timmerman about accompanying policy, and that question was also raised by Mrs Martens of the CDA Group. Can the accompanying policy be further optimised, inter alia by providing good information? The CDA Group asked whether the conclusion is correct that the Minister sees room for additional activities under the current law, such as the legal task for municipalities. That is indeed a good example. In the first term, I also discussed what Mrs Dijkstra's own-initiative proposal says about the possibility of giving municipalities a legal role in the provision of information on organ donation. Another possibility for accompanying policies could be those specialized nurses that are increasingly used in practice. There was another question from Mrs Baay-Timmerman about the information campaigns. They're very important. Mrs Baay-Timmerman has asked to say that this information is repeated and will continue to take place. I consider this question to be of great importance not only before the introduction of the law, but certainly also in the first period after the entry into force, at least that is how I see it: not only before, but also at the time of the law. Mrs Baay-Timmerman and others mentioned the amount of 65 million. I would point out that out of the 65 million, 20 million are earmarked for campaign activities; another budget, in the order of 25-35 million, for the registration letters and then a part for IT.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u194	There will of course be new generations, so of course they will have to be informed again and again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u195	Sure, but we already do. I also pointed that out in the first period. Every 18-year-old gets a letter. New residents will receive a letter. It's a letter now and if it's up to me, it's still a letter for a very long time, but as time goes on, as a government, we'll have to see what we need to add to it to reach 18-year-olds and new residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u196	The Minister states that he attaches great importance to good information. I would like to ask him how it is possible that we have come to the conclusion from the lack of information in recent years, which hardly any money has been spent on, because there has been little investment in campaigns, that we cannot convince people enough to opt for donorship. With this change of law, a huge sum of 65 million and 7 to 8 million each year will suddenly be available, which we did not have available before. Isn't that a very strange situation? Wouldn't it have been better if we had a good campaign first, and on that basis we could have found that people are not reachable, you know what, we're going to introduce an active or passive donor registration system?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u197	There is an initiative proposal here. On behalf of the cabinet, if the bill is accepted, I have to look for cover as a hazedog. That everything has been attempted in the past and that if the bill is rejected by you, it must also continue to be invested in communication and information, that is clear. That is your wish, and that is also stated in the Master Plan organ donation, but we must only talk about the legislative proposal here, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u198	I understand that the Minister says so, but on the other hand, the Minister in the government agreement is bound by the amounts that have now been mentioned. Prior to the adoption of the law, the coalition agreement states that we are going to withdraw these amounts. I would ask the Minister for an appreciation: how does he look at the fact that in the past the cabinet has failed to spend serious sums on donor campaigns and now suddenly makes a multitude of them available?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u199	I think it is important to communicate intensively on the subject of organ donation. I don't judge the past. About the present, I try to provide the Chamber with the most factual information. We share the future with an passed bill or not. In both cases information is of great importance and will cost us money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u200	Finally, Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u201	Do I understand the Minister correctly that, if the law is not passed, the same amount will be released by the Cabinet for a donor campaign?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u202	No, it's too soon. I think that would put the initiative proposal too much into other initiatives. On the basis of the current Master Plan Organ donation, I dare say that we must also make a great deal of efforts in the coming years to communicate on this subject. I hope I have answered the questions of the 50PLUS Group sufficiently. I come to the questions put by the PvdA, by Mrs Nooren. Is the difference between transplantation and scientific research to next of kin explained? First, something about how it's taken care of. The Donor Registry site provides information on the objection to a transplant, aimed at scientific research. When someone digitally registers with a "yes, I give permission," they immediately ask if anyone objects to transplant-oriented scientific research. Also in the registration confirmation, in the case of a yes registration, the person is reminded that one can object to this scientific research. This form is provided by the Donor Register. In case the choice is left to the next of kin, this question will also be discussed with the next of kin. If the ADR is adopted, then I will have to look again at all aspects of the new Donor Act, including this one. This certainly applies also to consequences relating to scientific research. There must be no confusion among the Dutch people as to what the meaning of the law is and what it means for everyone in what situation. I believe that our communication budget should also be used for this purpose. Another question about the costs, not only of Mrs Nooren, but also of the VVD Group. Are you going to make a proposal to the Spring Paper to ensure that there are sufficient resources to implement the bill? If the Chamber agrees to the initiative legislative proposal, I will involve the financial coverage of the costs in the spring decision-making on the 2019 budget. Then there is the question of the AMvB Article 33. I thought I had answered it in the affirmative in the first term. Mrs Nooren asked when to talk about a successful implementation of the bill. I would like to add the words of Mrs Dijkstra, namely that the bill encourages people to make a choice about organ donation. That is at the heart of what Mrs Dijkstra is proposing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u203	What I intend to do with that question is to obtain clarity from the Minister. The bill is linked to two thoughts: more people speaking out and more potential donors. We have seen in recent weeks that more no registrations have been received here as a result of the debate. This can have a number of causes. This also concerns the question of research. My group believes it is important for the Ministry to look closely at good information. It was just about the brain death protocol. Very valuable things are said about that. It may also be that people have misunderstood for a moment. We've received hundreds of e-mails. Some of them really hit your heart. Some of them are true, but some of them I also think: if we were to inform those people a little better, they'd understand better what's going on. That is why I think it is important for the Minister to be aware of what is happening at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u204	I also reply in the affirmative to that question. If the Chamber adopts the bill, communication is not just rolling out and putting up a poster. In the period up to July 2020, if this is to be the date of introduction, we will have to do the communication at many times and in many forms. We will also measure the impact and the outcome of the information. Mrs Nooren also asked whether I would include the nature and extent of the demographic characteristics of the non-objection category in the evaluation. The figures are now kept up to date by the CIBG, the institute that manages the Donor Registry. In addition, the CBS maintains data on age and origin. Both data can be used in the evaluation. However, we must respect the privacy rules. That goes without saying, but I think that this issue can be dealt with in the evaluation and that the Chamber will then be given that evaluation. Then there is a question that has also been put to Mrs Dijkstra. What happens if the next of kin are divided about the wish or a person would have wanted to be a donor? In today's practice, a doctor will not proceed to take out if there is a division of the decision of the next of kin. I have no reason to believe that this practice will be different under the new rules. Then there is Mrs Nooren's question about the limited capacity group. In addition to parties such as Pharos and the Foundation Reading & Writing, she proposes to involve the National Association POH-GGZ. I think that's fine. Then there is the question of guarantees for people with less thought and ability to deviate from the Donor Register. That is why we need consultation with the field. Mrs Dijkstra has dealt with this in detail. We will also involve patient organisations. The Dutch Transplantation Foundation works with volunteers that we may also be able to rely on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u205	I am concerned that it is important that such a conversation should involve someone who is neutral in it. If there are people from the Dutch Transplantation Foundation or transplant nurses, then the family has the idea that these people have a certain kind of biased goal. I'll take a look at how that's settled in long-term care. There is working with client confidants, people who are only listening to someone and ask what that person has left of the conversation, whether he has understood and what he would like to ask. Those people don't belong to the club that's trying to see if people are willing to transplant. Then you really take a different position in the conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u206	I agree. On the basis of the debate just now with Mrs Dijkstra, I am thinking about which parties other than doctors could play a role in such a discussion. It seems to me that this could be the Patient Federation of the Netherlands or the patient organisations. Perhaps the volunteer of the NTS will not be a good example in all respects. For me, this is part of the good communication on the subject. If the Chamber adopts the bill, I will have to look at how we get the information well with people, including those with a more limited capacity for thinking and doing. Mrs Nooren also asked for a different AMvB. It's part of Article 23 (3) of the WOD. I'd like to put that in front of you, too. Can the Minister respond to the inclusion in protocols that a client confidant is available for next of kin? That too was a question from the PvdA Group. As an example, the specialist Nurse could do a service there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u207	If AMvBs are being hung, it only has to be once that's what I understand. Can the Minister promise that there will be a repair law to ensure that the AMvB is always put forward? That is the purpose of this discussion. The Minister may later come to the possibility of discussing the protocols, the AMMs and the way in which they relate to the basis of the delegation. If it isn't, I'd like to ask now, but otherwise later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u208	Maybe I can include that in the discussion of the motion. Then I'm gonna come up with a confession. Mrs Nooren asked a question about this, as did Mrs Martens and Mrs Bredenoord. In fact, I would simply like to join the debate here as it has just been with Mrs Dijkstra. That seems most practical to me. Then there is a question from Mrs Martens of the CDA about the interpretation of the law. The role of the next of kin as described in the bill and the role of the next of kin as described in the initiator's letter are different, according to Mrs Martens. Isn't it true that in case of conflict, the text of the law goes above the explanation of the letter? Mrs Dijkstra's letter forms part of the parliamentary examination of the legislative proposal and thus forms a basis for the interpretation of the legal text. Then I'll get to the next of kin position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u209	Indeed: for the explanation of the law. But if there is light between what the letter says and what the law says, then the law prevails. That was actually the question. Am I right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u210	I'm looking at the initiator. I think that's true. But I think that what is being exchanged here in the first and second periods should be involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u211	Indeed, in the eyes of some there is light between what is in the law and what is in the letter, because there are other things in it than are regulated by the law. In the end, the question is: what is going to prevail?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u212	You asked questions about this in the first and second periods. Mrs Dijkstra's answers are, of course, part of the legal text. One cannot be seen apart from the other. You may have more experience and history at this point than I do, but you can soon. But I still think it's one thing at a time. You ask for an explanation of the initiative proposal to Mrs Dijkstra. Mrs Dijkstra wants to clarify this and, where necessary, I am trying to provide you with additional factual information, which you can include in the consideration. So it's one thing at a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u213	Finally, Mrs Martens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u214	I get that it's what it is when it comes to clarification. But where it determines something different than the legal text, you talk about a different situation. Then the law prevails. Perhaps we should not go into this further, Mr President, but I wanted to have noticed this. Because it says something about the value, the status, of the letter. It can clarify, but it doesn't change. That seems to be what they want to do in relation to the law. For example, the interpretation of at least a number of Members here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u215	But I did not hear that in Mrs Dijkstra's speech. It does not seek to amend the initiative proposal but to clarify it. Now I'm here on a very thin path to provide you with factual information, but that's how I read the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u216	Mrs Strik, one question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u217	The Minister is actually already answering a question I would have. Mrs Martens often points out that there would be some kind of contradiction. I haven't found it yet. I understand that the Minister also says here: it is a clarification and not a contradiction to what is in the law. That seems important to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u218	That's how I listened to it. I do not believe that Mrs Dijkstra has tried to make an angle to her own initiative proposal. Not in her speech, not in the letter. Another question from the CDA group and also from the OSF was: how is the next of kin secured? For the next of kin who have serious objections, the bill does not change anything. The current practice is that doctors do not make organ donations in this case. This is the responsibility of the doctor. The SP Group noted that the evaluation of the master plan in 2014 indicated that the number of organ transplants increased by 11%. Is this increase also to be seen in 2015? Yes. I do not have the figure at hand, but the upward trend continued in that year. This was to a lesser extent the case in 2016. There was a slump in it, you might say, a slight drop. Then there is the next question from the SP Group. The minister says that the experience of next of kin is given a role in the field standard. Does the minister have any idea what place next of kin get in that field standard? I think it is right to involve next of kin in the formulation of this field standard. I would like to think a little longer about who exactly should be, after the little debate with Mrs Nooren. But I think it's a good thing that we give the next of kin a role in that when the Chamber adopts the bill. This too is a question from the SP Group: do you agree that all efforts are being made on additional information, even if this bill is not adopted? I have said more: even if the bill is not accepted by you but rejected by you, we will have to put extra energy on information and information. But I didn't intend to take the bill out of the sails. However, I am quite clear that we are paying attention to the subject of information and communication. Of Mr Ten Hoeve of the OSF, the question is: who are his next of kin? The next of kin are primarily the spouse, partner or other partner with whom the person was living together at the time of death. Can the Minister respond to the question whether there is no donation in case no next of kin are found? If the next of kin cannot be traced, it is reasonable that there should be no organ donation. Even in the case of a "yes" or "no objection," the doctor must inform the next of kin. In this way it is ensured that they are given the opportunity to challenge the registration or to express their objections.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u219	In the light of time, Mr Ten Hoeve, you have the right to make one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u220	That's enough, Mr. President. Of course, there are usually more relatives involved than just the partner. But I understand that there is no demarcation. This means that it depends on the willingness of the doctor in question whether someone is counted. Does he want to listen, or does he think: that's too far away from me from the patient?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u221	This is a question about the role of the doctor. I listened very carefully to Mrs Dijkstra. It's standing practice that the doctor does his utmost to track down his next of kin. I have not been exhaustive about the question of who can be a next of kin, but of course you start as close as possible in the first place. Then there is the question by Mr Ten Hoeve whether the Minister can guarantee that the information is clear to everyone about brain death. Mr. Chairman. Here a pass fits the place. My ministry will do its utmost to provide honest information about brain death. Of course, I can never give a 100% guarantee that it is clear to everyone, but it must be actively focused on that. Then there is a question from Mrs Bredenoord from the D66 Group on Wales. There a regular sample was carried out during the campaign showing that 80% of the population were sufficiently aware of the legislative change prior to the entry into force of the law. Could something like this be done in the Netherlands? It seems to me a good point, if you accept the bill, that this monitoring will take place, not only until the law is introduced, but also when the law is introduced. Two more questions from the Animal Party, from Mr Koffeman. First of all, how is the government going to assess if someone is registered as "no objection" or whether it is a factual registration or an assumption? In fact, we have had this discussion in the first place: as long as it is a citizen who is aware of what registration means, this registration is equivalent to a yes. What is and remains of course important is that we make a firmer commitment to information. You discussed it all in your speech, and I repeat it here. Mr. Chairman. Then the point of the money. 20 million invested in the donor campaigns. I think I've gone into that enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u222	Given the time, Mr. Koffeman, one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u223	Yes. The Minister refers to the first deadline, but I asked a supplementary question based on the e-mail we all received this week from Professor Schonk. Professor Schonk says: it is nothing less than administrative fraud. At the moment when someone has not checked in and the government registers you as "no objection," this means, especially if the applicant says that the doctor will base himself on the wording used in the Donor Registry, that the doctor assumes that someone has no objection, whereas in fact that is not the case. So I would like a substantive answer from you and no reference to the first deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u224	But I don't think there's any form of administrative fraud. We really discussed it in the first term. Then I thought there had been another professor who also took the word "fraud." I thought it was Mrs Martens who quoted that in her speech. What matters here is that citizens are aware of what registration means and that there is therefore a need for a high level of information. If we do that right, I don't think there's really any fraud. Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on the motion for a resolution. There's two requests in there. One is to enter into consultation with the field. In fact, Mrs Dijkstra included in her letter following the debate in the first term a passage on what VWS is going to initiate, namely consultation with the field. There is a result from that. If the desire is to embed that result in a quality standard, I think that is a good idea. Mrs Dijkstra says even more precisely than I do now that the importance of consultation with the field is paramount, first of all. Eventually, that leads to a result, which result we could anchor. Turning to Mrs Martens, if this proposal for an initiative amends the law on organ donation, we can include the repair law. If the AMvB needs to be changed one more time, I'm quite willing to put it forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u225	Mrs Nooren, but in the context of time one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u226	Of course, Mr. Chairman. What the motion is about is that a quality standard is broader than a health-related protocol directive, but also about the organisational aspects: the things that have all changed here and are not now in the transplant protocol. I hope I can interpret the Minister's answer in such a way that the field is defined widely. We have noted a number of things that are not actually included in the current protocol, such as the role of the next of kin and any disagreement. The intention of the motion is to set up a quality standard which takes a broad view, including on aspects relating to the organisation of transplant care. You may not have read it, but I have read it: it is not covered in the current protocol. It merely states that next of kin must be informed and that consent should be sought in the case of unqualified persons.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u227	In the first term, the concept of "field standard" was discussed, in which the field was defined rather narrowly as "the professionals in the field." As a result of this second period, I fully understand that the concept of quality standards is intended to involve not only the professional field, the doctors, but also other parties. I think that would be a good idea, Mr President. Mr President, that brings me to the end of the second-term answer to the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u228	Thank you. Mrs. Martens, one question, given the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u229	I have just received the following question from our state lawyer in my group. If the General Measure of Management is re-assigned, it would actually mean a repair law, because you actually want to have a re-adoption over and over again. Is the Minister prepared to do so? And another question was whether there is a delegation basis for the General Measure of Governance in order to be able to strike it at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u230	Oh, Mr. Chairman. My professor of administrative law is here in the room, but he didn't teach me that well 30 years ago. The anchoring of the AMvB I agree. I would ask the other question...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u231	I do not want you to keep writing letters, but perhaps you can record the answer in writing and then send it to the Chamber before noon on Friday. Is that all right with you, Mrs. Martens? Because it's important to know what's going on. I see Mrs Martens agrees. Also with the basis of delegation. You mentioned those two points. But I think the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u232	I'd like to know myself. If you'd like to give me the opportunity to write a letter, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u233	Mr. De Grave, one question, too, given the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u234	Very briefly and perhaps it can also be written. 'Cause the question hit me, too. In my case, it was not a legal expert, but an expert on the Kingdom. He asked whether the current Donor Law applies to the Kingdom and whether, if the initiative law is adopted, it also applies to the Kingdom. The question may be answered in writing; I do not have the knowledge ready either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u235	I can also answer that: the initiative proposal is not before us as the Rijkswet. But it is for the BES Islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u236	Mr President, thank you for that answer. Then the letter doesn't have to be about that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u237	I'm here to deal with the bill. Mind if I ask the cameras if they still want to go back? A roll-call vote has already been requested on the legislative proposal. I therefore propose to vote on the legislative proposal jointly and severally next week, and I also propose to vote on the motion next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u238	I have missed an opinion on the motion in the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u239	Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u240	I will repeat the Minister's words, while the Keeper of Chambers puts the machine down: the Minister has said that he will leave the motion to judge Chamber. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u241	I can't argue with that anymore. Judgement Chamber, Chairman. Now it's loud and clear. Now we can get rid of the box.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-06-eerstekamer-4.u242	That's the table cathedral. However, I have already said that I propose that next week we vote jointly and severally on the legislative proposal and motion tabled. I'm suspending the meeting for a single minute, pending the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
