ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u1	The next item is the debate on the revision of Dutch airspace. The Secretary of State for Defence has also been appointed. I would also like to welcome him. I understand that there are a lot of people in the public gallery who are involved in this debate. It is customary that you do not in any way express your disapproval or approval during the debate. I just heard you all coughing massively, but that's not allowed either. But welcome. I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union wants an aviation that serves society and the economy. The time for unbridled, unfocused and autonomous growth of aviation is really over. Nor do we need any more holiday flights and prize fighters. It's okay to fly a little less. The train is a great alternative within Europe. "Flight Shame" was in the Van Dale top 18 Word of the Year. That's quite a special development. This is, I think, partly due to the actions and efforts of the people sitting here in the public gallery. As far as Lelystad is concerned, the Christian Union insists on the three conditions that have been agreed: all human and environmental calculations must be correct, there must be more clarity about the fact that those low-flight routes would be gone by 2023, and Lelystad should be given the function of landing airport. So planes must be able to be moved from Schiphol and Lelystad is not meant for autonomous growth. There are growth plans for Rotterdam. Eindhoven Airport has grown densely with holiday traffic without Schiphol being relieved. In the coming years, the choice of whether or not to grow again lies. Schiphol is also ready for the next growth spurt. And Friday evening we received a letter from the Minister in which you can read that she also wants to open Lelystad to new entrants, to autonomous growth. This is not in line with the agreement and it is not in line with the objective for which Lelystad would be opened up. I read in the newspaper a day later that the minister doesn't want to let go of Lelystad's purpose. My question to the Minister is: what is it? Mr. Chairman. On 3 July last, the Minister wrote to the Chamber: "Because Lelystad Airport has this nature of overflow, there will be no autonomous growth of trade at this airport." In a debate earlier this year, the Minister referred to the traffic distribution rule as "an essential part to enable Lelystad Airport to play the role for which the airport is intended." The Minister has always been very clear about freight traffic: no cargo. Can the Minister today, in line with her statements in July, repeat the clear objective of Lelystad Airport: no autonomous growth, only relocation of flights, only traffic that contributes to the hub operation at Schiphol Airport and certainly not freight traffic? Mr. Chairman. The reclassification of airspace. The Minister lays down the ceiling of 10,000 flight movements in an AMvB, for as long as the airspace has not been revised. At the same time, the Minister points out that the airspace review is not a single moment in time and is never finished. It's a continuous process. But what if the low-fly routes are not gone after 2023, but thanks to the first improvements to the airspace layout, more than 10,000 flight movements can already be fitted? Can the Minister rule out such a situation and, if not, what is the plan in that situation? What is the precise feature in which the Minister says: yes, now it is allowed to grow? Until when is the AMvB valid and how is the AMvB maintained?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u3	I would like to ask Mr Bruins a question about his first piece, about the three conditions for Lelystad. I hear Mr Bruins say above all: no autonomous growth in Lelystad. That is what we are united in. I would like to ask Mr Bruins whether he could agree to a small percentage of autonomous growth or whether the Christian Union would hold on to 100% overflow and no autonomous growth in Lelystad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u4	We hold on to the goal of Lelystad, as it is intended as a landing airport for Schiphol. That means: no autonomous growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u5	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u6	In the technical briefing, LVNL confirmed that the B+ routes are currently the best choice, but that everything is possible after airspace review. That is good news for the people in Wezep, above whose head all traffic in Lelystad will be pushed through a funnel. In the new situation, the B+ routes are not the best choice in advance. Can the Minister confirm this? I ask the Secretary of State for Defence if she would like to cooperate in investigating or flying out via the IJsselmeer and perhaps the Wadden Sea would be an opportunity and whether, in conjunction with "civil', the Defense would also like to investigate this possibility after an airspace review. Mr. Chairman. I also have a motion, together with Mr Paternotte, on bottlenecks in the routes to and from Lelystad Airport. These bottlenecks lie in particular with Wezep, Zwolle Stadshagen and the Vechtdal. Does the Minister take on board as a condition that an acceptable solution should be found for these areas in the context of airspace review? Mr. Chairman. There are still many questions about the experience flight. There will also be a separate debate on this, but it is mainly about the difference between measuring and calculating. At all measuring points, higher peak values were measured than expected. According to the Minister, the measured peak sound, LAmax, cannot simply be compared to the annual average of the noise load, Lden. I get that, but the peak sound is the input for calculating the Lden, right? Isn't that what the mathematical relationship is about? Can the Minister answer that? I also read that the model used must comply with certain European rules. Can the Minister confirm that the model used complies with those rules? And is the message also correct that the input for the model is based on the sound data of aircraft manufacturers themselves? Is there also an independent calibration at the basis of the model? Further questions will be asked in the debate on the flight of experience. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few words about Schiphol. Also there is: care above speed. This applies not only to Lelystad, but also to Schiphol in the Christian Union. A net process is needed so that the trust of local residents can be regained there as well. Safety comes first. Legal certainty will then have to be created for residents through a sound airport traffic decision with support. Standards will then be drawn up and then it will have to be made clear how these standards will be enforced. Then a net process is needed in the run-up to the Aviation Note, which the Minister is going to issue. That note should clarify issues such as safety, ultra-fine dust, CO, sustainability and other modes of transport. Then we can talk about the issue of growth or no growth. Does the Minister see in this the same order of things as the Christian Union? Mr President, that was my contribution in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u7	Thanks to Mr Bruins for his clarity: no autonomous growth at Lelystad Airport is a hard prerequisite for the Christian Union. Does the Christian Union agree with me that sending the airport traffic decision on Friday is premature and that this airport traffic decision should not now be put further "in process" and should be withdrawn?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u8	No, I disagree. The airport traffic decision is part of the process and is now being submitted for consultation. I don't have much trouble with that. I was surprised by the second letter, which also came Friday night. That letter is about the traffic distribution rule to be notified, but the airport traffic decision is the process that is going on. It was decided by the Council of Ministers. I'm on this side of the dividing line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u9	Second question, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u10	But if there is no legal guarantee by means of a traffic distribution rule, then surely there can be no airport decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u11	The airport traffic decision is now laid down for the submission of views. I think all the pluses and minuses in that procedure will come to light. And to everything that comes up, a good answer has to come from the Ministry. I am confident that this procedure will bring out everything that is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u12	I have two questions for Mr Bruins. I didn't hear a climate condition in the three conditions. I just wanted to see that confirmed. My second question is this. No autonomous growth. It is a precondition from Europe that there is a level playing field. That would mean that there must be autonomous growth. Otherwise, no VVR. Does this mean that the Christian Union says: then Lelystad but not open? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u13	The condition of no autonomous growth has been stated for 15 months, since that famous debate of 28 September last year, in which then Secretary of State Dijksma told us that everything had been legally viewed and that this was going to work. We'll hold on to that. Fortunately, we have a very clever minister with a very clever staff. They will continue the homework to see how we can give Lelystad airport the purpose for which it is intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u14	That's a nice way not to answer. The question is: if it is not possible to have autonomous growth, does that mean "no Lelystad" for the Christian Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u15	We did the Minister's homework. She's not done with that yet. I'm assuming she'll find a good solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u16	Third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u17	No, because an earlier question was asked, namely whether it is a fair observation that there are no climate requirements between the three conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u18	The climate requirements were in my first rules when I said: we don't need any more vacation flights and prize fighters, we have to fly less and the train is a good alternative. It is quite clear, as I say straight to Mr Van Raan, that if the growth of aviation continues as projected, it will be completely out of control with regard to the climate objectives. This week we're talking about a climate agreement. Tomorrow night I will be in this same room talking about the Climate Law. And today we're talking about aviation. Then we know something has to happen, because it doesn't fit in the same shoe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u19	I can only endorse the conditions that Mr Bruins endorses for Lelystad Airport. He also said that it is good in itself that the airport traffic decision should be consulted. But would it not also be wise if we in the House of Representatives were to say: we are parking that airport traffic decision for a moment and are not going to deal with it for the time being, as long as there is not first European approval from Brussels for selectivity policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u20	In any case, it is very important that, before decision-making on the opening of Lelystad can take place, all matters are brought together. This concerns the airport decision and the input to it. But it is also, of course, about how the Brussels traffic distribution rule continues. And what clarity are we getting tonight about extending the aircraft and about the pace of the airspace review? All these things need to be put in order and put next to each other before we can talk about decision-making about the opening of Lelystad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u21	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u22	Mr. Chairman. The emergency meeting on the climate agreement, which was called "cockpit consultation," was convened in plenary session. But if the climate agreement is presented next Friday, concrete measures for aviation will shine through absence, just like last week at the climate summit and as in the Climate Act, which we will discuss tomorrow. The climate summit in Katowice wasn't over yet, or the minister even promptly threw a plan over the fence to allow independent growth at Lelystad Airport, "in search of balance." It is as climate worker Greta Thunberg said: you are only talking about moving forward with the same bad ideas that have got us into this situation, while it would be the only sensible thing to pull the emergency brake. Doesn't the Minister feel addressed by Thunberg? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The aviation sector has a persistent credibility problem and it is now in danger of spilling over to the minister himself. How is it possible for the sector to be allowed to contribute to answering parliamentary questions and letters and one-liners? How are we supposed to know if what we read comes from the Minister or from the aviation sector? We don't see the difference anymore. How is the Minister going to remove the doubt that has now been attached to her letters and answers? The letter we received this morning just before the debate, thank you for that, unfortunately, did not reassure us. It didn't take away our concerns. I would like the Chamber to receive a complete overview of all the changes and suggestions made by the sector. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Let us, for example, look at the progress report on the 14 December airspace review. It states that the principles of participation are transparency, care and a follow-up process. It's on page 6/11. The Minister failed to do so, all three of them. The Dutch aviation policy is not transparent, since it is not clear who writes the Minister's letters. The Chamber sometimes receives letters of air only during the debate in which the letters have to be discussed. The Dutch aviation policy is not careful either. Environmental studies contain errors and record blank fields under the heading "environment" or "p.m." So what's the m of the E.R. actually worth? The Dutch aviation policy is also not followable. After a slap on the wrist from Europe about Lelystad Airport, the Minister does not make a pass on the spot, but, contrary to previous agreements and promises, tries to overstep with an independent growth on Lelystad. Mr President, reclassification and participation. Under the flag of the so-called aviation talks, participants were asked to speak of false contradictions and residents of different regions were played against each other. In the meantime, CDA and VVD are trying to convince us that we have to trust that in 2023, really, the low-flying routes will come to an end. The fact that the principles of participation have not been respected has also been noticed in various population groups. The Collaborative Action Groups against Laagvliegen, from North, East, Central and West Netherlands have put their facts on paper. I would like to offer this through the Registry to the rest of the Members of Parliament, partly on behalf of the residents' groups, but also on behalf of Mrs Kröger, Mr Laçin, Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Van Brenk. I'm requesting that that be included in the documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u23	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u24	Because, Mr President, the stage of gullibility has of course been over for a while. There are too many strange twists and promises and too many errors in aviation reports, and there is too much at the expense of pushing through the sector's interests. The airspace review is not completed until 2023. That is, of course, a reason why we should only be in the place, for safety, which is a priority for all parties. The OVV report on flight safety at Schiphol Airport was clear about it. I'd like a response. We're considering a motion on that point. But there's another line. That is precisely the limit that the emergency brake requires. Because while the IPCC report warns that the world needs far-reaching measures to limit global warming to 1.5°C, this minister is trying to push independent growth of Lelystad Airport through so that Schiphol can also grow. The objective of the airspace review, directly against the 1.5°C target, is still to increase capacity. This cannot be explained to the inhabitants and to us, but it cannot be explained to future generations. How is the Minister going to make the 1.5°C target the starting point for further choices in the airspace review? We've just tabled a motion on that. This does not mean that the aviation industry itself is responsible for this 1.5°C restriction, but that the considerations that the aviation sector is going to make are taken into account, which is 1.5°C. That was also the thrust of the motion. That seems to us to be the starting point for the inventory of interests that the Minister wrote to us about. As long as that's not the starting point, Lelystad Airport can't open at all. I'd like a response. So we're considering another motion on this point. By the way, we have already submitted it. Mr President, concluding. The aviation sector is facing the future with its back to society. It will not have escaped the attention of the Minister on the National Aviation Day that this hautaine growth doctrine has now led to great social discontent. The way in which the current Dutch aviation policy is organised is not 1.5°C-proof. The intrinsic growth thinking is in the sector and that is in the way of policy makers. Climate, living environment and safety should form the triangle within which choices are made, but all three of them fall short. The 1.5°C target is nowhere intertwined, noise pollution is calculated down instead of measured and pilots and OVV say safety is at stake. Therefore: business as usual where the sector dictates, can no longer. Aviation will shrink and Lelystad Airport can remain closed. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u25	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. I now give the floor to Mr Remco Dijkstra on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u26	Mr. Chairman. Flying must be safe and you need rules of the game. As aviation has grown considerably since the 1950s and the 1980s, the sustainability of the current airspace is now being brought to an end, or at least a limit. This is why a broad plan of action has been drawn up with a large number of stakeholders involved. No matter how you feel about aviation, whether you're in favour of it or against it, the reclassification of airspace is always a good idea. It is necessary because of the future and the introduction of new aircraft that are going to fly in a different way, such as drones. Maybe more efficient departure and approach routes are possible. And there is of course the opening of Lelystad Airport. Safety always comes first. What is also important in this type of airspace reclassification is international cooperation with our neighbouring countries. It deserves a lot of attention, because it is not an easy project. That is why I am asking the Minister what the contacts with Belgium, Germany, Denmark and the United Kingdom produce. Do they support our need? What does it mean for the routes that cross the border? I read in the documents that there has been talk of an approach and planning, which has been explained what we want and that an agreement has been made for a follow-up. But at what moments can we take steps? How can we be informed about this? The VVD wants to give the specialists of the Air Traffic Control Netherlands the maximum space and freedom to come up with good solutions. I have faith in that. Because it is becoming increasingly crowded in our airspace, the proper integration into our airspace is really necessary. For the VVD it is important that the principles such as safety, as well as the rapid passage and descent in efficient gliding flights are sufficiently secured. That's how you reduce interference. This applies not only to Schiphol Airport, but also to all regional airports. Of course, there must be sufficient room for small aviation and military traffic. When it comes to military traffic, is it true that Defense intends to use De Peel as a military air base again, for example? What does this mean for the airspace review? What does the increasing use of unmanned systems mean? I saw beautiful pictures of such a Raptor. What does it mean if we're going to fly with them and drones and stuff? What does the arrival of the F-35 for Defence, the need for airspace and the revision of airspace mean? I think they need more space, so is there enough room for them? How does the DOD guarantee that there is enough room to carry out the constitutional tasks? Is the space for further development taken into account, even if the number of devices increases? Does the plans for wind at sea leave enough room for the Navy and the Air Force to practice above and in the North Sea? As far as we are concerned, the protection of our territory and the space to practice are above windmills. I can't imagine that we're going to zigzag with the F-35 through a windmill park, for example. Mr. Chairman. I understand the people who object to the growth of aviation. I get that. So I am also trying to find the best possible balance between, on the one hand, as little nuisance as possible and, on the other hand, to provide sufficient opportunities for further development, in whatever form. But we can't stop, because it's important to keep in touch with the rest of the world. We do this mainly through Schiphol and the 326 connections. We do this not only because of the connections, but also because of the importance of everyone who is dependent on aviation activities for their jobs. Think of the customs workers, the people who work with the luggage tyres, the stewardesses, the catering, the shopkeepers, the staff on the platform and in the maintenance and you name them. I've heard neighbors complain lately that planes are rather low over places such as Oegstgeest or Alkmaar fly there they come into our country while the distance to Schiphol is still quite large. Are air traffic controllers choosing such a simple solution because of fragmentation or reduction of the workload? Does that have to do with a possible shortage of air traffic controllers? Can the Minister explain this? How's that? It is precisely because of the ambitions with the reclassification of airspace and the opening of Lelystad Airport that it is important that we have sufficient air traffic controllers. Do we have any of those in a minute? Is that enough? Is that enough? Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to Lelystad. It is no secret that the VVD is for an early opening of Lelystad Airport. Leaving the airport unused until the reclassification, until the time comes, would cause serious damage to our economy, not only to Flevoland itself, but precisely because of the lock at Schiphol Airport that we have. That connection with Schiphol is very clear to us. It is in the interest of the Netherlands that holiday flights can be moved from Schiphol Airport to Lelystad. This creates extra space for intercontinental traffic, traffic that we all want and which our country has so much more to wear than yet another holiday flight. Mr. Chairman. It is also clear that there will be no freight traffic at Lelystad Airport. The number of flight movements up to the reclassification of airspace is also limited. Both are also neatly recorded. That's good. The VVD can agree, but always in combination with an early opening. Flevoland has also been waiting for the opening of Lelystad Airport since 2015. This economic impetus in the region is welcome. Finally. Air traffic control indicates that improvements are more likely to reduce noise pollution on routes to Lelystad if possible. That cheers the VVD, of course! The VVD wants the flight routes higher as soon as possible. Does the Minister share our opinion? Above all, what can the Minister say about this in the direction of the people who have questions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u27	I just heard Mr Dijkstra say that Lelystad's value lies in particular in the slots at Schiphol Airport, where economically high-quality mainport traffic can come. What does Mr Dijkstra think of the letter that came Friday evening? In that, the Minister seems to say that we are releasing that target for Lelystad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u28	There are three conditions to which the opening of Lelystad is related. Firstly, that is the environmental impact assessment. We checked it off. It complies with the law. The second is an arrangement, a traffic distribution scheme, to ensure that you actually have that landing. This goal is still the primary objective of the VVD, namely to create space for intercontinental traffic from Schiphol. The third is the airport decision that was taken in the MR and which we find again at the end of the journey. What matters is that you want something. You want to move flights, but you have to have an instrument for that. When I look back at the pieces, there is talk of selectivity policy every time. You can be selective on who you allow. Actually, that is not quite the case, because there is not yet. That's what we need to develop. Europe has that instrument. If Europe says that it can't do as we last submitted last July, I thought it was a good arrangement, but they don't agree with that, so we have to find something that works. Europe, the lawyers there, must indicate what can be done. If it doesn't work out exactly how you want it to, you need to see how you can do it. That is our position. Because not opening Lelystad is not an option as far as we're concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u29	Mr President, if it is not wise, I would ask Mr Dijkstra, through you, to develop it properly first and then to open Lelystad. Because there's only one way to do this process carefully, and that's in the right order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u30	We'll do all three steps at the same time. We'll make a final decision at the end. All three are on parole. A traffic distribution system is very important. We've just had a tap on the nose. The Minister's move is to talk in Brussels to see what you can get out of it. I'm not dogmatic in that. In the past, we politicians have all made demands, but if they are not realistic, you have to look at how you are going to solve that problem. I'm in the Chamber trying to solve problems. This also means that I do not hold on to 100% autonomous growth. If there is a mix that is realistic and does justice to the goal we have with each other, namely to relieve the burden on Schiphol and at the same time perhaps give the room for new entrants from the point of view of competition, we are certainly open to that. The alternative, the failure to open Lelystad and its direct damage to our country because of Schiphol Airport, is much greater. We have to realize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u31	Mr Dijkstra pointed out that it was good for the economy that Lelystad opened as soon as possible. That may be so, that is an assumption, but my question is: I think it is very bad for the people who live on the Veluwe and for the quality of life; how do you feel about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u32	I have said that it is always a balance between the benefits and the burdens of flying. The Veluwe is beautiful, that's what planes are getting past. I'm looking at the growth path that we're using with the current routes, and then we're talking about 3 km or 2 km altitude above the old country and the numbers involved: 4 per day, rising to 25. If you compare that to Schiphol Airport, which now has 350 planes at 350 meters, in some places, then I understand that people are against it and that they have concerns. That is why I say: let's go as fast as possible, but let's see it in perspective and realize that a lot of people like to fly. Because of the hub function and the international character of Schiphol, which we would like to monitor, plus all the jobs involved, we need to find the right balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u33	Yes, that's wonderful, but you're actually saying that you're choosing economics over livingability for those people on the Veluwe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u34	It's not one thing or the other. The Veluwe remains beautiful, even if four planes a day fly over it. In a moment, more will go over, but at a higher height, and that's what we want to do with each other. We give people the choice where and how they go on holiday and we see the economic importance of aviation in a broader perspective. I always say we didn't come up with Lelystad because we love having an airport in the polder, but it's really the sixth or seventh or seventh orbit of Schiphol. That's how you see it. That's where the vacation flights have to go. This is ideal for the holidaymaker; he can park cheaply and within four hours from his house he is on the beach, because you no longer have to go through Schiphol. At Schiphol Airport we get what we want with each other, namely that all those companies from Taiwan, Hong Kong, China, India have their headquarters in Hoofddorp or Amstelveen. That's what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u35	I conclude: if you go out with the VVD and you live on the Veluwe, you just have to buy earplugs, otherwise you can't live with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u36	Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u37	I hear Mr Dijkstra say that it would be a huge economic disappointment if Lelystad Airport did not open, but I would like to fight that. All those holiday flights that will soon have to go from Lelystad to the south of Europe have little value for our Dutch economy. There are several studies that show that, for example, at the Veluwe, which Mr Stoffer mentioned, a lot of jobs are also lost. That is to combat what Mr Dijkstra said. What I want to go to is the whole process we're talking about right now. Ten years ago, we started a game where the rules of the game were clear. Lelystad should become an airport of Schiphol.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u38	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u39	The Minister has been saying since last Friday that we can't, so we're gonna let that go. Does the VVD think it is fair to all those people who live on the Veluwe, in Overijssel and in Gelderland, that after ten years, while the race has already started, we are going to change the rules of the game and actually hit all those people in the face with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u40	I would like to add my voice to the first point raised by Mr Laçin. I told you, we don't do Lelystad because we like an airport in the polder so much. We do that for the reinforcement of Schiphol and the hub function. I have seen reports, and so have you, which state that if we did not have the hub function at Schiphol Airport, that means 40% less destinations and 50% less jobs. In total, there are 300,000 jobs in the aviation sector in the Netherlands, directly and indirectly. I'd like to see the SP again when we see the first firing requests at Cargo, because you don't leave room for that. I see the SP on the barricade again, because it is all wrong, but at the same time you are responsible for a lock on aviation. The point is that you are looking for a balance, where you say that holiday traffic can be excellent from a small airport like Lelystad. We do this in stages, carefully and neatly, and at the same time we need to strengthen the hub function. That's the total picture we need to sketch here. It's also about jobs and choices that people can make themselves, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u41	Yeah, I'm definitely on the side of people who get fired, right at Schiphol, because of the policy the VVD has pursued in recent years. There has been no control or selectivity at Schiphol Airport, although it has been at the helm for years. The fact that all these people are now being dismissed is not because of the SP policy, but precisely because of the VVD policy of Mr Dijkstra and his party. But I would like to go back to the second question, because Mr Dijkstra is very clever about it. Does Mr Dijkstra think it is fair to all those people who are sitting in the gallery and watching at home? They have put hundreds of thousands of signatures under petitions and that they are being told by this minister that we are letting go of the agreements we have made in one stone because the European Commission does not give us permission and we are going our own way now? Does Mr Dijkstra think that this gives political credibility to those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u42	This is a misconception, because we are not letting go of the agreements. The agreements are very clear: Lelystad is an overflow airport of Schiphol. Europe has now said that you cannot do it 100%. I'll be realistic enough to see what I can do. I hope as much as possible, because we have just talked about the main objective: the landing is central. However, we note with each other that the selectivity policy, which has been discussed for ten years, does not in fact yet exist. We have to work together to get that done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u43	I will conclude, like Mr Stoffer, that Mr Dijkstra does not know the agreements of the last ten years or here pretends not to know them. The deal was: 100% landing from Schiphol. We're gonna let that go now. That's what the SP strongly opposes. Mr Dijkstra is not, so he lets go of the agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u44	No. I know the arrangements. I'm not letting them go. I'm still aiming for it. But I'm a realist. I'm looking for solutions here. You're just standing on the sidelines yelling and screaming. As soon as you're fired, you'll come to the barricade with a banner. You make flying more expensive, so Jan with the hat will pay a few extra tens when he flies to his holiday destination. That's just reality. Easy for you to say on the sidelines. I'm in a party that takes responsibility and seeks solutions. That sometimes means making difficult decisions, Mr. Laçin. That's part of it. But we're in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u45	I would like to begin with a point of order. Mr Laçin is here on behalf of his party and has certain views on it. So does Mr Dijkstra. It does not suit him to put Mr Laçin away like this. It doesn't add up and it's just really wrong politics. I would advise him to withdraw that. The debate may be strong, but let's not have it like that. As far as I'm concerned, that's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u46	That is the point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u47	This is a special debate. Normally, we have a debate with the Minister and the Secretary of State, as we do today, and you have the opposition and the coalition. But now it is about growth and about Lelystad and I also see division in the coalition. I especially ask the VVD: how reliable is the VVD? I heard Mr Dijkstra cry out a few months ago: Schiphol can grow. I think he was talking about 550,000 flight movements. That wasn't in the coalition agreement. Now I hear Mr Dijkstra of the VVD say: there can be autonomous growth in Lelystad, because if Brussels says so, we have to do it. How reliable is the VVD in this coalition?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u48	We are going to talk about Schiphol, because there will be a separate debate about this. That is what we are doing at the moment when the Schiphol Environment Council, in which the local and regional directors, the local residents and the airlines are making a deal; hopefully soon. The three parties in the environmental council are also waiting for the opening of Lelystad Airport; make no mistake. The moment Lelystad Airport doesn't open, we have a problem at Schiphol Airport. We have to realize that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u49	Lelystad has everything to do with Schiphol, because it is the landing of Schiphol, as it was once intended. But now Brussels says: how the Netherlands, this coalition and this cabinet want it, it is not going to happen; there will still have to be autonomous growth. I hear here that D66, the Christian Union and probably the CDA will be critical of that and will say: it does not work that way. But what's the VVD like? Can air transport via Lelystad grow autonomously even if it is only a little, as I heard in a sub-section from Mr Dijkstra, or does the VVD also adhere to the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u50	The coalition agreement clearly states that Eindhoven and Lelystad are holiday airports and that we want a strong hub with a strong home carrier at Schiphol Airport. That's what the coalition agreement says. The traffic distribution regulation would not be passed, so the Minister withdrew it. We need to work on a new one now. We have a few days for that. As far as I'm concerned, it's going fast and fast. This will ensure that we do as much justice as possible to the idea that we have behind Lelystad, namely of a landing airport. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u51	Let's talk about the arrangements. In agreements from 2008, Lelystad was designated as an airport location. These agreements were also made with the region around Flevoland, with Overijssel and Gelderland. They have also been told that it is a transfer airport. Now you say that even with autonomous growth those agreements would not be violated; you have to have a good mix. I imagine you'd think of a little bit of autonomous growth and a lot of overflow. But would 75% autonomous growth and only a quarter overflow still be in line with these agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u52	I'm not gonna speculate on numbers here. We don't do that with Schiphol, because we are waiting for the results. I'm not doing that here. It is really up to the Minister to see if she can come home with a good deal from Brussels that does justice to what we want with each other. That's the point. You also refer to the 2008 Alders Agreement. I would remind you that the Alders agreement is one and indivisible. The Alders agreement of October 2008 is based on 580,000 flight movements and later it has been reduced to 570,000 flight movements by 2020. We don't have one right now, not at Eindhoven and not at Schiphol. That is why we also need Lelystad because there is a need. People want to fly and at the same time we want to strengthen the hub function of Schiphol. That is why we need to work on a thorough opening of Lelystad Airport and, as far as we are concerned, as soon as possible, so that we can achieve all these goals with each other. So I am not going to speculate on exactly what numbers, because it is really up to the Minister to make a good deal, and I think she will soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u53	The Alders agreement is one and indivisible argument, which Mr Dijkstra used earlier to say that 90,000 flights had to be added at Schiphol Airport as soon as possible. These agreements were made with residents around Schiphol, but also with residents in the region, on the Veluwe. As far as you're concerned, what can those residents on the Veluwe do about the fact that Lelystad hasn't been opened so far? What do you blame them for? Because that was your reason to make Schiphol grow faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u54	No, you misunderstand me. I don't blame the residents of the Veluwe at all. Of course not. Why would I do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u55	So it's a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u56	Okay. If you do not, then my question is why you do not want to fully respect the agreements that exist with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u57	That's very clear. I remember being in the States in 2012, and one of the first files I got was about flying over the old country. That's when the deal was made that 2 km is the minimum altitude and I think it's still there. There was no noise back then. That came only when it became clear in 2017 under the previous Secretary of State that you had to fly at a lower altitude for a long time. Well, we find all kinds of things and we don't want to do that with each other, but we do see the need because we don't want to interfere with Schiphol, which is also a wish of the Chamber. This debate is about how we get that airspace so that this is no longer necessary, you are off those low-flying routes, you can efficiently divide the aviation in the Netherlands with a holiday airport and a hub airport and you can go up as quickly as possible and go down nicely in a glide flight. That's what we want to do with each other, and that's what I'm aiming for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u58	I find it really bizarre to hear Mr Dijkstra talk about things having to be done neatly and that agreements have to be kept, but he really does wipe out the hard edge of no autonomous growth here. Is Mr Dijkstra saying that the Christian Union, D66 and the CDA, all of which have declared that they do not want autonomous growth at Lelystad Airport as a very harsh condition, are wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u59	No, everyone's talking about their own words, which will also turn out to be tonight. We are in favour of opening Lelystad Airport. We have seen that the traffic distribution regime we had devised does not last in Europe. Europe does have that instrument, so they should tell us how to do it. We have ideas about it, too. We want to be a landing airport, and that is what this is about. It's not about sticking to things from the past when they're no longer realistic; then you have to move on and look at solutions. And that's what I'm trying to do. Our position is very clear, and we are not turning into that either. We've been very clear from moment one. We see the importance and I want to cherish it. I want us to take steps with this Chamber and have broad support for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u60	The interesting thing is that the traffic distribution rule is of course an instrument, while the goal is not autonomous growth on Lelystad. The fact that Mr Dijkstra says that the traffic distribution rule needs to be changed and that he wants to give it to the Minister, I understand. Only the question is this: does Mr Dijkstra set the goal, namely not to grow autonomously at Lelystad Airport, then actually go to the garbage can?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u61	No, the goal is to turn Lelystad Airport into a holiday airport. That's what we have to strive for together. You can indeed use the instrument traffic distribution rule for that. However, I am also looking at the number of slots that have already been requested at Schiphol Airport, namely 52,000 more than there are to offer. I also mention the spirit of a number of airlines. Of course they sell their skin expensive but I think if this is the only way to grow, they'll go to Lelystad. As far as I am concerned, therefore, market forces are also a very good option. Then you say: selectivity policy does not exist, the emperor has no clothes on and let's see what the market is doing and let's make sure that those slots at Schiphol Airport are filled by intercontinental traffic. I think those are also options that we should be open to. But with just closing the door and saying "yes, that's it," you don't have a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u62	I commend Mr Dijkstra for his clarity. He says, "Lelystad open. And if that means a little autonomous growth: so be it, but at least we tried." That clarity is commendable. He began his speech by saying that safety is paramount. He quoted in the 1950s and 1980s. His Prime Minister recently, on Sunday or on that occasion, stated on CNN that there is actually a new kind of security. That's climate security. Does Mr Dijkstra, following his Prime Minister's example, see another possibility or alternative where climate safety is going to play such a big role that we may have to conclude that aviation needs to go back in size, so that Lelystad may not have to open at all? Or is that a completely irrefutable path for Mr Dijkstra at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u63	We've shared that before, and we're different in that. I believe that sustainable growth in aviation can be achieved. We also see aviation taking steps. You say that's not enough. But I treasure that. I'm positive. We see that the train becomes a replacement for short distances. I think we're going to fly less soon in Paris, because there's an alternative. There's another way to do that by train. And the beauty of this airspace reclassification is that sustainability is the third goal. This simply means shorter routes, less emissions of substances, less emissions of CO. It's a very important goal. It's just written down on what this debate is about tonight. It's about expanding civilian and military capabilities because of demand. It's about more efficient use; of course. But it's also about sustainability. It has been mentioned explicitly, so I would say: squeeze your hands, use that and cherish all the steps that the sector is taking. And then we can discuss whether it is enough or not, but we do so in other debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u64	If I squeeze my hands, the microphone opens, so that's convenient! Again, that's good to know, because we're about to have another debate on figures: what did this mean, what does the Climate Act mean, and what does the climate agreement mean? Then Mr Dijkstra is standing here again and then we have another rational debate. And then we're wondering what's coming out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u65	Good. So that was an announcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u66	Finally. In my opinion, Schiphol is always number one in terms of the most sustainable airports in the world, and in my opinion the KLM has been in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for 12 years. That's not for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u67	Thank you, Mr. Remco Dijkstra. I now give the floor to Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u68	Mr. Chairman. Trust. Almost every aviation debate begins with this. Trust that this minister really serves the public interest. And that trust got dented again. KLM and Schiphol contributed to Kamerletters and provided the Minister with one-liners for her debates in the Chamber. We can do a bingo with the people in the public gallery: what statement do we attribute to Schiphol, and which one to the KLM? In the meantime, all signals for Lelystad are on red: the measurements on the experience flight have shown that the sound for the MER is far too low, there is no certainty whether there will ever be a real end to the low flight routes and since Friday the Minister wants to allow autonomous growth at Lelystad Airport. That's against all the arrangements. "Lelystad Airport is in a coma," headlined a newspaper yesterday. Let's end that quickly by pulling the plug. A new holiday airport for 45,000 extra flights is unnecessary, nonsense and irresponsible. I personally find it unbelievable for a minister who talks so glowingly about the terrible consequences of climate change, but who drives CO emissions from aviation. And that is a shame, because I do believe that her involvement in climate adaptation is genuine. The Minister keeps saying that cargo is not going to be flown at Lelystad, but refuses to include this in the LVB. And now the Spanish media are writing about Lelystad Airport as the airport from which Zara will be transporting goods by air. Once again, trust. Trust, trust, trust. Take care of this now. The Minister conjures up the end of the low flight routes after the reclassification, but all of her answers to all of our questions remain vague. What is "climb as much as possible"? And what does it really mean to the people in Klarenbeek and Nijbroek? What is the definition of "low-flying routes" used? She's refusing to make it clear. Schiphol traffic will remain a priority in the coming years and Lelystad traffic will always have to fall below it. What does this do with the security risks? The OVV report sees interference with other airports as a risk. We would very much like the Minister on the low-fly routes of Lelystad Airport to ask the OVV for advice. Then there is the reclassification of airspace, the real reason for this debate. The reclassification of airspace is a balancing of interests. That became clear to us in the hearings we had. For some municipalities it may get better, for some worse, but who makes that assessment and on what criteria? Why do we not do a airspace reclassification plan, whereby an alternative weighting can take place on the basis of objective criteria? It is now also clear that the B+ route may be changed after 2023. Then what is the whole E.R. based on? How well does it paint a picture of the final situation? That is a criticism that the inhabitants and also GroenLinks have long had. Then there's the discussion about the experience flight. The calculations are structurally lower than the measurements. The Minister promises that the models will be validated by measurements in the future. I welcome this commitment, but we cannot now make a decision on the basis of a failing model. If all measurements are higher, as the population survey shows, the average can't be lower statistically. The calculations are also made on the basis of data supplied by the aircraft manufacturers themselves. After the shuffle diesel we now really have the shuffle planes. Can the Minister take seriously the concerns and findings of the residents and ask EASA for a second opinion to at least continue this discussion? We still have no clarity about the PAS and the ruling of the European Court. There are ten nature reserves under the low-fly routes. Is it true that nitrogen emissions from low flying aircraft are not involved in the nitrogen deposition calculations? What shows that there are certainly no significant impacts on Natura 2000 sites due to low-flying routes? Isn't Lelystad Airport just gonna die in front of the European judge? Then the debacle of the VVR. There was a rather interruptive debate with the VVD just now. The Minister wants to respond to Europe by not excluding newcomers. Think, for example, of Wizz Air, a prize fighter flying you to Berlin for a couple of tens. Isn't that exactly the kind of flights this cabinet says we should replace with the train? The goal of Lelystad Airport was always clear: landing of Schiphol Airport. This minister has no mandate from the Chamber to negotiate a traffic distribution rule with autonomous growth at Lelystad Airport. Point, as far as we're concerned. The fact that the Minister sends the airport decision to the Chamber without a legal basis is gossiping and a blow to the face of residents and drivers of the airport. We expect the Minister to withdraw the bill, do her homework first, carefully inform the Chamber of all the steps taken in the negotiations with Brussels and keep us informed. This is also what we asked for before the summer, before this traffic distribution rule went to Brussels. The Minister did not want to do that and, as far as we are concerned, that has to be done now. How else? In my opinion, all this extra homework means that there will be a delay in opening the airport anyway. I would like to hear the Minister's confirmation tonight that this is the case. The Minister said in the AO Aviation that decisions on regional airports should be seen in conjunction as part of the Aviation Note. We think that this is wise, but as far as GroenLinks is concerned, this applies to Schiphol and Lelystad. Watch the spot. First, an Aviation Note, which takes seriously effects on health, both noise and ultra-fine dust, and the climate. Then the reclassification of airspace, so that it is clear how and where is to be flown, and a plan EIA. And then a decision on the future of the airport. GroenLinks' commitment to this is crystal clear: not growth, but control of aviation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u69	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The situation around Schiphol and Lelystad poses dilemmas for society. We want jobs in the Netherlands, we want easy and fast on holiday and at the same time we want to make sure that we can live safely and quietly. For our children, we want a world that is not destroyed by environmental pollution. It is a dilemma between, on the one hand, jobs, economic growth and connection with the rest of the world and, on the other hand, living and living safely, cleanly and quietly. Mr. Chairman. What kind of economic growth do we really want? Is that one that is driven by pure profit, by large companies, with the shadow of a dirty air, a climate that is getting warmer and raw materials that we are running out of? No. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, that can never be the outcome. Sustainable social growth is our starting point, of which everyone in the Netherlands reaps the benefits, in which our children can also grow up healthy and prosperous. Thus, a one-sided agenda for profit, growth and climate pollution is the wrong agenda. In doing so, I also ask the Minister what economic interests prevail when the cabinet talks about 'necessary economic growth'. Mr. Chairman. There is a lot of unrest in the Netherlands about the growth of air traffic. There is great uncertainty among people about increasing nuisance and about past agreements that have not been complied with. We are only doing justice to this uncertainty if politics shows itself to be reliable in making agreements on growth. It doesn't help the past. Let us not make the same mistakes and now make good plans with support for the coming years. That is why this debate and the forthcoming debates on Dutch airspace and aviation are really very important. It is about the future of the Netherlands, about sustainable and social growth, about a sustainable world and, not insignificantly, about confidence in politics. The Dutch airspace is one of the fullest in Europe due to the many flight movements to and from Schiphol. It is therefore very important that people are sure that this air traffic is safe and that the interests of residents, such as noise reduction and particulate emissions, are carefully addressed. Schiphol Airport is a large and international airport. It is planned that Lelystad Airport will take over part of Schiphol passenger traffic. But if Lelystad is going to take over flights, you want to make sure you can live safely and quietly. The Labour Party therefore also agrees with the action groups and the residents of the North and East Netherlands that the airspace must first be in order. There must be clarity about the routes before we can decide on the opening of Lelystad Airport. So no intermediate low flight routes, but first, before the extension of Lelystad airport can be decided in the Chamber, a reclassification of the airspace with less nuisance for residents and clarity about the routes. And, not unimportantly, in line with a motion previously adopted unanimously, residents must be carefully involved. All residents should therefore be given a careful opportunity to discuss and decide, including in the debate on Lelystad, also in the debate on the future of aviation in the Netherlands. The opinion of local residents is very important. We cannot and must not put them next to us. That is why we also believe that airspace should first be in order, there should be less nuisance and there should be clarity about the routes before we can talk about expanding Lelystad airport. We have just had an interruption debate on it, but this means that Lelystad cannot grow autonomously, because Brussels says so. The original agreement was always that Lelystad would be a landing airport for Schiphol Airport. What does the Minister then think is more important: the opinion and attitude of Brussels, and thus independent growth, or the opinion of the Chamber that Lelystad only serves as a landing airport? Military and civilian traffic control are already working together at Schiphol Airport. Will the DOD also fully cooperate in the revision of airspace? Is the DOD really on board? I got through some signals that there's some uncertainty about that. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how Defense is working with IenW. Mr. Chairman. The support for the growth of aviation in the Netherlands is decreasing. The mistrust is growing, and we are also talking about the growth of Schiphol. I know that an agreement is under way on the new arrangements for the coming years. How will the Minister ensure a broad polder agreement when it comes to the growth of Schiphol? Can she give us any insight into that? Finally, the opening of Lelystad. The Minister states that it is complicated from Brussels. Autonomous growth should be allowed somewhat. Is the Minister prepared to wait until we are really sure that Brussels is going to allow us to use Lelystad only as a landing airport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u71	Thank you, Mr. Gijs van Dijk. Mr Amhaouch has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u72	Mr Van Dijk says: why should we listen to Brussels; why do we not define our own line? I can also imagine, because the majority of this Chamber does not want to grow wildly. We do want to steer on hub-bound aviation at Schiphol Airport and thus also on the transfer of aircraft to Lelystad. What would you like to achieve in Brussels? Can you also contribute to this, because we have people in Brussels in order to ensure that we, as a national government, are given the space to steer sustainability, capacity and security? I don't know if we can do that in the short term for this case, but I want us to be able to do that in the long term. We must have the instruments for this, because we obviously do not have them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u73	Even if you read all the documents, you will see that we have given away a great deal of our decision-making to Europe. We would like to arrange things with each other here in the Netherlands. We would also like to regulate such a transfer function, but from Brussels and from Brussels regulations it seems that this is not possible at the moment. Then we will have to change that, otherwise we will never be able to talk about possible sustainable agreements here, about climate and about aviation. That is what we need Europe to do at the moment. But we also need Europe for a change if we want to have more control here; you are right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u74	Let's reflect on this case. How do you view it when Brussels is partly or perhaps completely overwhelmed? Because our commitment is indeed: no autonomous growth in Lelystad. I believe that is the commitment of the PvdA, the CDA and other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u75	Two cases. First of all, we want airspace to be classified as quickly as possible, so that we have clarity about the routes. Then we're gonna talk about that. That's what the Labour Party is gonna look into if we can open up Lelystad when it's really just about the overflow flights, not about autonomous growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u76	Thank you. Mr Amhaouch now has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u77	Thank you, Mr President. A while back I spoke to a young, driven alderman from Aalsmeer, an Aalsmeer. Aalsmeer is known worldwide for its flowers and the largest flower auction in the world. This is of economic importance, provides bread on the shelf for many families and is one of the main tourist attractions of Aalsmeer. The alderman indicated that Schiphol has brought much to Aalsmeer now and in the past. Nevertheless, he expressed his justified concerns about nuisances, particularly due to night flights, and about the dilemma, which includes the limitation of building for the young people of the village. This shows precisely that the issue of aviation cannot be dealt with in black and white terms. There are opportunities, threats and major challenges that lead to dilemmas that we as a society and politics must overcome together. Mr. Chairman. Then back in time, a piece of history. Today, in this debate, the focus is on the revision of airspace. In our view, the review cannot be discussed without going back in time. The current state of affairs has not come out of the sky. In 2008 Alders offered his advice and it was agreed that Schiphol was selectively committed to air traffic that is essential for the mainport/hub Schiphol. The non-mainport flights would be transferred to Lelystad and Eindhoven. Those agreements are an integral part of the 2008 Alders Agreement. That is one and indivisible; that was already coming along. I must also note that the previous cabinet has left a great chaos on this dossier. There's been no unfinished business and far too many things have been pushed forward. The reclassification of airspace should have been given high priority. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the reclassification. Today is an important day. We are discussing the second progress report on airspace reclassification. We're happy about that. This cabinet is working on the urgent need to review the Dutch airspace. The current layout is much like a patchwork that has been adjusted over the years, but which with the insights of today does not fit the needs. The many residents' organisations, the aviation sector and local authorities in the regions of airports throughout the country have been looking forward to this for a long time. It has also become more crowded in the air and the consequences are sometimes noticeable on the ground. We need to make a breakthrough towards the efficient use of Dutch airspace, in which we can achieve our common goals. I am thinking here of improving safety, capacity and sustainability. Mr. Chairman. We read in the Minister's letter that the program team reclassification airspace is also responsible for the routes at Lelystad and that they should be picked up with priority. Which means "priority," I ask the Minister. For example, the crossing of aircraft from Lelystad Airport? Can the Minister confirm this again? In the Minister's letter on the revision of airspace, she also outlines how it is organised, the governance structure. A steering committee will be set up to manage the entire process. I'd like to know exactly who's on that steering committee. We also ask the Minister whether the role clarity and role stability are well secured in the governance structure of the reclassification: no appearance of double hats. The whole operation of the airspace review will have to be done in good consultation with the environment. This requires broad social participation. We welcome the participatory approach proposed by the Minister with an important coordinating role for the provinces. This is also in line with an Amhaouch/Van Dijk motion and will have to lay the foundations for a new design. Open thinking and cooperation where possible strengthens transparency and is crucial. I would ask the Minister if, in advance, the participants in the participation pathway are made clear exactly what their position is. Finally, Mr President. There was a lot of dynamic about the selectivity principle with regard to Lelystad Airport just before and during the weekend. For the sake of clarity, the CDA participates in a regional airport of national interest which has the right to exist as a landing point of Schiphol. The function and necessity as a hub is important to the CDA. That's the main objective. We also welcome the fact that this ensures economic development and employment for Flevoland, but also for the neighbouring provinces of Overijssel and Gelderland. It is therefore not a question of creating an airport for autonomous growth. Cargo flight has never been on the agenda from the beginning. This needs to be properly secured. Can the Minister reflect on this? For the CDA, it is necessary for Brussels to cooperate with a traffic distribution rule. It is essential to make Lelystad truly the promised function of overflow for leisure traffic. How does the Minister get Europe in the right working mode? We were just discussing this briefly in the debate with Mr Van Dijk of the PvdA. We do not want wild growth, but we want sustainable growth and the Netherlands to continue to connect well with the rest of the world. Besides, it makes a living. Brussels should have a listening ear for that. Mr President, the final point is the airport decision. The CDA is committed to taking final decisions only once the approach procedure has been completed, when we know how the Minister has responded to the views expressed and when the opinion has been received from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u78	Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u79	Yes, Mr. Chairman. But the SP asked for an extra minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u80	You made it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u81	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u82	You did make it up. Mr Amhaouch is ready, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u83	Oh! It ended up like this in a question. Anyway, I have a question for the CDA. Isn't an autonomous growth at Lelystad Airport, so no flights that don't leave a lock at Schiphol Airport, a tough edge condition for the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u84	If we just upchunk, sit a little higher, upchunk everything...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u85	What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u86	Come on upstairs for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u87	Mr. Amhaouch, what exactly is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u88	Upchunken is just pulling the mind up so we can get a helicopter view and not start at the bottom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u89	Also for the stenographers!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u90	The aim of Lelystad is that we are indeed looking for solutions for the hub function Schiphol. I just referred to that: 2008. It was once an initiative of the CDA and D66 to move on at Lelystad Airport, and the PvdA was also involved. That is the main objective that we have put in place. We have said this all the time, and that is what Mr Buma said last weekend. That is the Minister's commitment to realising.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u91	Another sentence that just ends in the air! Mr Buma said quite clearly last Sunday: there can be no autonomous growth at Lelystad Airport. Does his aviation spokesperson endorse that right now here in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u92	That's what I'm underlining right now. Mr Buma has also made clear what I have always said: Lelystad must be there as a landing for Schiphol. That's what we're going for. We'll bet on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u93	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. Mr Laçin on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u94	Mr President, thank you. First, I'd like to welcome everyone in the public gallery. It's a good thing you're here; without you, this debate might never have been there. Mr. Chairman. When the minister arrived almost 14 months ago as a minister, she said she wanted to restore confidence in her ministry. She was quite right, because at that time the confidence was already damaged by, for example, publishing the low flight routes for Lelystad Airport in the summer of 2017. But the question is whether she managed to restore confidence. I'll help her: no, she didn't succeed, far from it. Errors in the environmental impact assessment were discovered by Leon Adegeest. The update of the EIA is incomplete because, for example, CO emissions above 900 metres are not included and ultra-fine dust emissions are certainly not. The calculations for the noise pollution are also significantly lower in the EIA than in practice, so the experience flight with one of the latest devices, in beautiful weather and without passengers and cargo turned out. Did that repent the minister? No. She goes through and pushes Lelystad Airport down the throat of many hundreds of thousands of Dutch people. What also does not help is the fact that the Ministry, Schiphol, the aviation sector and the Commission for the m.e.r. Sitting together on a lap. Authors and assessors of the EIA are married. Officials assist in the preparation of the E.R. Schiphol, which they themselves must assess afterwards. Schiphol postpones the E.R. for two years, until a desired outcome comes. Several ministers and directors of Schiphol come from Shell; yet not an insignificant party in fossil and polluting aviation. Last week, it also became clear that KLM is participating in answers given by MPs to this minister and its officials. So again the question: does the Minister think she has managed to restore confidence? I'd like a response. Nevertheless, the Minister manages to keep on astounding us. After every new low, I think, along with many others, that it can't get any worse. And yet it happens. Because last Friday's letter, in which the Minister opened the doors to autonomous growth and freight flights at Lelystad Airport, had not even seen the coalition coming, I take it from the reactions I have seen. This is nothing but changing the rules of the game when the game started ten years ago. The principle that Lelystad, if expanded at all, has to function as the landing airport of Schiphol, is a brutal blow to the face of people who might still have a tiny bit of faith in this minister and politics, all those people in Overijssel, Gelderland, Friesland, the Veluwe and, for example, everyone who signed the petition we received last week, in the name of everything that has no voice: children, animals and nature. For they are to come to one, and not to push through a hopeless asphalt strip in the polder. Mr. Chairman. Now that the European Commission has also made it clear that forcing companies to move from Schiphol to Lelystad is not allowed, the Minister needs to clarify today. She will have to confirm here that Lelystad would only have the right to exist as a landing of Schiphol Airport, that the plug will go out if that is not possible and that anyhow cargo and night flights will not get a place at Lelystad Airport. I have already mentioned this in previous debates. As far as the SP is concerned, this debate is an excellent opportunity for the Minister to show that she has a straight back, listens to the people she has spoken and supports her earlier words. The Minister has to confess colour today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u95	I am pleased that Mr Laçin is calling for a number of things here and that he also has his opinion on them. First of all, all companies in the Netherlands which also provide employment, are all in the same league. Then every asphalt strip is ruined at once, while I think Mr Laçin's supporters are doing a very good job where those asphalt strips lie: at Schiphol, Maastricht, Eindhoven. But what bothers me most is the proclamation of fake news. This is where real falsehoods are told. If Mr Laçin is going to paint the picture that there has been talk in this Chamber from the beginning, whether it is on the other side of the table or here about night flights or cargo flights in Lelystad, that is fake news. You can give content and say "okay, here I see that again" or "is that so?" But if you are going to shout and say "there are night flights, there are freight flights," you are indeed serving a lot of people who are watching, but you are serving them with fake news. I do not think that is the right thing to do with this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u96	I am surprised that Mr Amhaouch is so keenly coming from the corner. I have had debates with this Minister on cargo flights before. I have expressed my reservations about this, including the answer given by the Minister on a number of occasions. I have therefore repeatedly asked for the agreement that there will be no cargo flights to be laid down in the airport decision. The Minister refused. She didn't. And there are several experts who say that at Lelystad Airport with the safety strips there are very easy widebodies, to call it that, can land, including freight flights. I therefore ask the Minister once again to confirm that this is not going to happen and to record it. I shall be tabling a motion on this later. I look forward to your support for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u97	Asking a question or asking a confirmation is very neat. That's part of it. You can, but that's not what you do. You're proclaiming as if you're telling the truth that they're cargo flights. You also received the airport decision. There's nothing in there about night flights. The Minister has even taken stricter action: there must be no run-off to 0am. We'll stop at 11:00. Then why are you here proclaiming that there are night flights? Why do you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u98	I'm not saying there are night flights. I say there will be no night and freight flights. That's what I'm saying. It matters to me that they're not here. I'm not accusing the minister here of having night flights. I am now also making it clear in this debate of interruption that I am mainly concerned with cargo flights. That they are not allowed to land on Lelystad has been confirmed more often. I want that in black and white.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u99	I think next time a piece of subtitles would be in place when cargo and night are mentioned and it's not meant to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u100	It's meant to be. That is why I call it that, but I did not say anywhere in my contribution that night flights will land in Lelystad. I invite Mr Amhaouch to listen better in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u101	I would like to object to Mr Laçin's too simple picture of Lelystad airport being just a lousy strip of asphalt. For ten years, Lelystad has been waiting for an economic boost. For ten years, Lelystad has been in the top five of the poorest cities in the Netherlands. We really need to help that city and that region with something good. It's not an easy consideration at all what we're doing here tonight. We need to keep an eye on all the pluses and minuses. I would like to ask Mr Laçin to also pay attention to Lelystad and the region, which really need more than what is now available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u102	Agreed. I very much agree with Mr Bruins. I would particularly like to invite all the other parties to include all the pluses and minuses in this story, because I believe that we are having debates here in the national interest. There have been several studies that say, for example, that for a few hundred extra workplaces in Lelystad and surroundings, a few thousand jobs in the recreational sector will disappear. I'll take that into consideration. In addition, I may also take other parties to do so a little less than the SP's burden on residents, I take environmental interests with me, I take climate interests with me, and so I make the trade-off. I am not saying, perhaps, that all airports are worthless asphalt strips in response to Mr Amhaouch's question. I'm talking specifically about Lelystad. That's what I've said before. This is my consideration in the national interest: Lelystad does far more harm than it brings. That is why we are opposed to the expansion of Lelystad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u103	In any case, we agree that it is a complex dossier with many pluses and minuses, which we must carefully weigh.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u104	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u105	I'd like to say something about involving the neighbors. I think there is even a unanimous motion on this. I don't think any party would want residents to be involved anymore. If Members of Parliament are modest and do not call out every time, they should not be put in the corner like they do not want to involve residents. As soon as it is decided by the Chamber, I will not return to it, but it should not be the case that Mr Laçin is going to say: we involve residents. That's what we all want. There isn't any MP...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u106	You've made your point, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u107	Yes, but this is an important point, Madam President. There is no MP present here who does not put security, care and residents first. No one doesn't put these things first. So we should not try to use that stage every time. I think that's the stagework. I honestly don't like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u108	I suggest you proceed, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u109	I'd like to comment on this, Mr. Chairman. In particular, I do not like to be involved; I would like to say this to Mr Graus. I am mainly concerned with involving residents, including in the processes. Of course we all do. If you say that a motion for a resolution has been adopted unanimously, I believe that. I am concerned that in the whole process in which we have ended up in relation to Lelystad Airport, the voice and sound of those residents are also heard. I have never heard, for example, that people living in the neighborhood are participating in answers to parliamentary questions. The airline industry does. That is why I have often said to this Minister: you are there for everyone; you are not an extension of the aviation sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u110	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u111	This minister must be there for everyone, as all Members of Parliament must do their job as a representative of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u112	As far as writing along is concerned, I want to hear that from the Minister; I do not know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u113	A letter about that came in today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u114	There's so much bullshit being written. With all due respect, what's been written about me lately in the paper is the biggest bullshit there is. I don't believe the newspapers, either, with all due respect. They're often just office knuckles writing something down, with all due respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u115	I suggest you proceed, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u116	Today, a letter has been received from this minister explaining to her herself that, in order to inform us properly, she is also submitting things to the sector. I am also looking at the Minister; I think she will confirm this later, because she has indicated this in her own letter today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u117	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u118	Mr. Chairman. I'm going to go over the withdrawal of the traffic distribution rule. I would like to hear from this Minister what concerns he had about Brussels and how the Minister thinks he can incorporate them in her new application. This will be for consultation on 11 January. That's very fast, finds the SP. Why can this be done so quickly and why, for example, have we had to wait six months for the results of one experience flight? Is that a matter of priority, I ask the Minister. We have no confidence in a new VVR, in a traffic distribution rule. Forceing airlines to move is simply not gonna work. So why does the Minister even bother to do that? Finally, I would like to say a few words about the reclassification of airspace. By 2023, that monster job must be completed, but even when the airspace is revised, flying to and from Lelystad continues to be a problem, so close to Schiphol. Whatever Mr.Amhaouch and Dijkstra believe and want us to believe, low flight routes after 2023 are among the possibilities to fly to and from Lelystad, which also puts you in a movement for the stage. This is reflected in the answers to questions put by the House together with Mrs Kröger, Mrs Van Brenk and Mr Van Raan. Can the Minister confirm this? Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, if only the Chamber had adopted my motion in December 2017. In it, I asked for a postponement of Lelystad Airport until the reclassification of airspace was completed. Then the Minister could really have acted transparently and carefully. Because no one is waiting for an airport with price fighters to accelerate the race down on working conditions, increase CO emissions, further damage the climate and cause even more nuisance for residents and for nature. Mr. Chairman. Finally, once again, no extension of Lelystad Airport. This is what the SP stands for, not as a transfer airport and not as an airport for autonomous growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u119	Thank you, Mr. Laçin. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer, on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u120	Mr. Chairman. How does the SGP look at aviation and Lelystad again? The SGP wants fewer flight movements, but given the current policy and the low flight tax, the SGP notes that the traffic at Schiphol Airport is increasing. And given this situation, the transfer of flights from Schiphol Airport to regional airports such as Lelystad is inevitable. But we're not waiting for trouble to move. The SGP therefore continues to argue that Lelystad should not be opened until the airspace review has been completed and we are sure that low flight routes are no longer on the agenda. I have three key points. How does the Minister guarantee that the airspace review will be completed in 2023 and that those low-flying routes will then be over? Several experts indicate that revision is a complex task, which takes time. One says more than five years. The other says, at least eight years. The project plan shows that many interests and parties need to be served. And neighbouring countries still have to move along. From the round table, I was told that the Defense Department said that we have given up enough air space. I wonder if the Secretary of State can confirm that. This is not the first attempt to reclassify airspace. So in that respect, our question is: how sustainable is 2023? And what do Schiphol's growth plans, if we agreed to do so, mean for the chances of success? A crystal clear question has been asked in Parliament's questions: "Can you guarantee that the low-fly routes of Lelystad Airport will be gone by 2023? If so, how do you support this guarantee?" Unfortunately, the answer is vague: "In addition to the scenarios to be examined for the airspace review, the Start Decision will also indicate which improvements will be made before 2023. These include, in any case, improvements that will have to eliminate obstacles to climbing as far as possible unhindered on the Lelystad Airport connection routes before that date. These improvements for the connecting routes are conditional on the growth of Lelystad Airport above 10,000 aircraft movements." "As much as possible" is then conditional on growth above 10,000 flight movements. But those are not the guarantees requested. So again the question: how does the Minister guarantee that the airspace review will be completed in 2023 and that the low-fly routes will really be in the past? I come to my second point: the traffic distribution rule. Lelystad is intended as a landing airport for Schiphol Airport, no more but no less. However, the European Commission is now demanding access for other airlines. How does the Minister intend to restrict this access? It can't be that a budget company like.....you're just gonna fill up in....you're gonna get a place at Lelystad Airport? In addition, Corendon has indicated that he wants to make a full commitment to growth at Maastricht and not at Lelystad. Our question is therefore: what is the perspective for Lelystad as a landing airport? (NL) Mr President, finally, the noise nuisance. There is a discussion on the EIA calculations of the expected noise nuisance due to the low flight routes. In the meantime, measurements have also been made. The measured noise level appears to be higher than expected, even so that some experts doubt the calculation model. There are also discussions around Schiphol. The Minister's defence is that the uncertainty margin of the calculation model is very large and that the measurements fall within it. But I think that's too easy, because if you increase that uncertainty margin enough, you can get rid of all the readings. The experience flight was precisely with a device with a quieter engine than is assumed in the EIA, and also with damping weather conditions. So you'd expect to get into the lower half of the bandwidth, no matter how big you make it. But the readings were just in the upper half, so above the calculated value. I'd say do more test flights and start measuring. Because measuring is knowing, and then I quote Mr Amhaouch if you know what you're measuring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u121	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u122	Thank you, Madam President. My colleague from the Christian Union has already mentioned it, but also the PVV puts care and safety of air traffic and citizens above speed. We would also like to see a regular progress report to keep the finger on the wrist. I hope we can all do that. I would also like to know, before I forget what is happening with our requests for a possible transfer of the air traffic tower at Schiphol Airport, or rather a merger of the current two to one somewhere in the middle. This might eventually be a cheaper and better solution. I wanted to have a reaction to that, because I haven't heard about it since. I would like to know whether all the advice on this matter from experts, such as the Netherlands Air Traffic Control Agency, LVNL, will be followed. If not, which one is not? We also want another line on the share of information by LVNL and the guild. We notice a difference, or at least I notice that; I am not allowed to speak on behalf of other Members of Parliament. There was always a very good connection with the LVNL in the years I've been here, and suddenly that whole contact is gone. We always got an update and information just before an important debate like this. They are really the experts in this field. So it turns out that I, as a Member of Parliament, have to call after that and that there is a kind of new line set up there to put the contacts with politics on a low level. I think that's a very strange and serious matter, I have to be honest with you. We represent the people in our country, but also such an LVNL. We must also be able to represent the people who work there when they do not come out themselves. So I would have liked to have a reaction to that. I'd like that contact restored the way I've always had it. I can see that on other files, too. If you're gonna get a little too smart, all of a sudden all the contacts are cut off. Of course you can't. We are members of the States General. We have the highest office in the Netherlands and we must not be obstructed in anything. It used to be on the back of our card, Madam President. Why was that taken off anyway? In the past my card was backed up: all authorities are asked to provide the holder with all the information. That's been taken off. So I would have liked that back on my card, if you could take care of that. Thank you. The Minister also promised to visualise and monitor dead spots for the LVNL meteorologists, and to take action where necessary and possibly make some money available for new measuring points, so that flights are not unnecessarily cancelled or need to emigrate unnecessarily. That often causes a nuisance, because often they are already around. That is unnecessary and it costs a lot of money. That also costs society a lot of money. So I would have liked to have a reaction to that. Madam President. We didn't necessarily cross the Lelystad Airport story. Well, here's what we did say. Schiphol has been there for over a century. That's where people moved in. Why are you moving the problem to people who haven't chosen to live at an airport? And now everyone's gonna get a little more upset, including people in Overijssel and Gelderland. That's why we've always said, "Would you?" Because Schiphol can grow easily. The new top woman of LVNL and also the CEO of Schiphol say so. The previous CEO even said that Schiphol could grow to 800,000, but the current CEO says 540,000 can. The new top woman of LVNL also says that this can easily be done with current job use. So we must always keep that in mind. I can't stop it on my own, so you'd better go with the second best versions. That's how politics works here. But I anticipated certain problems eight years ago and then I was not listened to. At that time, my motions were not supported either. First of all, we want experts, namely the LVNL and the Air Traffic Control Department of Defence, to be allowed to make a certain design route layout within the security frameworks, in cooperation with Dutch airlines and airports and in the first instance without interference, and to discuss other barriers only afterwards. But the safety must be very, very secure. I also wanted to know what the definition of a low-flying route is. For residents and residents, 1,800 meters is already low and the LVNL finds 800 meters low. Look, if you live on a farm, one fly in the soup isn't much, but someone else does. So I would have liked a response from the Minister. I am still concerned about the tens of millions, which also contains a lot of taxpayers' money, of the time-consuming and problematic changes in airspace. So I would have liked to have a response to my question as to whether we should perhaps turn halfway. Maybe that won't work anymore, but I'm just gonna keep asking. In any case, I have covered myself in a parliamentary inquiry. Then I've done everything I can and I don't have to sit there with a wet butt seam when I'm being interrogated. What are the consequences for the airspace of the arrival of the JSF fighter jet? That's what I wanted to know. Probably the Secretary of State and the Minister will have to answer that. I understand that JSF needs a much larger training area. I do not know how that would be at the expense of the airspace the LVNL also uses. Of course, here too, safety is more important than anything else. Madam President, I have a few seconds left. A lot of questions have been asked. That's always the advantage of being a later speaker, although sometimes it can be a disadvantage. A lot of questions have already been asked. I am waiting for the answer to be received, including with regard to the writing-in. How are we supposed to know if that's true? I don't know. I'm not in the Minister's intimate zone, so I don't know what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u123	I don't know if you should want to. Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u124	I have another question for Mr Graus about the growth of Schiphol. In his contribution he says that Schiphol can easily grow to 540,000 flights. That's what different organizations say. But this can only be done if the fourth job rule is abolished or extended, so that much more can be flown on that fourth job. That's gonna cause a lot of trouble for residents of Aalsmeer and Uithoorn. Will Mr Graus cause any more inconvenience to those people who already have a great deal of trouble with Schiphol? We just talked about the neighbors. Does Mr. Graus give those people more trouble and more sleepless nights than they already have?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u125	I hope it won't be too bad with those nights. We have tried to get an hour's extension, but the government was always quite strict about that. I've even asked you to try to explore much more simultaneous use of runways, dividing it across multiple runways and runways. I think that's what happened. We'll find out soon enough. I've just said in an interruption that it's always difficult. Every Member of Parliament wants to see as little nuisance as possible. That is why we have decided unanimously to involve the residents. But in the end, I'm not the one who decides what that's gonna look like. I say quite honestly that there are also, of course, economic interests and accessibility interests. There's a lot of things going on that a lot of people use. What I do find essential to say and have just mentioned in my speech is that some people also have a lot of advantages of living around an airport. That does not mean that they should be more inconvenienced, of course. But they moved in there. The airport was already there, because Schiphol has been around for more than a century. But now people who didn't choose to do that are gonna get some trouble. I think that is an essential difference. I have to tell you, I know a lot of people who have less trouble with it. The same goes for myself: I would have less trouble with it. So I can't be objective in that. I love planes very much, the noise, the kerosene air and you name it. So I can't be objective in that. I do want as little nuisance as possible. We all share that. I can't easily start talking here from the chair. I'd like to await the Minister's response, if you'll allow me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u126	I think we all share that there should be as little nuisance as possible for residents. But that's what we have to base our choices as a Chamber on. Of course we do not play the buttons, but we do give orders and control the cabinet in this matter. That is why I would like to hear again from Mr Graus whether he is opting for a little bit of economic growth with 540,000 flight movements. They will be mainly price fighters fighting at Schiphol Airport, to which we, as a country and for employment, have little interest or think about less nuisance for people in Aalsmeer and Uithoorn. They are already getting a lot of trouble by anticipating enforcement, which in the end is not enforcement, without that agreement ever being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u127	Once again, I have to say that my colleague Richard de Mos, who is now deputy mayor here in The Hague, asked a long time ago on behalf of the PVV on behalf of the PVV, I believe it was in 2009 to look at the possibilities of building something at sea. That was often laughed at, but we have always been busy to see how to prevent it as much as possible. When freight traffic at Schiphol Airport got in trouble, you fought with me for the people who work there and for the economic interest. So we have to be honest. You should always leave the church in the middle. It is difficult, very difficult, because you can never do 100% good for all actors. I just can't. It's always making choices. To be honest, I am a simple Member of Parliament. Often a Member of Parliament has only one policy officer if he is lucky, while the Minister has a lot of officials and staff. I also often have to wait and see what the Minister will answer. I don't have all the wisdom in rent. You give me more power than I have, Mr. Laçin. I'm just a simple guy from the Eastern Mining District.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u128	Don't underestimate yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u129	No, I don't, but I can't always answer everything. Then I'll just be honest with you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u130	Thank you, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u131	You too, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u132	Finally, Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u133	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to thank Mr Graus who spoke for me. And I thank everyone who has come to this debate. I have been in this Chamber regularly to debate the economy, the financial markets and the banks, and in all these debates there were actually fewer people in the gallery than this evening. So whatever we think of Lelystad Airport, I don't think it's ever been shown that an airport, even before it's even been decided to open it, has so many full rooms. That's worth a compliment. Mr. Chairman. Let me point out that D66 is critical of the Lelystad Airport project. Somewhere it's a good idea to move flights from Schiphol Airport to the polder, but for the last ten years it's become a flattering party of the government. I do not think there is one guilty or one dumbass, but there are only losers from Lelystad, who were promised ten years ago that economic impulse would come, all the way up to the Veluwe to Wageningen. That is why a clear agreement has been made with everyone, including the region. Lelystad must be an overflow airport without autonomous growth. I will come back to that later, because I want to talk about airspace in particular in this debate. Because that's the other big problem besides the landing. Already in 2009 we found that flights arrive at Schiphol Airport, landing above Lelystad. That makes Lelystad an airport with barely any airspace. In this airspace, Lelystad can only be very small with long low-flying over the East Netherlands. That is why my colleague, Rob Jetten, asked for a project plan to be rapidly reorganised over a year ago. It's nice that this is there now. Resetting airspace is making choices between exercise space for the JSF and space for civil aviation, between environment and noise and sometimes between man and machine. When I read the Minister's documents, it seems as if she actually sees it as a technical process, as a mathematical 3D puzzle that needs to be solved by clever minds, which in a wonderful way increases both the capacity of civil aviation and the military capacity. That's what it says in the pieces. "No bullshit, everybody rich," would say Van Kooten and De Bie. But it became clear from the hearing and the briefing we devoted to it that it is not so clear. There will not be a big holiday in 2023 when the minister cuts a ribbon and the Netherlands officially steps from the old into the new sky. No, it's the division piece by piece. The briefings also made it clear where the choices came from. Some of them are fixed, like security. Others are open and civil servants and we, the People's Party, are involved. Air traffic control said at the briefing, among other things: give us the frameworks, then we know what to do. Why now this certainty? That's my first question. Why is the Minister sure that this project was completed in 2023? Based on what facts does she know that the low-fly routes at Lelystad disappeared in 2023? It is essential that the Chamber can be convinced of this. As far as we are concerned, the reclassification results in landings at Lelystad being completely CDA. With CDA we all think of a glide down, a continuous descent approach. So the climb is a continuous climb. Is that also the Minister's point of departure? Is that exactly what she means by unhindered climbing from Lelystad? This is one of the improvements that must be made by 2023. It was also written that as much as possible climbing from 2023 onwards is guaranteed. But to what extent is it not possible to climb through? Can "as much as possible" also mean that climbing through a part of the route is not at all possible, even after 2023? Because the phrase "as much as possible" can also mean "almost nothing." Think of the goalie of De Graafschap who says he wants to keep as many balls out of the goal as possible. Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you this. How are you in the game? Commodore Steur told us that a lot of discussion is possible, also the different setting up of current military practice areas like the Wadden Sea. This may offer opportunities to fly routes from Lelystad to the IJsselmeer instead of the Veluwe. Do you expect that kind of breakthroughs to be reorganised? What is your specific role in agreements with neighbouring countries? As you know, we are in favour of a European military force for D66, but what are the requirements of the Netherlands for good agreements on exercise space for the F-35? Did Belgium and Germany commit that the reclassification here in the Netherlands will be completed in 2023? What promise have they made? And specifically: has there been an agreement in connection with the Functional Airspace Block Europe Central Treaty? Mr. Chairman. Finally, there are three other points: no cargo, no night, no autonomous growth. That opening time for the night is laid down in the airport decision, and that is perfectly clear as far as I am concerned. Then the cargo. That no cargo or full freight is welcome at Lelystad, we don't record. The Minister has been very clear about it and always said: no cargo. I said, if the Minister is so clear, we have to accept that. When I look at Pag. 28 of the explanatory note to the airport decision does raise questions. I quote: 'that cargo traffic at Lelystad Airport is not possible because of the airport infrastructure and the length of the runway laid down in the Lelystad Airport Decision', i.e.: you cannot unload cargo and the runway is too short. But that's thin. Let's make a comparison. The minister's going to St. Martin's in three weeks. Then she lands at Juliana Airport, where a landing plane shaves just across the beach. The courses are 2,300 meters long, 400 less than at Lelystad, and it is also a lot warmer on Sint-Maarten. If KLM and Air France arrive there with widebody planes, which have been in the air for nine hours, with a full load, and can land, how is the orbit in Lelystad too short? After all, the inhabitants of Sint-Maarten are supplied by air. And why is infrastructure a problem? A highloader to handle pure cargo pallets is so placed. Inditex, a Spanish industry at the airport, also indicates on its Spanish-language website that freight transport from Lelystad is one of the major advantages of that location, and that is crazy. I would like to hear from the Minister a convincing story that goes beyond "the job is too short" to indicate why there will be no cargo. Finally, no autonomous growth. The minister wrote a somewhat cryptic letter on Friday, stating that she is looking with the European Commission for a modified VVR that maintains the original goal. The European Commission's assessment also indicates that there is still much to be done in Europe about how to restrict and regulate aviation. As the Minister himself said last summer: with autonomous growth for holiday flights at Schiphol or Lelystad, you are not making any progress. Is she still behind these words? We hope so. With autonomous growth on Lelystad, we are indeed not making any progress. By the way, I believe that Schiphol can be built in the sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u134	A brief comment, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u135	I am glad to hear that for D66 it is really a prerequisite or requirement that there will be no autonomous growth at Lelystad Airport. Does Mr Paternotte agree with me that the airport decision, the process of which is now being initiated, should be maintained until we, as a Chamber, are clear that there will be a VVR to deal with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u136	Yes, I think it would be wise for us to hold it as a chamber, because at the moment we can't do that much with it either. First of all, we need to clarify how Lelystad can become a landing airport. We need to know for sure. That is also why I am naming these conditions. As far as I am concerned, as a Chamber tomorrow, when we meet on this matter, we will say that we are just parking the airport decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u137	Finally, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u138	It's fine that we can do that as a Chamber, but in the meantime it's also being sent to the First Chamber and put into consultation. That is actually all for the troops to walk out, while there is no legal basis with a VVR. Would it not be much clearer, then, if the Minister took back the decision on the airport and first properly regulated the framework conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u139	The VVR would not be included in that airport decision, but there would be a separate front. I do not think that this is a good reason for not having an opinion procedure which allows everyone, including in the region, to express their views on it. That seems to me to be important. The First Chamber has its own responsibility, but I thought there was some order in that too. I think the House of Commons should just park it now. We can't do anything with it right now. But that does not prevent an opinion procedure from taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u140	Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u141	I would first like to thank Mr Paternotte for the fact that I never look at the CDA the same way again. I'm grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u142	The continuous descent approach, you mean, Mr. Amhaouch has often cited it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u143	Yeah, that's exactly why. Mr. Chairman. The chairman of the D66 group is dealing with climate ambition and objectives, and rightly so. He forgets to mention that in any contribution anymore. Could Mr Paternotte's reclassification of airspace also be a starting point, which was not at first but now, to take what we should do for the climate? Could that be one of the starting points in so far as it has not yet been?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u144	In my view, one of the objectives, one of the reasons for the reclassification of airspace, is that excessively long flight routes can be avoided. Indeed, they lead to greater use of kerosene. I once sat next to an air traffic controller who showed how he was leading all the flights around Brabant, where at that time one F-16 was flying around. In my opinion, we can do some things a lot smarter and that is also better for the climate. I fully agree with you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u145	Thanks for the answer. If we agree on this, could we build the 1.5°C target that the Netherlands has in proportion, a little more sharply in that airspace review project? Or do you say that it is sufficient at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u146	That 1.5°C, well below two degrees, is the goal we all strive for. That's what we stand for. But if you link that to the airspace review, I think you're gonna make things really complicated. The goal is that there are flight routes that lead to less use of kerosene, but much more is needed. That is why, when it comes to airport charges at Schiphol Airport, we have also said that the most polluting aircraft will have to pay more. And, of course, there's the flight tax. It is also one of the reasons why the government is now choosing not to grow aviation in the Netherlands for years and that we are committed to agreements on this issue worldwide. It's all necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u147	I understand that, but the fact that it's difficult or difficult doesn't mean we shouldn't. There is a CO budget, including for aviation. You can find out how many aircraft movements there could be, now and in 2030, taking innovation into account. Are you prepared to take such principles with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u148	We support these principles. We've already talked about the plan of the sector, Smart and Sustainable. I do not think it is enough, but at least it goes beyond what can be seen in most other European countries from the aviation sector. I hope that the Minister, when she comes back to us from the climate table, will come up with concrete objectives and concrete agreements, so that we are sure that aviation's CO emissions will be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u149	Thank you. I see Mr Amhaouch standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u150	From the CDA, not the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u151	No, the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u152	You have the CDA and the continuous descent approach; that's the difference between the CDA and the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u153	The CDA is from several markets at home. I would like to comment on Mr Paternotte's pet animal, the airport at sea. It'll come back every two, three months. I think that an airport at sea is technically feasible, because we can do a lot with technology. But the question is what is the solution to this problem? Are you saying we're going to build an airport at sea so we can continue to grow? We would put billions into that and it would take a lot of time and procedures. Are we going to go from the 500,000 from Schiphol Airport to 700,000 or 800,000? Or do you say, no, we're just gonna put it there because you can close Schiphol? What's the idea behind it? For what problem is it a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u154	We are not from the club that says that Schiphol does not matter for the Dutch economy or that we might as well close or halve the airport. Schiphol is very important. But Schiphol still dominates the environment more and more. It's affecting more and more people. The verb "schiphollen" has now become rightly or unjustly proverbial in the Netherlands. I don't think that's good. I have also often cited the example of Amstelveen. People in the Amsterdam region are looking for a home, but 2,500 student homes should not be built there because of Schiphol, so many students still pay way too much for their student home or can't find anything at all and have to stay at home with their father and mother. Now we have an airport in one of the most expensive places in the Netherlands, in the middle of the Randstad, with a lot of people around it, who are also getting more critical about aviation. Shouldn't we see if we can move that airport to a place where all these people don't live? That is why I think we should consider Schiphol at sea very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u155	I understand. The concerns of people living around Schiphol, Eindhoven or Maastricht are also justified. This is where we were specifically talking about Schiphol. The crucial question is: if we decide to build an airport at sea, are we prepared to combine substantial growth with that? Or do you say no, that just takes over? That's essential to know. You're only closing the doors of Schiphol to bring the nuisance back? Or do you say: no, that could achieve growth for the future and thus also meet the great need that exists worldwide? What is the position of D66 on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u156	I'd like to see those two things apart. I think we should be realistic. If that airport is in 20 years' time, it's a realistic timetable. I also hope that by then the ambitions of a country like Norway will be right and that there will be electric aircraft with 100 seats that can fly around over a fairly short distance. It's okay if such a flight comes with it, but if by then we still have those old freight flights where incredibly inefficiently handling kerosene, then of course we don't want that growth. So I'd like to separate it from each other. If you look at relocation there can just be a very good reason for it without you opting for much further growth of Schiphol. In the meantime, however, we assume that the planes are becoming cleaner and quieter. If that proves to be true, then growth is a completely different discussion. They will have to run the politicians of that time, of the next generation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u157	I suggest we come back to this in two months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u158	I'm assuming so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u159	Thank you. That was the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u160	We will continue with the debate on the revision of Dutch airspace. We've come to the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll just split it up a little bit into a few rough blocks. Then I'll start zooming in high: "upchunken" or something. I think we learned that word from Mr. Amhaouch. So I'm gonna start with the reclassification of airspace in general. Then I will deal specifically with the revision of airspace in relation to Lelystad. Then I zoom further into the next block at specifically Lelystad Airport. And I will conclude with a few other loose subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u162	I think there are a lot of people in the gallery who are asking a lot about last Friday's letter. So I would ask the Minister to start with that piece if it succeeds, also to serve all these people while they are still here, and then to move on to the reclassification of airspace. Is that possible for the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u163	I think it is a very good question from Mr Laçin. I also have a kind of question about something a lot of people are waiting for. Indeed, the Minister said just before the debate: perhaps opening Lelystad will be difficult by 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u164	Good. You support Mr. Laçin?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u165	It was picked up in the press. Maybe she can explain that so people know. That's a good question to start with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u166	I assume the Minister will go into that in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u167	Mr. Chairman. Then the blocks will go to hell, so I'll see how I can do it most conveniently, because of course I'd like to facilitate the Chamber in that too. Maybe we should talk about the letter, or actually the note, from last Friday. What is it and what isn't? Well, it's definitely not a new proposal. Nothing has been re-announced. All I wanted to do was to ask your Chamber to give a little more explanation than in the first letter, in which I indicated that I have withdrawn the VVR as it has been notified. Your room asked me why that was. Well, I tried to mention that in the second note. There is no new plan. I'm still in agreement. Now that we know what can't be done, we're looking at how it could be done. I have also said before that the traffic distribution rule is not a Dutch invention: it is a European instrument. So we are now considering how to fill it out. And there has been a misunderstanding about a consultation on 11 January. That's the consultation for the LVB. So it has nothing to do with the traffic distribution rule. If we are going to submit a new traffic distribution rule, it will also be consulted again, as has happened with an earlier variant. But that is completely separate from the consultation of the LVB, which is a translation of what we agreed with each other in the environmental impact assessment. So let me get this straight. I see Mr De Graus walking, but he just passes by!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u168	Yeah, he's just coming in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u169	I thought there'd be a first interruption. But it was a sham by Mr Graus. It's okay! Well, I guess I've already made this clear, then. Or do you want me to do everything, Mr. Chairman? Why don't we do the review around Lelystad first? For in itself there is little to say about a traffic distribution rule, because the one who did not make it has been withdrawn, and I am considering a follow-up. As soon as I get out of there, I'll let your room know, but if I'd already been out of there, I'd have already reported it. And that is not yet the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u170	The main issue now is the following, and this will have become clear from the contributions that have been made. I am talking about the fact that in last Friday's letter, at least in my opinion, the Minister is pre-sorting for autonomous growth at Lelystad Airport. So VVR, Lelystad Airport, revision of airspace or whatever you want to call it, the core is: is the minister now going for autonomous growth at Lelystad? Because that is what the letter says: a balance between new candidates and the landing of Schiphol. As far as I am concerned, that is the key question and also the question that concerns a lot of people, so I should like to put that question straight to the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u171	I would like to put a little order in this debate. The Chamber has had plenty of room for its own input. There has also been extensive interrupting. The minister's been there for 30 seconds. I still want to give her the space to do her story. Then you will have the opportunity to intervene and to ask the questions that have not been answered. So I suggest the Minister just get started.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u172	I have a point of order. I think the Minister just indicated that this was all she was going to say about the VVR, because otherwise there's nothing to say about it, according to her. If that's not the case and there's more coming out of those folders, we'll just wait and see. But if this was all, then now is the time to clarify the issue of autonomous growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u173	Then I'll look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u174	Mr President, let us do that right away. I have indeed indicated that there is nothing more to say about a VVR, since no new one has yet been submitted. You say that the letter shows that the Minister is making a change of direction, but in the letter the Minister indicates what the criticism of Europe, of the European Commission, is. Several Members of Parliament have said: the Minister now has homework. There is therefore no change of course. I'm just sticking to the command from the coalition agreement. If it can't be done this way, I'm just gonna see how it can be done. As soon as I figure out whether or not that's gonna work out, I'll report to you. But there is no new plan, nothing has been resubmitted to the European Commission. I can only repeat that. There is nothing else I can say about something that has not yet been filed and what has not yet been filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u175	That raises the question: does the Minister exclude autonomous growth from Lelystad Airport?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u176	It's a bit of a repetition of the answer I just gave. I keep to the order of the Chamber, as it has just been repeated by several parties: Lelystad is meant as a landing port of Schiphol. I'm gonna make a hundred percent effort to make that happen, but I'm not sure it's gonna work. You will have to be patient until I, hopefully, can come to you with a new proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u177	I do not think that is an answer to my question. The Minister is going to do her best, and I am sure he will, but the question is: is there a tough peripheral condition for the traffic distribution rule or any other measure that there will be no autonomous growth at Lelystad Airport?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u178	I have just indicated that I have been very well aware of what the parties, not least the coalition parties, have given me on this issue. There is no change of course. I have been working on this, and I will continue to do so, but it has yet to be seen whether it will succeed, because I have not yet been negotiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u179	This is also a repeat of the previous answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u180	Clearly, if the Minister sends the same message, there will be another rejection, so something will have to change. Something will have to change and she herself mentions this in the letter. It calls it a balance between the original plan and the market access of new parties. Can the Minister explain what she means by the concept of balance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u181	The only thing I can say about this is that that is the point of criticism of the European Commission. That is what you asked me for: why did the European Commission not find this VVR acceptable? That's what it says. Then I will come back to the European Commission and say: 'Good, a traffic distribution rule is your own instrument; I must have somewhere a land on which I can divide up'. We're having that conversation right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u182	That's right, and that can't be the same conversation that's already been made, because that's not gonna work. So the Minister is going to look for that balance. This means that there is a degree of change that meets Europe's desire. That can also mean nothing other than that it is a change in what you submitted earlier and therefore also a change in your position. You don't rule that out in your letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u183	No, I'll have to tell Mr. Van Raan...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u184	Please, correct me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u185	... yet fight in his opinion. Correcting is very presumptuous to me. You have already discussed a possible traffic distribution rule with my predecessor, Mrs Dijksma. We also found that it wasn't going to be him. Then we submitted a second variant that was still in line with the same principle. Once again, I would like to point out that, of course, I am not going to come up with a traffic distribution rule that this coalition cannot live with and that has been very clear, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u186	A successful fight against Mr Van Raan. This means that what the Minister is going to offer as a new variant does not distort words and does not mention the concept of 'autonomous growth' or'market forces' in the sense of new companies. That is good to establish, because otherwise it would be a deviation from what the Chamber had established.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u187	Well, no mention of those words, that's another very different point. But I don't suddenly have a completely different objective. I don't feel like I've suddenly been given another assignment from the Chamber. By the way, I'm not sure we're getting out yet. So I don't know if I can re-notify anything either. I'm doing the best I can for that. As soon as I make a decision, of course, as a Chamber, you will be the first to hear it and you will find something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u188	I think the Minister is getting away with it a little too easily. The letter she sent four days ago states: "In this context, it is important that the VVR should not completely cut off market access for new entrants. A balance is thus sought between the market access of new entrants and the original objective of the VVR to allow Lelystad Airport to function as a transfer airport." Those sentences in this letter have caused a lot of fuss in the last few days. Now it is said 'I am not going to do that', but it is in the letter sent to us by the Minister. That is why we want to clarify this. I hear the Minister now saying: that's not what I'm going to do. I would therefore like to conclude with the Minister that the new proposal that she is going to submit is still based on 100% overflow of Schiphol and not a single percentage of autonomous growth in Lelystad. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u189	I am glad to be able to clarify this. I do not see any change of direction, no other task than I have had in the past from your Chamber and which has just been confirmed by the spokesmen, including the coalition. I have already said that, of course, I am not going to come back with something that the coalition cannot live with.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u190	I hope the opposition doesn't either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u191	No, that would be even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u192	Good. It is true, however, that the Minister also pointed out that the European Commission has already rejected or withdrawn this request twice or whatever you want to call it, so the European Commission does not agree to 100% overflow. Well, that's the job the minister's been given. So I really wonder what the Minister will submit if Brussels rejects what we want over and over again. I hope the Minister can give an opening on that. So what is the conclusion that we need to draw from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u193	Now Mr Laçin is actually asking for the familiar road. I have just indicated that if I knew what the solution was, I could submit something right away. I would share that with your room. I don't have that solution yet. We're still talking about that. I am doing my utmost, but I can't guarantee it, especially when it comes to the deadline for us to get out. If I see an opportunity for the wish that is widely shared to ensure that Lelystad can only function as the landing airport of Schiphol and create space for the much-needed intercontinental hub traffic, you will hear from me. If it should not work, you will of course hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u194	The Minister must consult again with Brussels, so the Minister can't say anything about that now; that makes sense. I just saw some differences in the coalition, but the Minister clearly says that this overflow function is 100% for me, and I am going to look into the legal situation in Brussels to see if it can be arranged in any other way. What if that doesn't work, because it's always above this debate? Is the cabinet going to say: Lelystad Airport will come anyway, if necessary with an adapted arrangement? Or would that mean Lelystad Airport wouldn't get there unexpectedly? Is the conclusion that intense?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u195	Those are all those like-dan questions. I am going to do my utmost to find a good solution for this, which does justice to what I think almost the entire Chamber wants. The vast majority want this to happen. That's what we're trying to figure out. I am not going to anticipate the question: what if it doesn't work? I never think that's a good motivation. You always have to go for it to do it. And I'm working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u196	It's a repeat all the time, Mr. Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u197	No, I am asking this question for the clarity of the debate, because this is one of the main points of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u198	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u199	I'm asking you to get this straight. I can assume that the Minister now, at least from the Netherlands, sees legal possibilities to regulate it in another way? I understand the Minister can't say anything about that now, but apparently there are other routes as well. There's no other way, is there? Otherwise, the Minister will go to Brussels with an impossible task.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u200	Mr Van Dijk himself has already pointed out that the Minister cannot, of course, say anything about it. If I hadn't, I would have. Let me put it this way: if I saw zero more chance, I would have reported it to your Chamber. I haven't completely expanded everything. I haven't discussed everything. So I haven't thrown the towel in the ring yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u201	I also see in this debate that we have placed far too much on Europe, but that aside. I think this is the last piece in the block of traffic distribution rule. I asked another question about Corendon. If Corendon bets on Maastricht, let's assume for a moment that Lelystad is only an overflow airport.What is the perspective for Lelystad? Is there a perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u202	I don't know if I fully understand your question, because I've never had the impression that Lelystad Airport would be entirely dependent on Corendon. So I don't see that connection as one-two-three.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u203	Then I understand that the Minister says that, despite Corendon's commitment to Maastricht, I think that this is a lot of flights and that there is still a perspective for Lelystad, also purely as a landing airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u204	Yeah, because Corendon didn't leave that desired space at Schiphol, which is exactly what it's all about for us. I think this is precisely the autonomous growth you are not a fan of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u205	I do!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u206	Except Mr. Graus, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u207	Not me, but thank you for the answer. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u208	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u209	The minister's gonna tie in anyway. After the letter in which she clearly states that she is going to look for a balance to give newcomers a place to meet the European Commission's concerns, there has been a fuss, including among the coalition parties. Apparently that fuss worked out of the coalition parties. My question is: what if the European Commission demands that autonomous growth is possible and that newcomers can get a place at Lelystad Airport? The Minister does not want to answer the question as a dance, but I think it is on the agenda. The Minister has been hit twice by Europe. So the question is: what conclusion does the Minister draw when Europe demands that newcomers have a place at Lelystad Airport?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u210	I do not agree with Mrs Kröger that this question is now on the agenda, because it is not now. I'm still exploring all possible avenues. Once I'm out, I'll either come back to your room with a new proposal for a notification or not, and we'll have another conversation. But I can't anticipate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u211	The Minister indicated earlier that we as Chamber are the first to hear it when there is a new proposal for notification. Unfortunately, that was not the case before the summer. Then we got it when it went to Brussels. Will the Minister promise that the new traffic distribution rule, before it goes to Brussels for notification, will first be submitted to the Chamber for consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u212	No, I want to follow the same procedure there. That means you'll be the first to know that I'm going to notify you of something. Then you can see it again in the same way and you can find everything you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u213	We'll see about that traffic distribution rule. You're gonna come up with it and make it quick, I hope. What does this mean for planning? Is the ambition still in April 2020? Is that realistic? If the VVR doesn't get there unexpectedly, do we still have alternatives such as market forces?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u214	Those are also questions that I cannot really answer at the moment. Of course, I will make every effort to ensure that the opening of Lelystad takes place as soon as possible, i.e. in 2020. But it also depends a little on whether we can quickly find a solution or whether more time is needed. So I can't give you any guarantees about that. I will have to think of the answer to that first and then look at the timetable, but I will continue to do my utmost. We are also going to talk about air traffic controllers and so on: are there enough? The people who want to do that for Lelystad are already in training and eager to get to work. I certainly feel a responsibility to all those people around the airport who are really waiting for that to happen as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u215	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u216	Is it perhaps wise that I should now come to the revision of airspace in general? Now that the most pressing questions have been answered, I think it is systematically better to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u217	I'd be fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u218	Mrs Kröger has asked why there is no planMER for the airspace review. I have made you happy with a planner for the Aeronautics Note, but I would ask you to wait a little longer. It is not a mandatory part of the airspace review procedure. At the moment we are considering whether, and if so, how, a planMER could have added value in this procedure. The way in which we will implement this will also be determined in the initial decision. So I'm not saying no, but I'm not saying yes. We are currently assessing what the added value could be. Mrs Kröger also asked how I would ensure a careful balance in the context of the airspace review. The project is precisely aimed at carefully balancing all relevant interests in the air and on the ground. At every stage, it also involves targeted social and administrative participation that can bring all interests into play. In the 2019-2020 exploration phase, variants are designed and analysed, so that the advantages and disadvantages for everyone can be seen. Each phase will therefore be completed with a clear decision: the start decision in 2019 and the preferred decision in 2020. In doing so, we will also make it clear together how the interests have been weighed. In the end, of course, it is up to you as a policy to make a well-founded and well-balanced choice. Mr Amhaouch has asked how the steering committee will work in the near future. You, like me, clearly attach importance to a clear division of roles and hats: who is going about what? I can inform you that in the project the three air traffic control organisations LVNL, CLSK and MUAC work together under the direction of our two ministries, IenW and Defence. With us lies the policy responsibility and the competent authority. To give you a first look at how well we work together: I've already taught my colleague all kinds of things that are laughing, new terms, for example for the direction we're going in. We're talking about the main shot. The main thrust of this steering group is to step up together and jointly forward in this airspace review project. So we've already started learning over and over again. I'm also trying to make my own defense jargon. The Steering Committee shall be chaired by the Director-General for Aviation of the Ministry of IenW, with the Director of Defence Policy as Deputy Chairman. The official programme team is led by a Director of IenW. The direction is therefore dependent on both departments and policy responsibility is clearly separate from management responsibility. So I think you will have the clarity you rightly asked for. If participation is well secured in the governance structure of the whole project, Mr Amhaouch also asks. The participation in the Airspace Review project distinguishes between administrative, social and user participation. This has been included separately in the project plan. Each milestone in the project will consider which parties are informed about this and which can co-operate or co-operate. We will also ensure that the parties concerned are informed in good time of the process and its planning. Social participation thus takes place both at national and regional level. I also believe that this is particularly important in the case of provinces and municipalities, each with its own role and responsibility. The Empire is competent authority and responsible for participation. We have therefore made it clear in the various consultations in the regions, in the provinces, that the provinces can also make their own voice heard, as well as that they can facilitate, for example, by providing their province house or other rooms. In many cases, there will simply be a technical chairman and each can have his own input from his own role. Mr Stoffer and Mr Paternotte asked: how does the Minister guarantee that the revision will be completed in 2023 and how long will it take? As already agreed in the coalition agreement, the cabinet will implement the adaptation of airspace by 2023. So it all has to be done within that time horizon. It's top priority for us. The project plan has been endorsed by the five civil and military partners as feasible. A joint steering committee has been set up for strategic direction and also for monitoring progress on the project. I've just reported to you who are all represented in it. Each partner has indicated that they will also work fully on this project from their own responsibility. The civil-military cooperation, between both LVNL, CLSK and MUAC, which, as you probably know, has been going on for some time, provides a good basis for this review. You can also see that where we were able to open the colocation together last year, all its benefits are being paid by people getting more and more used to hanging out in daily practice. Mr Graus expressed concern that he had always had a good relationship with LVNL and that contact was suddenly gone. I do not see any obstacle as to why you could not continue or resume the good contacts you have always had. I do know LVNL as an organization that is simply open to all forms of contact, including with your Chamber. I believe that regular work visits have also been organised and so on. So I personally see no obstacle to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u219	Normally LVNL was very active to inform MPs, who are here at the front, well. These are often technical matters on which they are experts and we are not. I understand that... Keep talking, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u220	No, I'm not. I was just asking who exactly this organization is, so I can follow it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u221	That's Air Traffic Control Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u222	These abbreviations are not all known to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u223	That's right, Madam President. That is why, in my term of office, I have always mentioned this in full a few times, and I have just mentioned the abbreviation, so that the people at home know what I was referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u224	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u225	There were people who maintained contacts with us, and those were warm contacts. I know a lot of colleagues have been there. Now there seems to be a policy that should be kept out of politics as much as possible. I have also noticed that, because this is the first time in all these years that I have been an aviation spokesman that I have not received information from LVNL, and I find that worrying, because we need to be informed by experts on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u226	I don't see why that wouldn't be possible. I suggest you contact LVNL yourself. If you are told that no contact is desirable or anything like that, I would like to hear it, because I would not know why not. I can only say that at the various information meetings we have had in the country, the LVNL was always very willing to explain everything. They are very open to citizens' questions and briefings in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u227	The Minister says to have confidence in 2023, because it is a top priority. There is good cooperation between the five partners. There's a colocation. There's a solid foundation. Only, of course, it all remains with "there is an organisation and the intentions are good." Is it a certainty that in 2023 we will really be finished with this project or is that still an uncertainty?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u228	As Mr Paternotte knows, you can never give 100% certainty. If a bomb falls somewhere, we have a whole different story. But everyone has faith in this planning. That's what I hear from the CLSK, from the LVNL, from the MUAC. Everyone's on top of getting the schedule. So I have no reason to doubt it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u229	In the end, our neighbouring countries are also needed to achieve it. Have they also committed to this planning? I mean Belgium and Germany, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u230	No, we cannot go so far as to ensure that neighbouring countries conform to our planning. We will be discussing the relations with neighbouring countries later on, as well as with the Secretary of State. We have already told your Chamber that in the most negative case that they would not want to cooperate, we always improve what we can improve within Dutch airspace on a Dutch scale.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u231	My question follows on from what Mr Paternotte has just said. We have seen a progress letter from last December 14, very recently. There is also something about a gateway review, with a lot of recommendations that are really just needed for adjustment and further details. It already says here that they have all been taken over, as far as they fall within the scope of the project. Now, of course, you always have risks. My question is actually: how much bandwidth is in the planning? How much risk is there in that? Does the Minister say "I'm just really sure I'll be ready by 2023, because I still have a lot of space in the planning"? Or is this really a very tight schedule, where we're pretty sure we're gonna get over it in a minute?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u232	Mr Stoffer has a Rijkswaterstaat background. He knows that there is a deterministic and probabilistic planning. Now, of course, we start from this probabilistic planning. So you can never plug it 100%, but you make sure that there is enough space in it to get it all completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u233	These terms sound familiar to me. I still have some uncertainty, but it's well sent. That's what I hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u234	One of the criteria for reclassification is sustainability; the climate impact, perhaps. I just heard the Minister say that, should there be dependencies that she does not have in control, for example abroad or planning, she simply continues with the Dutch part. If I have heard that correctly, that is rather disturbing, because one of the things that makes the reclassification sustainable is the consultation with the other countries. We have heard and understood that it is precisely connecting with English airspace and French airspace that makes it possible to fly more efficiently and better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u235	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u236	This is therefore crucial for the sustainability criterion. Going crafting a little within their own borders doesn't make any sense at all. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u237	I certainly agree with Mr Van Raan, but I was just asked: are you sure you're going to make the planning? Since I have that promise, I would like to inform you that, if we have no clue at all about this, we will certainly not want to participate in all those neighbouring countries, in order to keep the promise to your Chamber, at least re-assess the Dutch airspace. But, of course, we are looking mainly, but not only, at the neighbouring countries. We are, of course, still working on the Single European Sky story, where we are trying to achieve this efficiency at European level in the interests of the climate as well. That is what we are continuing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u238	This is your fifth question, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u239	Of the...?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u240	Out of six.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u241	Fifth question, then. It's good to see that. That means that, if there is any reason to doubt that the rest is in play, that is really a big, large part of that reclassification right here in the Chamber in the sense of: maybe those sustainability criteria and those low-flying routes are all not going to work. Can the Secretary of State undertake to do so here? At the slightest or least, we should know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u242	Well, if we encounter such substantial things in the sense that one of the neighbouring countries would not cooperate, I will, of course, ring the bell with you. But if you say "the least or the least," then I'll be able to hold on to anything. But I think we understand each other. If such a great thing occurs, I will, of course, inform the Chamber about it. Then I'll stay with Mr Van Raan for a while. In fact, we have already discussed this in the VAO Aviation: the 1.5°C as a starting point. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan eigenlijk niet anders dan herhalen wat ik toen ook al heb gezegd: uiteraard streven wij met z'n allen naar dat 1,5°C-scenario, maar ik kan het nu niet specifiek voor de luchtvaart op iets toespitsen.]] We are going to do our utmost at the sustainable aviation table to agree as concretely as possible actions with a higher level of ambition. I can see Mr Paternotte nodding; he spoke about it in his speech. We are truly ambitious to set as concrete objectives as possible at that sustainable aviation table.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u243	Last question, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u244	Yes, Mr. Chairman. That's a good count. That's right. Wouldn't it help the Minister to work for aviation with something that is already known, namely a CO tonnage budget? Those figures are known. There are few uncertainties for both the Netherlands and flights to and from the Netherlands. That science exists. Wouldn't that help the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u245	We're working on a good process at that sustainable aviation table. All the examples you mention are also known and weighed. I hope that we can get the most ambitious package out of it, but I cannot anticipate that. I shouldn't be sitting there like a dictator. It doesn't work that way. As regards the contacts with neighbouring countries, I can at least say that there are plenty of opportunities there. On the military front, the Secretary of State will go into more detail. Now I come to the lake related to Lelystad Airport. Mrs Kröger says that we cannot open Lelystad on the basis of a failed calculation model. You say measure first, then open. This too is a bit of a repetition of moves. You look surprised; well, it's my coarse translation. You didn't literally put it that way, no. That's what I'm saying right now. But you say it should be measured first before it could be done at all. Then let me put it this way. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan herhalen dat de MER voldoet aan de wettelijke voorschriften.]] As you know, the calculations in the context of the update have been validated by the agencies To70 and Adecs Airinfra. A counter-expertise has also been performed by the DB Vision agency. The Commission then adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and their trailers. reviewed and advised positively on the update of the EIA. You also know that I am going to start a programme approach to measuring aircraft noise to bring calculations and measurements of aircraft noise closer together. We will always need models to capture future situations. So I do my utmost with experts from the Netherlands and abroad to improve the differences between the models and the calculations, but for the time being we have at least worked with legally approved models. Then the point of cargo at Lelystad Airport. As I have said before, I cannot stress it enough: no night and no cargo. In my opinion, you are all reassured about the night. I hope you have all seen that we have applied a tightening-up of the so-called extension criterion on this point and that we are only further anchoring it. With regard to cargo, Mr Laçin and Mr Amhaouch asked: can the Minister confirm once again that there will be no cargo on Lelystad? The answer to that is yes. With the fixing of runway length in the airport decision, large cargo aircraft, for example a B-747, cannot use Lelystad Airport. The runway is too short for those planes to leave with full weight, so with cargo and fuel. Furthermore, the airport does not carry out cargo handling capacity. There will be no loading facilities, no loading stations, no customs clearance, and no pilots. Lelystad Airport is further certified for a type of traffic on the basis of European regulations, EASA regulations. These are maximum devices with a wingspan like that of a B-737. Lelystad cannot, therefore, use the airport in violation of that safety certificate. That certificate is published in the AIP. That is the Aviation Guide, which includes the routes and airspace aspects. It also states that there are no handling facilities for cargo. Operators are always legally obliged to take note of and act accordingly. I can't say much more clearly. Maybe one more sentence about Inditex. Ms Kröger asked why Inditex chose Lelystad. Important reasons for companies to settle in Flevoland include the low land costs, the available space and a short distance to Schiphol, because that is still very close. Also very important is the availability of staff; we understand that this has been decisive for Inditex. The director of Inditex indicated in logistics.nl in March 2016 that the availability of personnel is top priority in the final location choice. I think that's the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u246	The Minister is simply giving the same answer as the one she has given earlier. Then I can ask the same question as I asked earlier. Several experts say that a Boeing 777 can simply land at Lelystad Airport; Mr Paternotte also referred to Sint-Maarten. The Minister has a different opinion; fine. The Inditex story is also known. In their own coverage they sort out for them to be close to Lelystad and that it's all going to work so well. Why does the Minister find it so difficult to establish in the airport decision that cargo is simply not possible? In three years' time, there may be another minister who says: we will simply settle that handling capacity. Why don't we take care of it now so it can't just go wrong later? What's so hard about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u247	Two things. Mr Laçin says that that plane can land there; he has just said that or an expert has said so. That's right, but they can't leave full. If you want a business case for cargo, it's kind of weird, of course, if you'd always have to leave on an empty plane. Your second question was why the Minister did not just do this, because then we would be much easier to get rid of this ambiguity. That is not legally possible; it is not allowed. So I cannot include that in such a decision. Otherwise, I would have done that a long time ago, because, frankly, I would have liked to have this discussion out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u248	Then I think the conclusion is very simple. The minister says it can't be legally established. It is possible in principle. The Minister also says that a fully loaded plane cannot land there. So a three-quarters or half-charged plane can land there. There is therefore no guarantee that in the coming years no cargo will land and take off at Lelystad. That is the conclusion I draw from the Minister's words. I'd like her to respond to that. Am I right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u249	It will not surprise Mr Laçin that I find that a very strange conclusion. I give you all kinds of points, such as the infrastructure and the whole procedure, which show that nothing has been set up. I refer to the Aviation Guide and EASA certification. Everything is set to that no cargo is possible. Operators have to act on that, too. We can't make it any clearer than that, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u250	The Minister mentions a number of things that I think are right. The official values are clear, so you can't put cargo there right away. But those are also things that are relatively easy to change. What makes me uncomfortable is that the Minister is also appealing to the length of the track. I mentioned Saint-Maarten, because in connection with Hurricane Irma there were also widebody's, who were not weight-controlled and could simply fly from there to Europe. A cargo flight can in some cases be a bit heavier indeed. But that doesn't rule out a cargo flight with a 737. There is a lot of unrest, right or wrong. I've been getting a lot of reports from people who are really worried about this. The points mentioned by the Minister are valid, I think. But we have not seen them in a row in the explanatory memorandum and they are not attached to the airport decision. Could you at least tell us what the guarantees are that people will know that there will be no cargo flights at Lelystad Airport?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u251	I'd like to take another look at why we can be sure that there will be no cargo flights to Lelystad. Your Sint-Maarten story is of course a completely different story, because that island is dependent on air supply and therefore it is not so relevant whether you leave with a full plane again; there is not much production there. But I'd like to tell him that I'm gonna get my head straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u252	It is true that the widebody's that left from there also with passengers did not reach a maximum of passenger baggage. Anyway, that point seems clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u253	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u254	I am going to put it all together once again, because, like you, I would like this ambiguity to be eliminated. I am only very sorry that this discussion can always pop up again and again, when we all do not want cargo to get there in any way. Mrs Kröger asks: what does low-flying from Lelystad Airport do with the safety risks? Of course, the starting point for designing the flight routes is always safety. Mr Dijkstra and others have also mentioned it: safety is always paramount. The drafts must therefore comply with strict international safety requirements. In recent months LVNL and CLSK have prepared a safety analysis for the routes. That safety analysis will be submitted to ILT and MLA for review at the beginning of 2019. Recently they have already performed a first, informal test. That review has produced no findings, no problems. But the review will take place officially in early 2019. Of course, you will be informed about this again. Mr Bruins says: according to the Minister, the measured peak sound cannot simply be compared with the annual average sound load, but the peak sound is input for calculating Lden, and that is how the mathematical relationship is determined. That was about your question. Based on the measured peak noise during one flight, no ruling can be made on the indicative average peak load calculated in the EIA, and thus certainly not on the statutory annual average noise load, Lden. Peak sound is one of the components in the Lden model. However, Lden and Lmax are two different sizes, which cannot be compared. For example, Lden is based on the sound of the whole aircraft passage, while the peak load is only the highest sound level during an aeroplane passage. Does the calculation model used comply with European rules? I've already gone into that. Is the Minister prepared to take a decision on the opening of Lelystad following an agreement in Brussels and in connection with the airport decision? Based on the results of the... I see that Mr Bruins wants to interrupt, but that may be about the previous one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u255	One sentence came along very quickly. The Minister said earlier that the model complies with all laws and regulations. My specific question is whether it also complies with European legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u256	Yeah, I haven't answered that yet. For Lelystad, the best available model has been used that also complies with the European legal requirements. That is what the Commission has for the m.e.r. also confirmed in its opinion. In the model, noise profiles are determined using sound certification data obtained from measurements under internationally prescribed rules, i.e. ICAO rules. So they also apply here. Are I prepared to take a decision on the opening of Lelystad Airport following an agreement from Brussels and in connection with the airport decision? On the basis of the outcome of the opinion procedure, which is therefore to start in mid-January, and after completion of the preliminary procedure in the Second and First Chambers, we will submit the draft decision to the Council of State for its opinion. Afterwards, the Cabinet will assess in conjunction all relevant information, including the results of a possible notification of a subsequent VVR. In short, the cabinet doesn't suddenly decide on Lelystad Airport. That happens all the way at the end, if all parts are also in accordance with the requirements of your Chamber. What about the EU's statement on the PAS............................................................................................................................................................. Does the ruling of the European Court have any consequences? In the EIA for Lelystad Airport, the effects on nitrogen deposition have been shown. The temporary situation was also taken into account. The maximum impact is less than the limit value for priority projects of 1 mole per hectare per year, i.e. less than 0.6. That means that a report is enough. This fits within the space reserved for airports in the PAS. Thus, the effects on nitrogen deposition are secured. You know the general story about the PAS: we are awaiting what the Council of State will do with it. Mr Dijkstra asked whether there were sufficient traffic controllers, including with a view to opening Lelystad Airport. At present, there are sufficient traffic controllers to carry out the daily operation and the important projects. LVNL and CLSK train a group of air traffic controllers and assistants to provide air traffic control services to Lelystad Airport. Of course, we actually have the challenge across Europe to provide enough air traffic controllers for the longer term as well. This is something that we have already discussed together with all the ministers at European level: what can we do to make the profession even more attractive? Finally, Mr Bruins' question as to whether the Minister shares the need to clarify the aviation note on ultra-fine dust, safety and so on before decision-making can take place on the development of Schiphol. I do not want to anticipate what the Schiphol Environment Council will hopefully advise me about this future development soon. But of course, as I say in the direction of Mr Bruins, health and safety play an important role in this, for the Cabinet but also, of course, for the Environment Council when I listen to the sounds. One more point mentioned by several. Is the Minister reading other people's work for this? Is she getting one-liners delivered? I can be very clear about that. I decide what I say or write to your room. Anyone can give me advice on this. Whether it's people who whisper to me on the way, for example on the Aviation Day, or people who put leaflets in my hand, anyone can do their best to convince me of one or the other. In the end, I will decide for myself what I think of something and what I share with your room. So if there was any idea that I would read out what a random partner in the sector would suggest to me, then I really should help those out of the dream, because I would never do that. I certainly wouldn't want that either. In that respect, I really think it's a bullshit story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u257	Your last question, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u258	It may well be that the Minister thinks it's a bullshit story and it's fine that anyone would be able to advise her. The only question is who the Minister himself is getting advice from. I think that's the key question in this matter. If the Minister himself actively submits the questions we ask her and the Ministry to the sector, I have a problem with them. The letter sent to us today by the Minister states that the Ministry itself consults the sector. That is not the same as giving advice to the Minister. Does the Minister also see that this could create a problem for the credibility of the answers we receive to our questions and that the sector will answer the questions on the basis of their interests rather than the interests of all the citizens of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u259	You are referring to the safety story of the Security Research Council. Those passages with recommendations refer not only to us as a ministry, but also to the sector. If you are asking me about this, I must, of course, ask the sector what they are doing and so on. I can't write about the sector without asking the sector if it's true. For example, when it comes to the Safety Review Board, the sector is represented by the directors of Schiphol, LVNL and KLM. These parties each have their own direct and formal responsibility. If I have to report to your Chamber on that, I have to ask them for that information. Of course, you're in tune and you're in that security meeting together, but that's different than I'd just take blind advice. I think you know me well enough to know that I'm really not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u260	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u261	Let's see. I think I'm through. I suddenly see I've had all the folders. I thought I needed another one, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u262	There's been an interruption, too. Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u263	It is true that the Minister can find something about whether to inform or not. I think the SP has butter on its head when it's always the mouthpiece of the FNV. That's what I wanted to say, but that's not my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u264	Wait a minute, Mr. Laçin. You'll have the opportunity in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u265	I'll be addressed, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u266	Yeah, I heard all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u267	I said something about butter on the head or something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u268	Mr. Amhaouch, would you mind asking your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u269	I had initially asked the Minister about the letter we received on the reclassification of airspace, because that is what the debate is about today. I think it is very important for a lot of people who are worried about the low-fly routes to mention that the reclassification programme team is also responsible for the connecting routes to Lelystad. She indicates that crossing with Lelystad is a priority. Can the Minister once again reflect on what she means by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u270	I see I hadn't answered a few things after all, so I'll do that right now. It was still in another folder after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u271	Before you do that, Mr Laçin would like to make a personal statement. Something with butter and a head, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u272	Personal fact or not, I just want to respond to these allegations from the CDA. I am standing here because there are documents showing that the Minister and the Ministry are submitting things to the sector. That's what the Minister himself confirms. So to now accuse me of having butter on the head... I would like to invite the CDA to listen a little more to the trade unions, workers and residents, so that the CDA is not here as a sign of the aviation sector, but as a popular party and representative and does not accuse other parties of listening to multiple parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u273	Then I'll look at the minister first, because he was working on the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u274	Back to the subject: you need to be able to have normal contact with everyone in the sector. If you have any informational questions, you'll be in touch. When it comes to opinions and choices, I can only repeat that I always make them myself. Mr Amhaouch asked about the priority of routes. Can the Minister confirm that there will be steeper take-off routes and that there will be as much as possible in the CDA for him that will be quite fun to repeat? The adaptation of the connection routes to and from Lelystad has been given as a top priority. That is a political task. All the parties that are working on this know that. The decision on the start-up of the airspace review will, among other things, identify the improvements that need to be made before 2023 in order to overcome the obstacles to climbing as far as possible on the Lelystad Airport connection routes and also to be able to land as far as possible on gliding flights.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u275	That's obvious. The Minister says, "Wherever possible, we try to do so sooner." She also mentioned the start decision. I also said in my speech that the Chamber adopted the Amhaouch/Dijkstra motion in the context of high-flying for 2023. What is the result of this in the initial decision? Can you tell me about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u276	We hope as much as we can. That's what those words "as much as possible" were all about. Anything we can achieve faster than the entire reclassification of airspace will already be included in that decision. But before the end, so if the entire airspace has been reorganised, all the low-flying problems must be solved anyway. We're gonna try to do it a little earlier as much as possible. So "as much as possible" refers to as much earlier as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u277	That's good. That was my question, too. The start decision is expected in Q1 or Q2 next year. Does it say where we can do what? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u278	Yeah, we'll tell you what we can do soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u279	Good. We have clearly heard answers about cargo, night and nitrogen. I have one more question that I would like an answer to. We receive emails from people who live in Alkmaar, Oegstgeest or on the Veluwe. They see planes flying relatively lower than they should actually fly. Above Alkmaar they already fly at a certain height, but given the Polderbaan the distance is quite far. That's the case with Oegstgeest. The idea is that air traffic controllers use a little lower at assembly sites to put the aircraft in a kind of train in a row. That's lower than it actually needs to be. Is that also because air traffic controllers say that this is just easier for them, given the workload? Is there anything you can do about that? Because there are a lot of complaints coming in from people who say that the planes are actually lower than they might actually be if they just came in with a glide.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u280	I can't answer that question right now, one-two-three. To this end, I should like to specifically highlight the case of Oegstgeest or Alkmaar mentioned by you. I suggest I put that back with the people of LVNL. They're the experts for that. I shall return to that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u281	Fine. Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u282	I have two further open questions on the issue of airspace reclassification. It's possible that's still gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u283	I will come back to a few questions, because I had met a few more. The definition of "low flight route" has been requested. You yourself know that there is no definition of this. The term was once created because it meant that departing Lelystad traffic should remain under the airspace reserved for Schiphol traffic without additional instruction. Of course, you're going to lift that situation. Soon there will be no need to be flown under Schiphol traffic. By the way, we assume that we will be able to move forward much earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u284	Can you please answer all the remaining questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u285	Yeah, I've got about four more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u286	I'd like the Minister to answer those questions, Mr. Paternotte. Then you will have the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u287	Can the Minister rule out the fact that there would be an increase in airspace capacity after 2023 if the routes were not to be higher, but there would be an increase in airspace capacity? How is it maintained? I have already informed your Chamber that I am setting the maximum of 10,000 aircraft movements in a ministerial arrangement. I will not withdraw this scheme until the routes have actually increased and airspace capacity has been increased, so by 2023 the removal of obstacles has been introduced to allow as much as possible unhindered climbing. The combination with enhanced airspace capacity is part of that integrated airspace review. The Inspection Environment and Transport and the Military Aviation Authority are about enforcement and I'm establishing that arrangement. Mr Bruins asked about the bottlenecks at Wezep, Zwolle Stadshagen and the Vechtdal. Will the Minister take on board as a condition that an acceptable solution will be found for these cores in the context of airspace review? I am committed to finding a good solution, not only for these but also for other cores where there are problems. After all, one of the main objectives of this airspace review is to reduce ground discomfort. I cannot yet anticipate what exactly is coming out of that, but you can be sure that we will make the most of it. Mr Bruins and Mr Paternotte have still faded or fly out via IJsselmeerroutes is a possibility. Can the DOD investigate that in conjunction with civil aviation? I have already shared with you the reasons why this cannot be done now, but we are obviously going to look at different variants in the airspace review. Then it will also be considered whether flying out via IJsselmeerroutes would be possible in another situation. One more question from Mr Bruins, which I might also be able to answer. Why is the entire EIA based on the B+ routes? 'Cause they might get out after 2023. The EIA is not only based on the B+. The actualisation of the EIA also shows the effects of the local loops. What will be the significance of the airspace review for those connecting routes or B+ has yet to be considered. If changes were to occur again, we will, of course, also see what environmental impact this has. During the airspace review, all variants can be looked at again, as I said. In advance, the B+ routes are not a preliminary point of departure. If there are better options, we will definitely consider them. Mr. Chairman. Well, I guess I'm out of questions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u288	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Defence. Oh, Mr Paternotte had another question. Apologies. Then I'll go back to the minister. I promised you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u289	I see there are more interested. The Minister said on the question of what low-flying routes actually mean, that there is no such thing as a low-flying route, but a lower-flying one where you have to stay in order not to enter the airspace of Schiphol traffic. I understand. But if we put an end to that situation, then you will be in a higher airspace, and that airspace is indeed separated on the basis of a certain height. Then it should be possible to define what it means, if we do not have to stay in that low airspace, in number of meters?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u290	I think the most important obstacle there is is to fly under Schiphol traffic. That's where you'll be after that reclassification. That's also the difference. Then the speciality of Lelystad Airport expires, namely that you must continue to fly under the Schiphol traffic.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u291	And this creates a new minimum flight altitude?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u292	Well, as is the case everywhere. The exceptional situation that you are pushed down because you have to stay under that other air traffic, is then fortunately gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u293	There were still a lot of answers at the end. Thank you for that. It's nice that the flying out of the IJsselmeer is going to be watched. Is the Minister also prepared to consider, in this context, whether the non-interference requirement could lapse in the new situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u294	I can consider everything, but I can't give you any guarantees that it'll work. But I'd be happy to consider something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u295	That's enough for now, because that was one that has been rock solid so far. When everything is possible, it is good that all options are really open. Thank you for the answer on the B+ routes, that it may just be so that after reclassifications there are much more favourable options, so that the Veluwenars are not stuck every day. The question on the limitation to 10,000 flights has not yet been answered. There are no more than 10,000 flights available as long as airspace has not been revised, but because the airspace review is not a single moment but a whole process, it is theoretically conceivable that, when certain aspects of the airspace review are over, more than 10,000 flights can be adjusted but the low flight routes are not yet gone. Can the Minister rule out the possibility that such a situation would arise?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u296	I thought I'd just answered that question, but maybe I could do even better. Those 10,000 flights I set out in a ministerial arrangement. I have also indicated that I will not withdraw this scheme until the routes have increased and the airspace capacity has increased. I think that's the way it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u297	If this had already been said, it would be my fault. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u298	I still have a lot of questions, starting with the definition of the low flight routes and what this really means. The minister's waltzing over it a little bit. She says: that's impossible to define, but it actually means that you don't have to go under the Schiphol traffic anymore; that's pretty much the definition we're holding. But of course it is important that all those people who are about to present their views on the airport decision know and understand what it means for their municipality. The people in Nijbroek, Nunspeet, Wezep or Klarenbeek now all have about how high they come across with a low-flying route, but what's it going to be? What clarity can the Minister give these people about what it certainly means to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u299	With regard to the short-term, they have the certainty that it will at least not be lower than that determined in the EIA for the local loops. So it is likely to be much higher in practice. Then we can give the guarantee that it will be lifted and they will no longer have to pass under the Schiphol traffic. And if we have an entire airspace review, I don't know... We even question the B+ route and have the IJsselmeer hanging over the table again. I cannot anticipate that, but we are sure that the exceptional situation of two types of air traffic will end, forcing Lelystad air traffic to remain under the traffic of Schiphol. I don't even know who coined the term first, but someone once described it as a "low flight route" because it's lower than the Schiphol Routes. You're sure this will end at some point, but it's not a legal term; someone has ever described it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u300	Last question, Mrs Kröger. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u301	Mr President, I have been counting and I think I have two more questions. I hear the Minister say a lot of things and say: it means above all that it is not lower than Schiphol traffic. I agree with Mr Paternotte's conclusion that it may therefore mean that the whole thing is going down, or that it is still completely unclear how it will be after the reclassification of airspace. However, that is not what my last question was about. My final question was about the great uncertainty, uncertainty that is still there about that experience flight. Residents have made it clear with a number of experts in a number of reports that it is very unlikely that you will take some measurements that are all above average, and that this says something about how good that model is. The minister says I've made it look like experts, it doesn't add up. The residents say it is true and have good arguments for it. I therefore ask the Minister once again whether she would not like to ask EASA for a second opinion on the findings and investigations of the residents. If the Minister is so sure of her case, let us get this out of the way in a second opinion from EASA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u302	I understand from the Chamber that there will be another separate debate on the experience flight. Oh, you don't? Then there is no debate. 'Cause I heard someone say something like that later. I was thinking, "Hey, I didn't know that. However, I would suggest that we re-examine our response to the criticism of the residents' organisations in writing for you. I think this might be the most appropriate way. Otherwise we will end up here in very technical discussions on matters which I have already tried to answer. Let us make it clear to you in a letter as soon as possible what our reaction is to the criticism of the population groups. I think that's the easiest thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u303	Last question, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u304	Then there is the final question, which I believe was the first question that started the debate today. Before this debate began, we read in several newspaper reports that the Minister considered it difficult to open by 2020. What are the chances that Lelystad Airport will open in 2020? I'd like a reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u305	I'm not an expert on probability. I've indicated that it's getting harder and harder. Of course it is, but there is still a chance. And I'm doing the best I can for that. Of course, it also depends on whether or not I find a solution in Brussels and whether or not I find a solution in the short term. So I can't answer that any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u306	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u307	Mr President, you looked very closely at me that I had to be brief. So I'm gonna try that, too. Mr Bruins reminded us that on 28 September 2017 we had an explicit debate in this Chamber on Lelystad and the airspace review. In the meantime we are a year further and in the meantime a lot has happened. The Minister has already indicated that there is a steering committee and a programme team. Mr Van Dijk has asked whether the DOD has been committed. Absolutely, because we're doing this to each other. If we are not in a position to define both civilian needs and military needs, then we will not achieve a new comprehensive redesign of airspace. Over the past 50 years it has grown, perhaps organic, as it is so beautifully called, but we can see that there is an acute need from the civilian side but also from the military side. That has nothing to do with ambition, but with security. Defense is in charge of constitutional duties. We must therefore protect the Netherlands. This means that we must not only ensure that we do not have strange aircraft flying into the airspace but also, above all, that we can practice in the Netherlands to ensure that our soldiers are ready when they are deployed or when they have to carry out tasks in the Netherlands. Last summer, for example, you could see that the Defense has been involved in the drought, for example, in the deployment of the Chinook. These are specific tasks that the DOD also has and which we want to continue to do. So it's really a co-production. This is also reflected in the way in which we work together on air traffic control. We sent you a letter yesterday in which we also reported it. We are, as it is so beautifully called, colloqued at Schiphol Airport but we are seeing if we can come to a joint organization. If you want to have guaranteed capacity, both civil and military, you have to deal with it and it will have to be controlled by one organisation. So that's what we're definitely looking at. I would like to comment on a number of very specific questions. Mr Dijkstra asked what exactly does the development of defence mean. I can already see Mr Stoffer, who is one of the few people in this Chamber who is also clearly conducting the defence debates with the Minister and myself. We can see, of course, that with the extra 1.5 billion we have been able to achieve a number of things. If you look at what is needed to meet the NATO standard, we also see that more steps are needed. Last Friday, we also sent you a letter on what the priorities are from the Defence Department when it comes to the capabilities that need to be deployed. That also means something about Mr Dijkstra's efforts from the Defence Department. This does not mean that we will need a larger part of the airspace, for example when it comes to the F-35, but more intensive use. So you need to see it that way. The arrival of the F-35 also means that, in response to Mr Graus's question, he asked what that means, rather, a wider use of airspace, because the F-35 can do more. There are more sensors on it, so that also means that we can do our exercises in a different way. We can practice a number of things both on land and at sea at the same time. This also means that you need a wider use of airspace. But the arrival of more F-35s than the 37 ordered does not mean that more airspace use is needed but that more intensive use of airspace is necessary. So we're looking at it. We are also very much looking at the Reapers, which Mr Dijkstra also asked for. I am also saying this in connection with Mr Paternotte's question, which asked what is happening internationally and who I am talking to. We have been to Italy, Sweden, the United Kingdom, Belgium and Germany over the past period to look at how they have integrated both civilian airspace use and military airspace use. So how can you make capacities available faster? And what is the precondition for that? We really do that to get best practice together. In the coming week, our people will be sitting with Germany again to see what is necessary. Last week, I sat around the table with the German Secretary of State, Mr Zimmer, to specifically address this issue again. Because, as you yourself know, it would be very nice if we could come together with the neighbouring countries to set up joint training areas. But it's not like we need it. I hope so, but apart from that, we in the Netherlands will simply have to come to a redesign of airspace. Preferably abroad, but if we can't, we will have to make a decision with each other here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u308	I'm just trying to figure it out. I don't know much about flying, but I do know a little bit about asphalt. The Secretary of State has just said that if we get more F-35s, that is what we want as SGP, but of course that is not what we are going to need more airspace in this debate, but more intensive use of it. What if I cross-reference that with a freeway? If we let more cars drive over it, at some point things will get stuck. Then you'll eventually need more asphalt. Is that completely different in the airspace? Or do I really not get it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u309	It's about the area. So the area isn't getting any bigger. When the F-35 arrives, there is a need for a larger area, because other exercises can be done. The F-35 can do much more than the F-16. But if you put more F-35s into an airspace, it's not like your airspace area's gonna get bigger. You will only use it more intensively, because you have more planes that you can also use in the Netherlands. But there will be no traffic jams in the air when it comes to the F-35, because then we will have to buy a lot of them, and I do not see that happening for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u310	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u311	I know, by the way, that Mr Stoffer is keen to do so. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Stoffer would also have asked to reflect on the statement of Defence at the technical briefing that enough has been handed in. That is what Mr Stoffer said. That is where it is intended that, in recent years, the growth of civil aviation, and unfortunately also the shrinkage of defence, has meant that airspace has been surrendered in that sense. But the Defence Department is very aware of the fact that I was also talking about the need for the training areas in view of the security situation. We are also looking at the airspace needs of Defence in good consultation; now, but also towards the future. We are also asking the same question to civilian airspace users. Then we can put these two things next to each other to look at what that means now, but above all towards the future, because we also want a robust system for the reclassification of airspace. I spoke about the F-35 and also about the unmanned systems, which Mr Dijkstra asked for. I also had the question about the F-35. I think I have also answered Mr Paternotte's question on international cooperation. Then there were two questions from Mr Dijkstra. In addition to Mr Bruins, Mr Paternotte had indeed asked about the Wadden Sea and the IJsselmeer. I think the Minister has also answered that. However, I would like to make the point that you will be flying over Natura 2000 sites, so you will have to weigh together what weighs more. Of course, we look at everything. Mr Dijkstra rightly referred to the plans for wind at sea and windmills as a point of interest. As a Defense Department, we have three training areas over the Wadden Sea. Those are necessary. Last week, I think, a motion was tabled to ask if we would like to take a broader look. We do, but training areas are and will remain necessary for the defence industry. It's not that easy to just move it. We shall return to it in response to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u312	I suggest that you also answer Mr Dijkstra's other question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u313	Mr Dijkstra asked a question about airport De Peel. I believe that Mr Van Raan took part in the debate on the military airport decisions. Some of them have been taken, but some of them are lagging behind. The Chamber will be informed. This concerns, for example, Gilze-Rijen and De Kooy. Mr Van Raan nods. De Peel is still one of our military airports and we will have to include them in the whole revision of airport decisions. We have said that we must first consider what is necessary. We'll take De Peel Air Base into the airspace reclassification, but there are no concrete effects yet. It is a military airport that we would like to maintain, but we do need to see what we are going to do with it under what conditions and what that means.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u314	On that last point: it is important, I think, that you keep those options open, because starting a new airport does not happen as quickly in the Netherlands, as we have understood. I asked crazy about wind at sea. We are not going through slaloms between the wind farms, I suppose, but you do see enormous pressure on the sea, where all kinds of activities take place. I think it's important that we really have enough room for the DOD. It must never, never be the case that we cannot carry out the constitutional tasks properly. Can you go into that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u315	Yes. Of course, it cannot be that the F-35 has to shave between the windmills, as Mr Dijkstra described it. The question is also whether that is justified at all, to be honest. In addition, it is also about shooting exercises, both of the Navy at sea and of the Army on land. In this way, airspace needs from the Defense Department are also defined. We have not only looked at the here and now, but also at the future. We've been looking into what additional investments are needed from the Defense Department. These are, of course, always political decisions. We've been thinking in scenarios. Imagine growing, having more F-35s: what does that mean? What does it mean if you step up firepower on land or at sea, as it is called so beautifully, in the light of the constitutional task we have, as Mr Dijkstra defined it? We look at it in that connection. I think that is really the profit of the cooperation we have started over the past year. This is now fully approached and not separately from two different departments. I think we can find each other both departmental and executive and put our hands on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u316	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u317	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their answers. It is nice to see the civil branch and the military branch together here, because we only have one airspace and we have to do it with it. We have received many and good answers. It is good to hear that the limit of 10,000 flight movements remains for Lelystad until aircraft can actually cross. I needed that clarity. It is also good to hear that the B+ routes are not a law of Meden and Persians, but that, once the airspace review is in place, everything is possible and also the IJsselmeer route can be viewed further without a non-interference requirement. It is also good to hear that the Minister still sees opportunities to regulate and ensure that there will be no autonomous growth of Lelystad Airport. I also look forward to the further homework that the Minister will be doing there. Mr. Chairman. Then I have two more motions to conclude with. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it was already found in 2008 that an airspace review is necessary to allow Lelystad Airport to operate to its full extent;]] [[Considering that the Government intends to open Lelystad Airport before the full implementation of the airspace review;]] [[calls on the Government to make maximum use of the airspace review process and not to agree to the opening of Lelystad Airport until it is clear that no further low-flight routes will be required by 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins, Mr Paternotte and Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-553]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u318	My second motion, Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Lelystad Airport would initially open in 2018;]] [[Considering that Lelystad Airport will certainly not open before 2020 and that the number of flight movements up to 2023 will also be substantially lower than originally envisaged;]] [[calls on the government to work together with the province and municipality to seek additional economic incentives for Lelystad and its surroundings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Paternotte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-554]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u319	That's not for the microphone, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u320	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u321	Mr. Chairman. I'm speeding up. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Safety Research Council states that the further growth of Schiphol airport could jeopardise safety over 480,000 flight movements per year;]] [[noting that the airspace linked to Schiphol is a large part of the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the opening of Lelystad Airport prior to the completion of the airspace review could lead to additional safety risks, inter alia, as low flight routes are not excluded;]] [[Calls on the Government to await the completion of the reclassification of airspace in 2023 before any further work is carried out on the opening of Lelystad Airport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the aviation sector contributed to the response of Parliamentary questions and other letters of formal notice;]] [[calls on the Government to exclude the aviation sector from taking part in the reply to parliamentary questions and letters of formal notice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that everything must be done to limit global warming;]] [[noting that the objective of the airspace review is to "enlarge civilian and military capacity in airspace";]] [[noting that the objective of the airspace review is also "sustainability: reducing the impact of flight routes on the environment (noise, CO and (ultra) fine dust);]] [[Considering that, within the current technical possibilities, the capacity objective and the sustainability objective do not go hand in hand and could thereby jeopardise the objective of the Paris Agreement;]] [[calls on the Government to make explicit the objective of the Paris Agreement as the starting point for the airspace review,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Laçin and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-555]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-556]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-557]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u322	I'm about to make it, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that aviation is a highly polluting sector;]] [[noting that the international community considers it an objective to limit global warming to 1.5°C;]] [[noting that the aviation sector's sustainability plans are insufficient to meet this objective;]] [[Whereas, as a result of this 1.5°C objective, aviation will have to shrink and the opening of Lelystad Airport for holiday flights is therefore unnecessary;]] [[Whereas the opening of Lelystad Airport will further improve the living environment, including due to the emission of harmful substances and noise;]] [[noting that safety is at stake due to the high number of flights;]] [[calls on the Government to cancel the planned opening of Lelystad Airport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-558]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u323	Okay, one more. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that every effort must be made to limit global warming to a maximum of 1,5°C;]] [[calls on the Government to make the 1.5°C objective explicitly the starting point for the airspace review,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-559]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u324	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u325	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Remco Dijkstra on behalf of the VVD. No, Mr. Van Raan! You really shouldn't be in the "K" section.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u326	Did he want to get an autograph or something?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u327	Well!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u328	Okay. Mr. Chairman. We have talked about an important topic, namely the reclassification and Lelystad Airport, which many people have come for. Freight, night, nitrogen, I think we treated it really well. Three things are important for the opening of Lelystad Airport, including the environmental impact assessment we have done. There must be a traffic distribution rule or some kind of market approach. I'm not really black and white in that. We're open to it. Because if you can't do it the way you want it, you should also see what can be done with our European friends and, of course, with the airport decision. I hope that we will still be able to move towards 2020. That's what we're really trying to do. We take the final blow, of course, after the Council of State has provided us with advice, including on the airport decision. We have had a number of commitments about the routes, which I welcome. This was also the result of the motion I tabled together with the CDA at the time. I am very curious to see what the starting decision means for the routes above the Veluwe and Overijssel. And then... Now I can't read it myself. Oh, yeah, it's about redistribution. I think there should be as few demands in advance as possible. As a VVD, we are confident that air traffic controllers are aware of the urgency. You're both aware of that, too. That applies to all those involved. The more demands you make there, the more complicated the puzzle becomes. That also slows down, and that would be a shame. I thank the Secretary of State and the Minister. I look forward to the next progress report on airspace reclassification, which we receive every six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u329	It's a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u330	Yeah, and I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u331	One short question, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u332	Mr Dijkstra has also experienced the whole debate. He says he's hoping it'll work out by 2020. The minister says it's going to be very difficult, but there's a small chance. What is Mr Dijkstra's view of the possibility that Lelystad Airport will open in 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u333	That's another prophecy at the end of the night. Tough! Tough! It's gonna be tough, but we're gonna have to do everything we can. We're here to solve problems. I hope it really works. I also believe that it will be possible for the Minister to have a traffic distribution rule quickly, with all her wisdom and with all the officials' wisdom, and if we are in good contact with Brussels, because Brussels must also indicate what we have to comply with. They can't just shoot it without telling themselves what they can do. If we can put that here in the consultation towards airlines, we'll be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u334	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u335	So I have faith in it and we strive for it. But guarantees are only on a vacuum cleaner, I understood from our foreman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u336	Oh, okay. I call Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u337	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna start soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas it is a condition for Lelystad Airport that there will be no autonomous growth;]] [[calls on the Government to present it first to the Chamber for discussion before the new traffic distribution rule is sent to Brussels for notification,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas there is great social unrest about the plans for Lelystad Airport;]] [[noting that there is a major difference between the noise levels of the flight and the calculations in the environmental impact assessment, which raises serious doubts about the EIA;]] [[noting that citizens living under the low-flying routes are not given any certainty as to how much higher is going to be flown;]] [[noting that there is no legal guarantee for the initial objective of turning Lelystad Airport into a landing airport;]] [[calls on the Government to include a break in the plans for Lelystad Airport until both the airspace reclassification and the Aviation Note, including the policy to mitigate the health and climate impacts of aviation, have been completed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the planned reclassification of airspace affects flight routes through Dutch airspace and routes to and from airports;]] [[Whereas this affects the distances, altitudes and areas flown and therefore affects emissions of CO and harmful substances and noise;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan for the reclassification of airspace so that the environmental impact of the proposed changes is properly assessed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas there is no legal guarantee to turn Lelystad Airport into an overflow airport where there is no autonomous growth;]] [[whereas this is explicitly the objective of Lelystad Airport;]] [[refers to the airport decision not to treat Lelystad Airport until the exclusion of autonomous growth at Lelystad Airport is legally established,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that significant differences have been demonstrated between the noise levels measured during the flight of experience and the calculated noise levels in the EIA;]] [[Whereas this discrepancy is causing great unrest among residents and has produced a report on the noise measurements of the experience flight;]] [[calls on the Government to request a validation of the report on the findings of the experience flight to EASA and to share it with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-560]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Laçin, Mr Van Raan and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-561]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Van Raan, Mr Laçin and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-562]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Laçin, Mr Van Raan and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-563]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-564]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u338	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u339	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. I call Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA. No, it simply should not be during the debate that consultations are being held with the cabinet. There is a separation of powers and we must respect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u340	And so it is, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u341	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u342	We all have to listen to the President, even tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u343	Where are you going, Mr. Graus?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u344	I'm gonna put a chair here for Box K.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u345	Or a fence a little around the cabinet. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u346	Thank you, Mr President, and also thank you for the answers given by the Secretary of State and the Minister. I think we have had a good debate with a lot of questions "what if," "if" and predictions. Predictions are difficult to give at the moment, because everything is connected in the aviation debate. I can at least conclude tonight that we're not here yet. Maybe we're a long way from here. I think it is good that today the Minister has removed the uncertainty as to how Lelystad's overflow function should be and that there should be no autonomous growth. I think the Minister has clarified this evening, so I appreciate that. I think that this debate needs us to stay very clear and honest and also to make good agreements with support. One important point that could be a game changer in bad Dutch in this debate is when it is possible to reach a polder-Schiphol agreement around Schiphol with the residents and all parties. If we come to that, perhaps we should also talk a little more about the continuation of Lelystad. Of course that has everything to do with each other, because you can also hear sounds from Schiphol and Noord-Holland: we need Lelystad for that overflow function. The support that can be given there may change this discussion. I'd like to leave it at that. To be original during this debate, I have no motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u347	I'd be fine with that. Mr Remco Dijkstra, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u348	That is indeed worth a compliment. I would like to remind Mr Van Dijk of his own website, the website of the PvdA, about his position on Lelystad. If you change your point of view, you also need to change that website for a while, because there you are a great supporter of expanding Lelystad Airport for holiday travel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u349	Ah, Mr. Dijkstra would like the...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u350	In the debate I got a bit of a different impression, but I am glad that it looks good on the website.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u351	This is evidence of Mr Dijkstra's great class, a point of substance. I believe that we had this debate in exactly the same way last year: have a look at the website. But since last year Mr Dijkstra knows where the Labour Party stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u352	Mrs Kröger, a brief comment or question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u353	It's an enlightening question for me. Mr Van Dijk has just outlined how these two discussions on Schiphol and Lelystad are interrelated. Can he outline a little more of what he is referring to and what that means for this debate on Lelystad?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u354	There is currently a discussion around Schiphol, with all residents and parties and of course with Schiphol itself and the companies. It's about what's left at Schiphol. I think it would be very helpful if we came up with a common plan there. Of course, that also has consequences for what we need to do with Lelystad, because that has an overlap function. You are aware of the Labour Party's attitude: we do not want Lelystad until there is a reclassification of airspace. But of course it has everything to do with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u355	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Amhaouch on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u356	Mr. Chairman. I thought, "The chair stays so high, we can talk a little on level." But now it's going down. Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their reply. I think it is very good to see these two rulers here, because the reclassification of the airspace that everyone is longing for, which we have been working on for years, can only succeed if both rulers and the people around them pull up together and show commitment. So thank you for that and also very good luck with that reclassification, because it is very important. Then there is another important point. We've always set three frameworks, including for Lelystad. One is a good E.R., two is that the low-fly routes have to disappear and three is of course the landing for Schiphol to Lelystad. Let me come back to that E.R. because we forget that after all the fuss, everything that happened and all the input from the residents has been approved. But there was also an opinion from the Commission on this subject. I made a motion on that once. He did not make it in the Chamber then, because a number of parties I do not mention, because I understand that I then provoked them who did not support it, but the content is still important. The Commission...................................................................................................... There were a number of recommendations and we asked for them to be adopted. The question to the Minister is whether she can agree to inform us about the progress of these opinions. She once said in an AO that she will succeed, so I ask her to communicate with the Chamber about that. It would be very nice if she would communicate these opinions with the Chamber, but also with the people concerned. I have already said, also in my introduction I have taken Aalsmeer as an example of how complex the issue of aviation is. It's not that black and white. On the one hand, people attach importance to it, because there must be bread on the shelf and economic development, and at the same time it is often the same people who experience nuisance from night flights or other flights. That's what you see in this room. I hope that we can continue to have these debates in this Chamber. It's not always a nice story we bring, but we try to tell an honest story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u357	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. Then Mr Laçin on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u358	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the end, I thought it was a curious debate. Friday there will be a lot of fuss after a letter from the Minister. Then we are not really getting any answers here about what is meant in that letter. She's working on the same assignment, but what's in the letter doesn't really ring back in the answers. That is why, on the issue of autonomous growth and freight, I do not want the Minister's opinion, but a ruling from the Chamber. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[does not allow autonomous growth and cargo at Lelystad Airport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin, Mr Kröger, Mr Stoffer and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-565]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u359	Then there is my second motion, on the withdrawal of the VVR and the trial before us. There's gonna be a new traffic distribution rule. It has to go back to Brussels and that will take months again. I believe that we, as a Chamber, have said that the Minister has said from the outset that care and transparency go for speed. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister withdrew the traffic distribution rule (VVR) because there were sufficient indications that the European Commission would reject the VVR;]] [[noting that the Minister is working on a new proposal to the European Commission;]] [[noting that the Minister is working on the new proposal with an unchanged mandate;]] [[whereas the European Commission does not accept that Lelystad Airport will become an airport at Schiphol Airport;]] [[Whereas due diligence and transparency have been expressed on several occasions for speed;]] [[considers that a viable traffic distribution rule requires time;]] [[calls on the Government to postpone the extension of Lelystad Airport until airspace has been reorganised and, in the meantime, to work carefully and transparently on a new traffic distribution rule,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin, Mr Kröger and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-566]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u360	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u361	I thought maybe you'd like to drop off your phone, too. Thank you. Finally, Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u362	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to the Secretary of State and the Minister for the comprehensive reply. Thank you also to the officials of the Ministries of Defence and Infrastructure and Water State for their contribution. And, of course, especially thanks to the people in the public gallery who have followed the whole debate. You belong to a select minority. We appreciate it very much. The Netherlands is going to build a new airspace for the first time in history. For a country that specializes in every square centimetre to make the most of it, that is a project that we expect incredibly much from. We understand that this also means pressure for both regiments. Of course, we'd like to help them with that. Then when it comes to Lelystad an sich. It has also occasionally been about the airport decision. We'll meet again tomorrow morning at the procedural meeting. I believe that we should decide to park the airport decision now, because we need to clarify the selectivity policy first. We can do that tomorrow. For now, looking back on the debate, I have received a commitment from the Minister on a number of issues, such as cargo, and a clear response. When it comes to flying altitudes, of course, the point that applies above Lelystad flight level 70, or 2.1 kilometers. Up there is Schiphol traffic. That is the problem that we need to resolve with the reclassification. That's what the minister actually says. This means, in concrete terms, that there will also be improvement. I just really think it would be good if we were to clarify that. I also suspect it's possible. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the House of Representatives requested by the Amhaouch/Remco Dijkstra motion to ensure that low-flying routes from Lelystad Airport will disappear from 1 January 2023;]] [[whereas it is important for the support base for Lelystad Airport to clarify exactly what that means;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber, for the purposes of decision-making on Lelystad Airport, of the precise nature of the implementation of the above-mentioned motion for residents under the temporary flight routes to reclassification of airspace, including the designation of a lower limit of flight altitude (not related to climbing or descending traffic),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-567]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u363	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u364	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall be passing through the motions one by one, but Mr Amhaouch also asked what we were going to do with the Commission's recommendations for the Environment Committee. I think it is too far-reaching to go all the way, but I would like to tell you that we are still informing you about how we dealt with it. Then I'll get to the motions. The Bruins motion c.s. in piece No. 553 calls on the Government to make maximum use of the airspace review process and not to agree to the opening of Lelystad Airport until it is clear that no further low-flight routes will be required by 2023. If I can read it in such a way that your commitment is that we are going to clarify this in the initial decision, then I could give that judgment to the Chamber. I cannot, of course, have worked out everything to three decimal places, because we cannot yet take that step in the starting decision. But if I can read her like that, I can give her judgment room. The Bruins/Paternotte motion in part No. 554 asks the government to work together with the province and municipality to find additional economic incentives for Lelystad and its surroundings, as they have been waiting a little longer for the airport to open. I am, of course, the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State. I am not talking about economic impulses, so I would like to bring this to the attention of the Ministry of EZK and the colleagues there. If you will allow me to carry out the motion in such a way that I refer you to it and bring it to your attention, that seems to me to be the best solution, because I am not on my own.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u365	It is very nice that the Minister wishes to convey the message. Does that give the motion judgment room?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u366	No, I really need to leave that to EZK's colleague. I would like to do it in such a way that I draw attention to that. Then perhaps you could submit her there again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u367	Then I'll keep her on and wait for a response from a colleague from the cabinet. That may be the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, but the cabinet itself has to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u368	I also think that might be a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u369	Then I'll arrest her and expect a message from the cabinet about who comes with a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u370	So we are not going to vote on that on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u371	The Van Raan c.s. motion. in piece No. 555 calls on the government to await the completion of the reclassification before any further work at Lelystad Airport is carried out. It will not surprise Mr Van Raan that I betrayed him. Then I come to the Van Raan/Laçin motion on item No. 556. Well, let's not put any more qualification into that, but at least she's unnecessary. The motion calls on the government to exclude the aviation sector from taking part in the reply to parliamentary questions and letters of inquiry. It's unnecessary, so I'm gonna tip her off. The Van Raan/Kröger motion in part No. 557 calls on the Government to make explicit the objective of the Paris Agreement as the starting point for the airspace review. We have had ample exchanges of views on this in the debate, so I would advise against it. The Van Raan motion in part No. 558 requests the government to cancel the planned opening of Lelystad Airport. It will be clear that I also betrayed them. The Van Raan motion in part No. 559 calls on the government to make the 1.5°C objective an explicit starting point. That's the same story, so it's not recommended. The Kröger motion in part No. 560 calls on the Government to present it first to the Chamber for discussion before the new VVR is sent to Brussels for notification. I also exchanged that in the debate. When the time comes, I will follow the same procedure as the previous VVR, so I will also advise against it. The Kröger c.s. motion in piece No. 561 calls on the government to include a break in the plans for Lelystad Airport until both the airspace reclassification and the Aviation Note have been completed. You won't be surprised that I betrayed them, too. The Kröger c.s. motion in piece No. 562 calls on the Government to draw up a PlanMER for the reclassification of airspace. I have already indicated in the debate that I have not yet made that choice. So I'm not saying no, but I'm not saying yes. I would therefore ask you to hold this motion until we take the next step in this reclassification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u372	And Mrs. Kröger wasn't allowed to hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u373	Then I don't want to anticipate that choice. Then I would dissuade the motion for this moment, because I find her untimely. The motion in part No. 563, also from Mrs Kröger, states that the Lelystad Airport decision is not dealt with until the exclusion of autonomous growth is legally established. Of course, that is not addressed to the government. It is up to your Chamber to make its own judgment; I am not about that. The motion in part No. However, 564 by Mrs Kröger is addressed to me and asks the government to ask EASA for a validation of the report on the findings of the experience flight. I would like to discourage this motion, because the legal standards have been correctly portrayed. We have already promised a programme on measuring aircraft noise in relation to calculation. Four agencies, RIVM, NLR and DGMR's second opinion, have already checked all of this. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u374	I'm really sorry. The Minister is trying to restore confidence; at least that is what she says all the time. There are neighbors who have a lot of concerns, who have really sorted out everything about the experience flight in detail and who have a very strong story. In fact, they are asking whether an agency such as EASA can give a second opinion on this. That is also a way of resolving this discussion. I think I would find the Minister's wisdom if she did honour this request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u375	I have, however, promised Mrs Kröger a response to the criticism of the local people. You may be able to hold the motion until you have been able to take note of it and then consider it again, but otherwise I would advise against the motion at this time. The motion in part No. 565 is another one who pronounces something that does not contain a call or anything else for the cabinet. The motion in part No. Mr Laçin asked the government to postpone the extension of Lelystad until the airspace had been reorganised. For that reason, I will discourage that motion. The motion in part No. 567 by Mr Paternotte and calls on the Government to inform the Chamber, for the purpose of the decision on Lelystad Airport, of the precise nature of the implementation of this motion for residents under the temporary routes of flight, to designate a lower limit of altitude, not relating to climbing or descending traffic. This is very much in the details, but I would like to ask Mr Paternotte in general to hold the motion until the start decision that we would like to present to you in Q1 or at most in the transition to Q2, because we will of course describe that clarity as detailed as possible. If you are asking exactly how many meters are involved and so on, I simply cannot say yet, but we can give a lot more clarity in the initial decision. If you wish to continue the motion until then, you can therefore assess whether it is sufficiently clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u376	It's almost Christmas!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u377	Mr Graus starts again that it is almost Christmas, but this is an important point in substance for me. I'd like to hold the motion in itself, but you were talking about Q1 or early Q2. I ask this, of course, for the decision on Lelystad Airport at the time when we are finally discussing the airport decision in the Chamber. So my question is whether that decision will be taken before then. Is that in the time before that? 'Cause I'd like to keep the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u378	Of course, it's up to you when you treat something. I can tell you when we will come up with this decision. I would ask you to hold the motion until then. If you wish to take a different decision on something earlier, you can put this motion to the vote, I would think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u379	Yes. Mr Paternotte, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u380	You said Q1, by Q2.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u381	Well, the transition to Q2. We're assuming Q1, but I don't want to pin myself on whether it's, so to speak, March 31 or April 12th. It will not be until June, because our entire timetable will be confused.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u382	If you promise me it'll be in the first four months of next year, I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u383	Fine, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u384	At the request of Mr Paternotte, I propose his motion (31936), No. (Parliament adopted the resolution) That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u385	Then I was through it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u386	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-18-tweedekamer-31.u387	I thank the Minister. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery, the people who have followed this debate in a different way and the staff. We shall be voting on the motions tabled next Thursday.
