ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the debate on the Dutch economy after the Brexit debate. I welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. There are six speakers. There's a message of obstruction from Mrs Leijten of the SP. Everyone has four minutes' speaking time. I'd like to meet with you two interruptions in two. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66, who has also requested this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Less than a year from now, that's it. Then the Brexit is probably a fact, unfortunately. "Unfortunately," I say, because no one is the winner at Brexit. Europe is a little smaller, the Netherlands is losing an economic ally and the British themselves are the biggest losers, who are incredibly upset: not the promised land but instead a journey through the desert. The Brexiteers would restore British sovereignty. £350 million a week would go to care at once, British business would come out stronger and so on with empty promises that were pawned in Dutch by colleagues on the far right flank. We now know that the British have only one concrete result: their passport goes from red to blue, only it is produced by a French company. That irony is not a reason for harm, because on the continent the Netherlands suffers more from the Brexit than any other country. We have recently learned what Prime Minister May is committed to, namely a hard Brexit: from the internal market, from the customs union. For the Netherlands, it is 40 billion in exports, 200,000 jobs and, for example, 20,000 containers of flowers that pass through the North Sea every year and may cost €190 per shipment. Or maybe €500 will have to be paid for registration, packaging and classification for a container of paint that Akzo exports. Fruit and vegetables that have to dwell on the border. That's where the Brexit gets jobs, at the border. We are already in the process of hiring hundreds of new customs officers. These effects are also described by the cabinet in the letters. But is the urgency widely recognized? On the website of the Entrepreneur's Square, the window for entrepreneurs of Economic Affairs, it says with cow letters that the Brexit has no impact on Dutch companies in the short term. In our view, this is contrary to the State Secretary's insistence on companies to take precautions in time, so please respond to this. Mr. Chairman. There's another side too. We can reduce the economic damage by taking advantage of the opportunities offered by Brexit, namely the opportunities for new jobs. The European Medicines Agency has already gone to Amsterdam, Unilever stays in Rotterdam, but the Netherlands is not a frontrunner. The NFIA states that out of more than 200 interested companies, around 8,5% of them actually opt for the Netherlands. For financial institutions, the Netherlands is slightly less attractive because of Europe's strictest bonus rules, even though we are still in the top ten. The high-tech companies, agrofood, the automotive sector, the SMEs who want good English spoken in their company, must be able to find the Netherlands. Entrepreneurial Netherlands announced today that they want an action plan of cabinet and entrepreneurs together. Are the Secretary of State and the Minister open to this? There seem to be nine people in the NFIA on the Brexit file now, four of them in London. That's okay, but as far as we're concerned, there's still room for a shovel on top. So a concrete suggestion: literally putting the Netherlands in the window by opening a pop-up brexit shop in central London, with all the necessary information for entrepreneurs who want to keep in touch with the continent. At present, the focus is mainly on companies which are regulated by the EU and which have to leave the UK and non-British companies. Why not also focus on campuses of universities such as Oxford and Cambridge, who want to participate in European research? Why not focus on companies that may not have to leave, but want to leave because of access to European funding or access to the European labour market and the marketing market of 500 million Europeans?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u3	There is an interruption by Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u4	I'm a big fan of out of the box thinking, but of course a pop-up shop becomes a flop. These kinds of companies are run by people who have quite a few challenges. You have talked extensively about the challenges that exist in the Brexit framework. Do you think they have time to go shopping, go to a pop-up shop and orient themselves there? That doesn't really seem like the way to go. A lot of companies are going to suffer from the Brexit. Is it wise to put maximum effort into bringing companies from England here, while there is an enormous amount of work to be done to ensure that the damage caused by the Brexit is reduced? That is the underlying question I have here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u5	Let me start with the first question. They should not come shopping, but Mr Van der Lee will recognize that entrepreneurs see these challenges, want to meet them, because they have to. Entrepreneurs do not have that choice, and so entrepreneurs who can be oriented, as many do now, will ask themselves: how do I deal with a future in which my business is located outside the European Union? Your second question was: shouldn't we focus on limiting the effects here? I think we should definitely do that. We must prepare these entrepreneurs for a situation in which they must start exporting to a country outside the internal market. We need to prepare them for customs, classification, registration and everything that comes with it. But reducing economic damage also means that the Netherlands should not be completely behind the queue with the companies and, as far as I am concerned, also the research institutes, the universities, which would like to stay in the European Union and therefore probably leave the United Kingdom or at least open an office across the North Sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u6	I think we can argue whether the Netherlands is at the end of the line, but my point is more that the activities aimed at bringing companies to the Netherlands that are now in the UK can also directly undermine other efforts to ensure that the Brexit ends as softly as possible and that there will be as few problems as possible at our border. After all, this affects most companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u7	I really don't see that. I think the Brexit is an incredibly uncertain process because it is something the Minister and the Secretary of State also write in the letters 'British politics are extremely unstable'. So until the last moment it will be unclear what kind of Brexit we have. That remains unclear until that treaty is actually signed definitively, because cabinet members contradict each other there and because the cabinet has a very unstable position in parliament there. So no, I think it is very difficult to influence the kind of Brexit, but we can make sure that we are best prepared and that we are not completely behind the queue with companies that unfortunately will leave the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u8	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u9	Mr President, I was finished with my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u10	What a good timing for me to allow an interruption. Thank you. Then I'd like to give the floor... Oh, no, there is still an interruption by Mr Azarkan. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u11	It's always a walk, but I said yesterday: that's good for my step counter. I have a question for you anyway. I praise Mr Paternotte's creative thinking, but as Mr Van der Lee said, there are major challenges. In the study commissioned by Foreign Affairs by Kantar Public, I see and read that half of the companies doing business with the UK are not yet preparing for the Brexit. I wonder what should happen from the point of view of D66 to get these companies to work anyway. What needs to be done to get these companies to prepare for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u12	I believe that you were already in the Chamber when I dismissed the first part of my speech, which was about the companies that have to prepare themselves very well. You praised the creative thinking. Whose credit is due, it was the KLM that opened a so-called Holland pop-up shop in several cities during the New York 400 years, but at least in New York, and was able to start new scheduled services to New York. The letters we received from the Minister and the Secretary of State tell us a great deal about how to prepare these companies. I believe that the line from the cabinet should be clear: the preparation is urgently needed, because the Brexit is a great concern. When I read on entrepreneurshipplein.nl that the Brexit has no serious consequences in the short term, I think we are delivering two different messages. On the one hand, there is a clear warning that leads people to action and, on the other hand, a soothing message. I think we should draw a line. The Brexit means that entrepreneurs will have to do a lot of work. The Empire is keen to help, but in the end the entrepreneurs will have to do it themselves and redesign their processes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u13	Mr Azarkan, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u14	It's a long story you keep. I wonder what would happen if the UK were to open pop-up stores in Amsterdam, Rotterdam and The Hague to bring companies to the UK. Would that be a creative idea in your eyes, too? I have the impression, in my view, that the cabinet has made a good effort to provide information. I looked at the websites, the scan, the Brexit voucher and so on every week. I am very concerned about this, and I hope that Mr Paternotte, who shares this with me, will be able to say that a number of companies are getting their heads in the sand. The big issue is how we can get those companies that push it out for themselves informed. That's where the urgency lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u15	Clear signals from the cabinet will help in this, just as this debate will contribute to this. We have only known for a few weeks that the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom has finally opted for the hard Brexit and really wants to get out of the internal market and the customs union. We will therefore have to conclude a completely new trade agreement. That is also the only way to keep the lines somewhat open. How are we supposed to get these companies out of the sand with their heads? That's your question. By saying that very loudly to them, my answer is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u16	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u17	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing in the Chamber the consequences of the Brexit for the Dutch economy and the Dutch entrepreneurs. This is a particularly important issue for the Netherlands because, as a neighbouring country, a large trading partner and a mainport to the continent, we can be hit relatively hard by the withdrawal of the UK from the EU. The UK is the third exporting country for the Netherlands, with some 39 billion in goods and another 22 billion in services. If we make this concrete for the people at home or here in the room, we should think of food and live animals, an export of 6 billion, meat and meat products, 1.4 billion, fruit and vegetables, 2 billion, raw animal and plant products, 1.6 billion, fuel products, 3.7 billion, chemical products of all kinds, 6.7 billion, go on like this. This is a lot of money, this is a lot of products and this is a lot of jobs involved. On the other hand, about half of our exports of goods are imported from the UK. We have a very great interest in it. Mr. Chairman. The CDA is committed to ensuring that Dutch entrepreneurs suffer as little as possible from the Brexit and that the opportunities created by the Brexit are exploited. I shall deal with this today. The first important point is to have the capacity of the customs and NVWA in place in good time. We were able to read back about that in the letters. It is a good thing that the Netherlands is one of the first to recruit new people. Can the cabinet give access to the number of new people recruited and whether we are on schedule with this? Is it already known whether the lead time of training can be reduced and how employees can be deployed more quickly? One of the recommendations of KPMG's report on customs is to examine a link between the Dutch customs system and the customs system in the UK, in order to be able to automatically exchange customs data. What is the status of research into the political, technical and legal feasibility of this? What about the preparations that the British themselves are making in this area? Mr. Chairman. Then fresh produce. The CDA would like the Cabinet to make maximum efforts in Europe to make an exception for fresh products in the field of handling, so that fresh products can simply continue to be traded quickly without delays. I have just indicated that fresh products for billions alone are crossing the border. How is the cabinet going to ensure that Dutch entrepreneurs who trade fresh products by way of road, air or water brand as little as possible of the Brexit? Mr. Chairman. Then there is information to businesses, specifically SMEs. Mr Azarkan has just appointed this subject. We understand that about 30,000 companies still have no idea how to export outside the customs union. Is the customs authorities themselves prepared to give short courses and information days to SMEs? Will bodies such as banks, Chamber of Commerce and accountancy be required to actively inform SMEs about the potential consequences and impact of the Brexit? What about the announced activation tool and the regional meetings of RVO.nl and Chamber of Commerce? Will the European rules in relation to the Brexit put a lot of new regulatory pressure on SMEs? Is the Cabinet prepared to carry out an SME test on the new laws and rules in this area, in particular on the impact on implementation? We will, of course, get the European rules, but in the implementation we would like to put the SME test lab next to it. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the trade agreement. As far as the CDA is concerned, the EU must strive for the best possible trade agreement, and we must work together in Europe. Can the Cabinet give an update on what the trade agreement is going to look like? For fisheries, there is still a danger of a disaster scenario if fishermen are not allowed to enter Scottish waters. What is the state of this? We understood that there were a series of fisheries agreements concluded between the UK and the Netherlands before the UK even joined the EU in 1973. Is it correct that these treaties are still valid and remain valid? What does it say?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u18	Can you finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u19	Mr. Chairman. Finally, the opportunities of the Brexit. The Netherlands has always been innovative and should therefore be able to take advantage of opportunities created by the Brexit. The CDA is curious whether the cabinet has developed a specific policy plan to get the location climate so that companies that want to get out of the UK get to the Netherlands. Does the cabinet specifically focus on certain companies, such as ICT companies or start-ups? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u20	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Moorlag of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is sometimes said that politics has some resemblance to blood sausage: even if you are a fan of it, sometimes you don't want to know how it is produced. That certainly applies to the Brexit process, because you can only look at it with horror. Mr Paternotte also mentioned it: the British have been told that they could spend at least £350 million a month on health care and that there would be an increase in prosperity. None of that turns out to be true. The Brexit is detrimental to the British economy, to the Dutch economy, to employment and to a level playing field. Mr. Chairman. Brussels is sometimes accused of causing a great deal of bureaucracy, but now it is actually very visible how much bureaucracy Brussels takes away. If, by closing the open border, we have to recruit hundreds of new customs officials and once again the prospect is that lorry drivers will be in queues at the border, it is clear that Brussels has caused bureaucracy, but has also removed a great deal of bureaucracy. It is only 50, 60 years since smugglers and customs officials were armed and truck drivers became despondent because they were waiting for hours in long queues in front of the border. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State's letter makes it clear that a lot of efforts are being made to reduce the harmful effects on businesses. The PvdA appreciates this, but two things are important to the PvdA in this debate. One of those things is: definitely not a pop-up shop. I think that's a really bad idea. I think it's an idea with the depth of a surfboard. We have an embassy and a trading attaché in London, so I don't see what that adds. Two more important things are important to the PvdA. The first is employment. Yesterday, in Het Financieele Dagblad, there was a report that 600 jobs would be at the disposal of the fish processor or vessel owner Parivliet & Van der Plas. We must avoid that kind of harmful effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u22	I expected it: Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u23	In Mr Moorlag's speech there is very little fish between head and tail. Yes, indeed, we have an embassy, but that's a building with a big fence around it and a flag on it. That embassy does organise meetings for Dutch entrepreneurs in Great Britain. Do you not at least think that our people in Britain should be open to questions from British entrepreneurs who might want to leave that country?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u24	Yes, but then you really have to come up with a proposal that has some substance. With a pop-up shop or something like that, you just get laughed away in the UK. Honestly, if I were Brit, I'd laugh very much if something like that was located in London. Let me ask Mr Paternotte which shopping street he had thought of. It is of course important that it is not a back shop, as usually with those pop-up shops. Perhaps Mr Paternotte could elaborate that idea a little further, so I want to look at it with something more than a lazy eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u25	It's clear. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u26	I think there should also be a little implementation for the Minister and the Secretary of State. My question is, do you have a better idea? I do not hear from you any idea of putting the Netherlands in the window on the other side of the North Sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u27	I think the Netherlands is just good in the shop window. We have had a debate earlier on that the location climate for companies in the Netherlands is super; we belong to the top. That good product sells itself, I think. However, we must go to the Netherlands with the regular instruments or channels, such as embassy, trade attaché, trade missions and such activities. Employment counts for the PvdA. We want not only a soft Brexit, but a soft landing when workers lose their jobs. The PvdA calls on the directors to make a commitment to work together with the social partners to achieve an approach aimed at helping workers threatened by the Brexit with unemployment from work to work. The second point that is important for the Labour Party is the level playing field. The British must not be given any undue advantage by the Brexit, because we are given a trade agreement that undermines the standards and standards that apply at EU level, to workers' rights, to the environment and to health. We want a level playing field to be maintained. I would ask the directors to make a firm commitment to ensure that in the new trade agreements with the United Kingdom the position of workers and environmental, health and labour standards do not deteriorate. What the PvdA wants is for a new trade treaty to make firm agreements to prevent tax avoidance. Those are two essential matters for the Labour Party. We want the cabinet to be tough on that. I would ask the two leaders to make firm and unequivocal commitments in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u28	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Brexit almost only knows losers, as others have said. A lot of money, manpower and power of thought will be wasted, that's a fact. As irrational as the cause is, we have to live with it. I hope, of course, that the Brexit will be as soft as possible, but chaos, damage and also border frictions are inevitable. All we can do is anticipate and react as best we can. The KPMG report contains many sensible recommendations. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is positive about this, as is the action taken by the government at the moment. Good business information and the most efficient customs system will be crucial. I am hopeful about what the cabinet is doing at the moment, but on the other side of the canal I still see very few activities in the field of practical preparation. There is no additional customs staff and they are still working with outdated digital systems. If that limit is inevitable, it would be very good if these digital systems were up-to-date and able to communicate well with each other. My appeal to the cabinet would be to try to get a bilateral task force in advance of a fact-finding Brexit in order to get customs systems as up-to-date as possible and communicate with each other as effectively as possible. We are an important border country in the United Kingdom. There are enormous economic and social interests at stake, as others have said, so let us anticipate and react as well as possible. Much has already been done to provide information, but is the government also prepared to create a Brexit branding line at the moment when the Brexit is a fact and businesses are confronted with the fact that their products, their services or their staff linger in a no-man's-land or even disappear because there is chaos and not everything is in order? That is also a request to the government. Another aspect to which the KPMG report pays little attention is its significance in terms of sustainability, workers' rights and CSR. Mr Moorlag has already spoken about this. How do we maintain everything we have built in this area in the EU when the UK leaves the Union and perhaps competes at a price by releasing a lot of such conditions? No matter how hard the Brexit is, a trade agreement will be drawn up in a form. I hope that in this area, too, the cabinet will work to maximise the level playing field in the agreements that are to be made. In particular, I would like to ask the Minister about the consequences for the European emissions trading system. It seems a little like the UK is looking at this in the way the Swiss are doing it now. I am concerned about this, and not only me, but also many British environmental organisations because it has all kinds of implications for implementation. We already know that the ETS is not working properly. The price is too low and, unfortunately, after seven years, there has been an overall increase in CO emissions from industry in the European Union. There too there is a fairly high risk. I hope that the Minister with climate in the portfolio will do his utmost to maintain the UK's best possible commitment to the ETS in the future. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u30	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Graus of the PVV, who has also signed up for a contribution. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u31	Madam President. I think the debate is a bit premature, but I am not really the spokesman on this issue either. I am with Mr Paternotte on the committee for EZK, but I do think that this should be left with the European Affairs spokesmen. I'll tell you a little bit about it. The reports that have or have not been prepared on behalf of several ministries, including the KPMG report, are not the first to read the best ones, of course, in order to gain a better understanding of the costs for entrepreneurs as a result of Brexit. That's gonna hurt our committee. I just spoke to Mr Paternotte bilaterally because we have also had two investigations into, perhaps, the return of the guilder and the next. Mr. Paternotte promised he'd look into it, at least he didn't promise, but I assume he will. Because it turns out that there are a lot of positive things in there too. And who's gonna be right? One says that, the other says sister. The research firm says this, the other says so. You can't really make sense of it anymore, but one thing's for sure. That's what I'm gonna talk about in a minute, about how we stand in it. A good friend just whispered to me: the first investigating agency that says it's all okay, has yet to be opened. Of course, he has a very good point; let us be honest about that. What matters to us is that for 11 years now we have been holding the same argument that we are missing something in those reports. There is nothing in it about sovereignty, which is something that a lot of people still value, and the sky-high payments. Over the past 11 years, I have had many discussions with farmers, gardeners and fishermen, because they are also covered by my spokesmanship. Indeed, some farmers and fishermen say that we also have clear advantages. That is true, but I would say: you would have had it if it had remained the EEC, the European community with economic cooperation. We are also in favour of economic cooperation; all this does not change, but we should not become a province of Brussels. You have to explain to those people, because they are often ignorant, that per capita they are among the highest net contributors, but not among the highest net recipients. It's a lot of fun when they say "we get the premium and the premium," then I say, yes, but you have to look at what you've lost every year on payments. I've had the towering payments. Whatever I missed is the obstacles. Our entrepreneurs are incredibly hampered by regulations from the European Union. If we get something shoved down the throat here, the same goes for the entrepreneurs. We often have little or no influence on this. Mr. Paternotte, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u32	It's going really fast. Mr Paternotte has risen, but I do not think he is interrupting. He doesn't want to do that. So you can just move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u33	What I miss, too, is that we have sometimes asked other rulers and governments to do so, as well as a certain feeling of unease and insecurity. It is not only the feeling of insecurity, but there is also real insecurity. Unfortunately, we will see that in the future. It is a pity that I have to say that, but it is going to happen here, of course, once again, that we are facing much more misery. The results of all studies are based on worst case scenarios and gross estimates. I understand all that, because a country has never left the European Union before. It's all a cup of coffee. You can't say much or anything about it. It will have to prove who is right, the camp of, for example, Mr Paternotte or the camp I belong to. The impact on our economy and employment is difficult to estimate. I would like to point out that we must return to bilateral trade agreements, including with the United Kingdom. That will certainly work with our charming Secretary of State and possibly our king and queen and business. Finally, I would like to say that we have been known for centuries as a sympathetic trading country with top products. As Switzerland has its timepieces and Germany are bolides........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In China, they beat each other's heads for our milk powder, because of our food safety and knowledge. Those are our top products. That's not gonna change, even if there's gonna be a nexit here. People continue to want our products. We have the best entrepreneurs and the best farmers. We have everything the best of the best. That's what they're looking at. In the end, we will be able to achieve much more in the long run, and I am firmly convinced that this will also apply to the security and freedom of our citizens and the maintenance of the welfare state, which is becoming untenable. It's better to make sure of that, too. That's what we have to assume. I've spoken. I'll leave it at that. A blessed evening. Just a little domestic thing: I'm not gonna be here all night.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u34	You're not here all night?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u35	No, I'm not here all night. I'm not filing a motion either. I have to do something for the animals of the Oostvaardersplassen. That's not unimportant either. I've said my piece here. Of course, the debate is being observed for us, but I will not bring in anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u36	Fine, but there is still an interruption by Mr Azarkan for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u37	It'll take some getting used to for me. This is my first debate with Mr Graus. Also for Mr Graus a blessed evening for later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u38	Thank you. And welcome to this first debate with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u39	Thank you. I do have a serious question about the extent to which the Brexit is or is not good. That is, of course, the subject of discussion. On the one hand, parties explain it in such a way that it can give an enormous boost to the economy and, in any case, to sovereignty; on the other hand, countries say it will cost jobs, economic growth and so on. How do we determine that with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u40	It's all a cup of coffee. I already told you. You may have heard that, too. The studies that we have had carried out also show that there are advantages and disadvantages, and in particular very great benefits for us. There is also a very quick break-evenpoint to achieve. That could take two to three years. But that's all a cup of coffee. You know what else is a little bit of a problem? I regret that the European Affairs spokesmen are not involved in this. You're going to the heart specialist with heart problems. And with toothache, you go to the dentist. So I'm actually not the right spokesperson either. That's what I started.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u41	Thank you. I think Mr Azarkan asked a slightly different question. But finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u42	Then I didn't understand him. It's okay for him to ask the question again. I'd like to give you a good answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u43	No, I honestly wonder. Like you, Mr President, I am simply curious to know whether this Brexit is harmful or beneficial. I appeal to the OECD, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. What I see then is at least a number of statistics. Economic growth in the UK is lower than in the rest of Europe. The UK is now dangling at the bottom, even since the Brexit. We can see that inflation is rising but wages are falling or remain the same, reducing purchasing power. We see a decline in competitiveness. We see that, and we read this in the newspaper today, that perhaps 25% of farms could go bankrupt, because they will no longer receive subsidies from the EU. I wonder if those are figures you can endorse. Or do you perhaps have other methods to establish that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u44	Thank you. Finally, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u45	I would also like to refer to our investigations. That's more about the nexit and the guilder. We've also had it investigated. Then it turns out that there are other things. But I have also read these reports with great interest. I think it's all worst case scenarios. It's all possible. But we can't exactly compare England to the Netherlands either. I mean that sincerely. The English are not very popular around the world, the Dutch are traditionally. Especially with such a lovely, charming Secretary of State. We have the most beautiful and intelligent queen. We have a perfect business, with the best products. Like I said, I'll compare it to Swiss watches. Really, I am absolutely convinced that no matter what happens, we will always be among the top of the bill and that we will have the least of the disadvantages. So that's my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u46	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u47	Mr. Azarkan, if I can, I'd like to have a stuffed cake with you sometime. Most of the time, we just walk by each other. Then we can talk about that sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u48	Thank you. We're going to have this debate a little bit more business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u49	It is also good that there is a certain cooperation...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u50	Sure, for that you can also meet at the members' restaurant. I give the floor to Mr Amhaouch for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u51	I know Mr Graus as someone who loves entrepreneurs and businesses, and certainly also businesses and entrepreneurs in the border region. That's where he's from. I just wonder: which entrepreneurs or companies are to be applauded if he would also plead for a nexit? More countries can leave the EU, for example Germany, the country we most export to, or Belgium, the second customer of our products. Which of these entrepreneurs, which Mr Graus also stands up for, is now jumping when the Netherlands would say: let's all go, we're all doing bilaterally?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u52	You know, Mr. Amhaouch, we're populists. And populists listen very carefully to the people. I certainly do; I listen to my supporters in Limburg, the province with the largest border area. I have to say that I still have to run into the first one, but if you know an entrepreneur who shares your opinion, please take it with you. But I still have to run into the first one. I cannot mention the names of entrepreneurs who say: I have benefited from it. Well, as I said in my speech, the European Community, economic cooperation, bilateral trade agreements. We are also in favour of Europe, and I would like to correct that for a moment, and for the European market. We just don't want to be a province of Brussels. So it's good that I can straighten that out here. We live close together. Why don't you take me to someone who shares your opinion, because I still have to run into the first one. Then you just have to take me with you and get someone to say it, or else I won't believe it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u53	Thank you. Your call is clear. Mr Amhaouch, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u54	There are certainly a number of entrepreneurs he also knows well, especially in the agro as the second largest exporter in the Netherlands. But I also welcome the fact that the PVV is correcting things here today and saying that they are for Europe, especially when it comes to trade. Then I guess we're back on the same page. That's a piece of news.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u55	Thank you. Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u56	I'd like to respond to that. Mr Bosma even put "pro Europe" on his Twitter account. That's actually very familiar. I always say that with every television show I may not have as many as you do. I look forward to a trade treaty with our great friends from England. Maybe that trade agreement looks much better. Who knows? We don't know any of that. Finally, I would like to say to Mr Amhaouch that tomorrow I will be visiting the agro-industry in his surroundings with Mr Wilders. Then I'll definitely ask you again, but I still have to run into the first one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u57	Thank you. You were there briefly but powerfully, let's just say. I give the floor to Mr Veldman of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u58	"I find the situation very worrying. I wonder if the urgency is sufficiently felt." These are the words of Bas Janssen, director of the Rotterdam entrepreneurial organisation Deltalinqs last January in Het Financieele Dagblad. His underlying message was of course: the Dutch business community still does not seem to be getting ready for the Brexit. That is worrying, because around 35,000 companies in the Netherlands doing business with the United Kingdom have never dealt with customs facilities. They're used to trading without borders, they're used to transporting goods without borders. The employment effect of the Brexit is estimated at a loss of between 18 000 and 73 000 jobs. We are not talking about companies that do not directly deal with the United Kingdom, but trade with Ireland, for example, where transport is via the United Kingdom. Or companies that, for example, have a data centre that is housed in the UK. Good preparation is therefore absolutely necessary. This is a responsibility of entrepreneurs themselves, according to the Secretary of State recently. And yes, she's formally right about that. However, this is not a change caused by the market itself, but by a massive change in the playing field as a result of a government choice. Compare it with the introduction of the euro, also a public choice with significant consequences for entrepreneurs. At that time, the government started a solid journey. The National Forum for the introduction of the euro was set up by the Council of Ministers in February 1996. There was then six years to ensure that the introduction of the euro went well. For the Brexit we only have one year left. Mr. Chairman. Large companies are bound to come a long way in their preparation, but the medium-sized and smaller companies themselves do not have the capacity to do so. The government can and must therefore assume a responsibility for this, otherwise it will ultimately be at the expense of even more jobs. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that every entrepreneur exporting to the United Kingdom should be reached? Does the Secretary of State agree with me that the government has a responsibility to ensure that these entrepreneurs know what to expect in the coming year? How is she gonna take care of this? Is the Secretary of State prepared, similar to the introduction of the euro, to draw up a national action plan, to set up expert teams to continue the country and actively support companies in the steps they need to take? Of course I understand that not everything is known yet, but why is the Secretary of State not carrying out a follow-up investigation into the consequences for the Dutch economy? Unfortunately, that is what I read in the answers to various parliamentary questions. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate this after all? Is the Secretary of State prepared to develop and develop scenarios with the potential impact on exports, such as market access requirements? Demands for food or flowers can change enormously. Think of obligations on classification, labelling, packaging and registration. Making scenarios is not premature, it is necessary if we are to protect our exporting industry. Fortunately, there is also a positive side. The Brexit also offers opportunities, opportunities to bring English companies, also SMEs to the Netherlands. Our location climate is good. We have the knowledge and we have the infrastructure. The Minister is about the locational climate, so I ask this question to the Minister. What's he gonna do to cash in on the odds? Is he willing to take up Holland's courage and actively bring the Netherlands to the attention of the Netherlands as a new location? Mr. Chairman. Time's ticking. It is time to switch from the first gear to the fifth gear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u59	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mr Van der Lee. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u60	I was a little triggered by Mr Veldman's words when he said that the Brexit is a government decision. I don't think that's exactly right. It was a decision in a referendum. The decision of the citizens and businesses of England was to set this in motion. I was a little triggered by it because Mr Veldman then had a number of questions or opinions on what was the responsibility of the Dutch government. In its letter, the government actually makes it quite clear that business itself is responsible for proper preparation. The government is at the service of the companies. She helps them, but the responsibility lies with the companies themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u61	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u62	Does Mr Veldman agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u63	As I said earlier, the companies are of course primarily involved. But you will only be a small SME who is used to doing business within the EU, which has never dealt with customs, which has never dealt with that kind of formalities. Then it is a quest to get an answer to the question: what does this mean for me? Then I think that the Dutch government has a task and a role to play in finding and supporting those SMEs in the steps they need to take, because ultimately it is Dutch employment and Dutch jobs that are at stake. If an entrepreneur is not adequately supported and eventually does not find his way, that could cost that entrepreneur the head. This is a pity for the entrepreneur, but that is even worse for the jobs that will disappear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u64	I agree with this 100%. But I also notice that the social debate is currently going on about creating a Brexit Fund to compensate companies. That is what I was referring to: where exactly is the responsibility? What's the VVD like in that discussion? Supporting, informing, helping, that seems to me to be a very good thing, but in the future it would seem to me that it would be a step too far to compensate companies through collective means. Does Mr Veldman agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u65	Mr Van der Lee did not hear me say that either. We are now in the process of preparation. I wonder if that goes well enough and if companies know how to find their way. That's what I'm worried about. That is why the next appeal is addressed to the Secretary of State. My call is to act actively in this as a government and to move expert teams around the country, so that entrepreneurs who do not find the way will be helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u66	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u67	Mr President, thank you. Can you lower the speaker's seat a little bit? Oh, you can turn that down remotely. Fantastic!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u68	I hardly ever do it, but I can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u69	Yes, thank you. Mr. Chairman. In the UK, there are sometimes wonderful views. One of these wondrous views is that one should be better off without Europe and move on independently. Another example dates from 21 years ago, when I was a young boy in London working on the Strand, opposite Covent Garden. I learned there from my manager that the rest of the world is on the wrong side. Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the Brexit, and in particular about the consequences for the Dutch economy. The Brexit is, of course, a worrying development. While further integration is envisaged through Economic and Monetary Union and the Energy Union, the Brexit is talking about disintegration. For the first time in history, a country no longer wants to be part of the EU. The DENK Group welcomes the preliminary agreement on a transitional period until 31 December 2020. That is enough time to avoid the dreaded cliff-edge scenario, not a new trade treaty, but only WTO rules, with trade barriers that are annoying for our economy. For two years now, the UK has been given approximately the status of a country in the European Economic Area. The UK thus maintains access to the Customs Union, the Internal Market and the Trade Treaties, and the migration rights of EU citizens are maintained for the time being. However, the UK will no longer have any say in the decision-making process in the EU, which it will have to follow. So is it true that the supporters of the Brexit have achieved exactly the opposite of what they wanted in the short term? Britain is becoming an extension of the EU for two years, without its own participation in new legislation. I see Mr Paternotte nodding and it must be true. In this respect, the Minister can skip this question. We have also received the KPMG report, together with a number of letters from the cabinet. DENK has the impression that the preparation of the government and business for the forthcoming Brexit has started well. You would almost think, Mr President, with some cowardly arrogance, that the Azarkan motion, adopted on 16 May last year, on the preparation for the Brexit has done its job well, although I have the dark brown suspicion that it would have come to proper preparation even without the motion. I read that the NVWA and the agricultural inspection services were strengthened in time. On the website Brexit-Loket, on which I myself searched, I see enough information. Scans can be done and a voucher can be requested. I would like to thank Mr Wiebes and Mr Schouten and Mr Keijzer. However, I do have a number of questions. I wonder how many questions come in every month at that Brexit-Loket. Is that being used properly? How's that activation tool coming? How does the Minister measure whether business is sufficiently prepared for this Brexit? Again, research by Kantar Public has shown that more than 50% of companies are just not yet preparing for the Brexit. Is it really the intention, as I read on one of those websites, to add 940 fte to customs and more than 200 to NVWA? Or is that just the case with the worst case scenario? And is it true, as we read, that the recruitment started on a modest scale? What's the status here? To what extent, for example, is the tight labour market a barrier? I am also very curious to see how many of these Brexit vouchers have been requested by SMEs. How much of the EUR 4 million made available has been used? Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands can also reap the benefits of the Brexit. For example, the European Medicines Agency, the EEA, has now been allocated to Amsterdam with thanks to the British. What's the status here? Is permanent housing going to get there in time? Are there any other European agencies that can bring the Netherlands in? As far as DENK is concerned, they are also welcome and so are the financial institutions that want to escape the city, as long as they comply with the Dutch bonus legislation. Mr President, I will conclude. The Brexit offers even more opportunities. For example, the financial transaction tax, also called Tobintaks, and the harmonised rate for the Vpb are getting a little closer, as our British friends leave the ship. As far as DENK is concerned, this fits into a more social Europe without financial speculation and without devastating tax competition between countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u70	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u71	Good afternoon. The report we are discussing today, the KPMG report on the impact of non-tariff barriers to trade due to Brexit, shows that it would be detrimental to the Netherlands, especially the Netherlands, if no deal is made with the United Kingdom. It is very important to realize, here and now in the European Council, that the only reason that no deal could be made is that the European Union as an institution, as a bureaucratic monster, has the ambition to give up some sort of statement, to show: "Hey, if you leave us, you will be punished. Look how powerful we are. Look how tough we are." That's the only reason why no deal could be made. The United Kingdom wants to make a deal. The Netherlands should want to make a deal. We have the most interest of all those countries in a very good agreement, where we recognise our products, not only the goods but also the services. That's within all possibilities. Barnier himself brought the financial services to TTIP. He stated during the negotiations on TTIP that this could simply become part of the negotiations, but now he says that this cannot be done. In short, it is totally unbelievable. The European Union has concluded beautiful agreements with Switzerland and also with Norway. This must now be done with the United Kingdom. The only reason this won't happen was because of Barnier. Then I would like to remind you of the following. If you look at Article 50, the article that looks at the negotiations that are currently taking place, it turns out that it is ultimately the Council that determines the Barnier mandate and can change it. That is what the Netherlands should do in the Council. Prioritize the economic interests of the Member States and do not lose yourself in cheap political games.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u72	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u73	Mr Baudet says that the only reason why there could not be a trade agreement is that Europe would want to punish the United Kingdom. Could it also be that the United Kingdom wants, above all, the burden of a joint agreement which balances mutual interests? They have actually chosen the Brexit because they are in favour of European investment in Britain, but do not want to contribute to cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u74	The answer to Mr Paternotte's questions is negative. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u75	In a debate, it is customary for you to make some argument and not just say no. Of course, that's the whole problem. Mr Baudet has been in favour of a nexit for years. He was cheering when the Brexit was chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u76	That's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u77	Then let me ask the question as follows. We can now see that inflation is rising in Britain and wages remain the same. Economic growth in Great Britain is now the lowest in the whole G8, the lowest in the whole OECD, while it was initially the highest in the whole G8. There's a run on Irish passports. 12 500 jobs have disappeared in the financial sector alone. My question then is whether Mr Baudet lives in the same world as the Brexit produces.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u78	Mr Paternotte believes, on the one hand, that the United Kingdom does not want the burden, but does not want the burden. On the other hand, he believes that the consequences of the Brexit are very negative for the United Kingdom. In my opinion, there is a great contradiction in both claims. One can't be true if the other is true. Apart from that. Economics This is very important... is not predictive science, but speculative mass psychology. The moment you say that the consequences are disastrous and so on and so on, and at the same time there is a huge campaign of mainstream media and of the political establishment, all kinds of companies will naturally move around. There will undoubtedly be people applying for an Irish passport. But there are also all kinds of other figures. Exports have increased enormously by 13%. Imports have increased by 12%. Investment increased by 4% in the last year. That's higher than any other G7 country. In 2017, there was an absolute record of new start-ups and investments in start-ups. It's just what you're looking at. Unemployment is lower than it has been in 40 years. You can say they're losing something economically here and they're winning something there. The point in the end is this. In the longer term, the European Union is a very heavy burden around our necks. It's an economic model that doesn't fit in with modern times. The age of the Internet, digitalisation and globalisation offers all kinds of opportunities, including for the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. The European Union is a customs union that binds us to the only part of the world where very small economic growth is to be expected. That is neither our interest nor the interests of the United Kingdom. Again, it has been a wonderful decision of the British to leave. I look forward to the day that we will do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u79	Thank you. A very brief follow-up question may be asked because the debate was slightly different, but I believe that Mr Baudet has now given a comprehensive answer. This is the third part of your second interruption. Very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u80	Mr Baudet said that the loss of 12 500 jobs in the financial sector in Britain is the result of speculative mass psychology. And he all mentions figures from within the United Kingdom. Then let me try one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u81	Your question is, very specific and brief?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u82	The world economy is growing and the United Kingdom is back to 0.4% growth, the latest growth rate of the OECD countries and the lowest of the G8. The pound is at the lowest level in 31 years. Let me make a comparison with figures in history and with figures from other countries. Do you also see these figures and do you still think that the nexit is a good idea at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u83	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u84	In my view, Mr Baudet is a good representative of the 'unsink artel' with this line of reasoning. It's an art when you can pile up bullshit that high. It is, of course, the case that the British have the freedom to make an unwise decision with a democratic mandate. But Mr Baudet believes that a customs union is, by definition, harmful at this time. I see Mr Baudet nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u85	Yeah, I think so. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u86	Is Mr Baudet aware that the Republic of the Seven United Netherlands has ever arisen as a defence and customs union?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u87	This is largely true, yes, although exceptions have been made with regard to a number of aspects of the trading life of the various states, but that is not very important in itself for the broader argument that you probably still want to make. But I don't think you can stick a modern customs union one-on-one on the original Republic. Having said that, the history of the Republic, but perhaps also, for example, the history of Germany in the nineteenth century, shows that indeed customs-like unions lead to state-building. That is also why I am fundamentally against the EU. So I am not against the EU as someone who does not understand it, for example Frits Bolkestein, saying: I am against the common market but... That is not possible, and you do not understand what the EU really is. The EU is a state in the making, from the very beginning. That is precisely because of the distinction between the customs union and the free trade area. A customs union is really a fundamentally different thing from a free trade area. I am a warm supporter of free trade...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u89	... but customs unions lead to central bureaucracy and thus to state-building. They are therefore incompatible with a sovereign democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u90	Thank you. Mr. Moorlag, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u91	Has the formation of the Republic of the Seven United Netherlands, which has finally become the nation state of the Netherlands, been historically a wrong choice? Do I understand that Mr Baudet thinks so? This customs union, too, has led to the formation of a state.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u92	No, because I'm not against any form of state formation. I just think that the borders of a state should coincide with the borders of a nation. Only if you have a nation state can you have a democratic rule of law. The problem of a supranational state - the EU is a supranational state - is that decisions can never be taken democratically, because we, the Dutch people, experience legitimacy very differently than the people of Italy, than the people of Poland and so on. If there is no shared national community, you will always have that problem. This can sometimes be expressed in the form of objections, for example, about transfers of money, then in the form of objections about a particular immigration policy, for example, that German immigration policy is imposed on Hungarians and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u93	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u94	But anyway, it doesn't work. In addition, there is another argument. I think that states, economic actors and so on generally function better if they are not very large. I think that continent states in general suffer from all kinds of structural problems. Look at Brazil, look at China and so on. But that is independent of this fundamental argument about the coincidence of the nation and the state.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u95	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u96	My speech was finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u97	Well, look at that. I see others still want to interrupt, but we're not gonna do that, no. The directors have indicated that they need about 15 minutes before they can answer all the questions. I'm suspending the meeting until 8.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u98	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister to answer the questions of the Chamber. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to address everything related to the locational climate and acquisition and the specific relationship with the Brexit and then the Secretary of State will address all questions relating to the negotiations, preparations on the Customs and NVWA side but also on the SME side. When we talk about acquisition, of course, we are talking about locational climate, because a locational climate is useful both for domestic use and for external use. Everyone knows the power of our locational climate. We'll do that in broad. So it concerns both the favourable location, the infrastructure, the ports, the logistics connections and the fact that we are all so happy and have a good quality of life, pleasant cities, with parks, safe, clean air, excellent education, a great innovative capacity and also an attractive fiscal environment. On some of these things, like fiscal climate, we're never gonna be the winner. We're never gonna be the discounter of Europe, but we're doing it properly. I promised to see if that could be tightened in the third quarter. You'll get a letter about that. But what exactly is the addition of many of you to the Brexit? There are a number of obvious points that you then focus on. One of them is all companies with a so-called passport problem. I think we do not have to imagine too much about the financial sector, but media companies, for example, also have a passport problem in many cases. The second is a bit about Mr Paternotte's campus question, specifically about companies that need access to talent, because there will be barriers that were not there. We are on the right side of that barrier. So we want to be interested in everything about talent and companies that use talent for us. Furthermore, there is, of course, a real opportunity for companies which somehow serve the Union in a logistical sense. That's a number of odds. It's making the need a virtue. In all honesty, it is of course of great need to make a small virtue. But it's what it takes now. I believe that Mr Paternotte said so. We must actively get on the farmer, but actively the farmer is called "the NFIA." The NFIA currently has contact, also in the context of the Brexit, with some 200 different companies; call it leads. Usually that level is 80, now it's 200. There are also extra people appointed in the different cities to draw that towards us. Then you're in acquisition paths that you can't completely predict. Sometimes they last for weeks, often they last for months, sometimes they last for years. In 2017, eighteen companies made a Brexit-related switch. That's about 500 jobs. That's what we registered from the NFIA. These are companies from the UK, of course, but also companies from the US and Japan who are switching from the Brexit for reasons. What does play, we notice, is that companies are waiting. They're not making their choice yet. There is extensive orientation, but it is still looking here and there, looking, not buying, because there is still a lot of uncertainty about the nature and need of such a transaction. For a lot of companies, that's a lot of work. We do that in all kinds of ways. The NFIA is the vehicle for that. I myself think that a pop-up store, if I may say disrespectfully, is a creative idea, but that it is a bit of a business-to-consumer solution for a business-to-business problem. You don't do shopping for locations in a store. I would therefore like to point out to Mr Paternotte that the diplomatic network is more than a flag building. In the past, I've been caught in a lack of respect for our diplomatic services. That won't happen to me again! But I also remind him that we have more than flags. We do it in all kinds of ways and they are called in. I don't really like a pop-up store. All in all, there is not only the general locational climate and the whole machine of the NFIA, but there is also very specific focus on the Brexit interesting directions. It's hard to carry. I wouldn't put it here either. The competitor's listening, so you should never do that. It is just an idea, but it might be interesting to interest the members of this Chamber in a technical briefing on the NFIA and perhaps in particular on the focus on the Brexit. There's a lot more to it than you think. It is extremely interesting, good for the country and we are generally successful. Mr Van der Lee has specific concerns about ETS, but I see Mr Paternotte walking to the interrupting microphone, so he has even more concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u100	The Minister, of course, outlines the commitment: we have an embassy, the NFIA has four people in London and has people in Toronto and New York. Eighteen companies, with some 500 jobs, have said to come to the Netherlands. My question is whether you feel that we are doing well with this and whether we are doing well with it in relation to other European countries. 'Cause I notice they're not really big numbers. I also note that 12 500 jobs in the financial sector alone have been lost in the UK, and that, for example, the Netherlands is saying today: we really do miss the opportunity side by side with the great disaster, as you say the Brexit offers. We ask you to create an action plan together with business associations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u101	The action plan we are implementing has been created together with the entrepreneurs. I can only continue to enthuse them from this place to actively implement their part in the action plan. That is exactly what has happened: in this case, VNO has been the subject of such an action plan, in which we are working together. The example of the financial sector may not be the happiest example, I think Mr Paternotte knows that. There are all kinds of reasons to think about, but at least you don't need a lot of imagination to think about why that didn't all work out and why that didn't all come to the Netherlands. That could have been different, but there "we" have made other choices. Whoever "we" is, I'll leave it in the middle.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u102	Mr Paternotte, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u103	Mr President, I am only now asking a question for the second time. The Minister is quite right that we have indeed made other choices with regard to the financial sector. That is why I say: should we not focus more on SMEs? You mention VNO-NCW, but do you explain that, for example, Entrepreneurship Netherlands says today: we would like to participate in an action plan and play a role in it? Maybe that's what the SME Netherlands wants. That may be a question for the Secretary of State, but at least I think that we should not just look at large business.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u104	I couldn't agree more. This is not a question for the Secretary of State, although she will be very keen on it, but indeed an acquisition question. Isn't there something extra to do? I think it might be nice for the Members of Parliament present to consider taking part in a technical briefing on this subject. Look, we're doing the maximum with the resources out there, in my opinion. That's a lot of thought. The focus is constantly shifted to where the possibilities lie. When you're working on it with all the inspiration and all the commitment, you always want more. This also applies to other areas where the public euro is rolling. One might want that in health care or in education too. These are the resources we have for this and we are trying to achieve the maximum. I would like to have the opportunity to explain this in one way or another and then to see if there can be anything more, and all suggestions are welcome. But I would be careful not to know how it happens immediately to say that there can be extra, which I do not hear Mr Paternotte say. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Lee speaks to me of a common conviction, namely ETS. Price is by far far to my complete conviction! It is the most efficient and economically efficient way for citizens and businesses to reduce CO. It leads to rational and efficient choices. The commitment of the Netherlands can only be that we want to keep that system as large as possible. Fortunately, you do not have to be in the Union to participate in ETS. The UK hasn't figured that out yet. The UK has not yet made its views known. When I read the English Government's documents on sustainability intentions, I would suspect that they too think it is right to continue to do so, but I cannot say that to them. At least my hope is that they'll stay in on it. Agreements have also been made in case they step out to prevent a sudden large-scale sale of ETS rights. However, Mr Van der Lee and I share the view that the ETS system should be bigger than smaller. Mr Azarkan wondered if there were any other agencies in the picture. Well, no, in that sense, the United Kingdom has been picked. The EEA has gone to the Netherlands and EBA has gone to Paris. Is it on schedule? Yes. I understand from the U.S. Secretary that it's on schedule. There are no signs of delay. It must also be on schedule for the following, and that is another point of attention for the NFIA. In the slipstream of EEA, we have become extremely attractive for yet another innovative medical application. That is another part of the acquisition policy that we can release, and that is what we will do. Because there is nothing against thoughtful opportunism when you are recruiting companies to the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State answers the other questions. I'll make room for her.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u105	Thank you. Then I'd be happy to give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thought-out opportunism can be defended to bring companies to the Netherlands... Everyone is always looking for their own wording, but it does appeal to me, the thought behind it. Because there are definitely positive aspects to the Brexit. At least, you have to want to see them. Especially for a country that has always had an entrepreneurial spirit and that sails the world seas, we have to look at that in that way. My colleague has just said a few words about this. It is always asked of me when I am in conversation with entrepreneurs: what are the opportunities of the Brexit? There are. At the same time, a warned person counts for two. I shall deal with that in particular. Now doing business with London is like doing business with well, say something, Hanover. I'm just calling it a town I'm going to soon. It is part of the European internal market, of the customs union as we know it. But when the British voted to leave the European Union on 23 June 2016, it was immediately clear that this would have huge economic effects for us. A departure from the UK from the Union has implications for trade and investment between the UK and the EU, for the political forces in Europe and for the European budget. We need to be aware of the enormous benefits that the European internal market offers to the Dutch economy, because there are absolutely many of them. The Netherlands is not just one out of 27. After Ireland, the Netherlands is the country whose economic interests are greatest in Brexit. I can now repeat all the figures quoted by the various spokesmen today on the economic importance, on our exports, on our earning capacity, on employment, but I shall leave that aside. I fully agree with that, because there are economic interests and they are very large. We are therefore primarily in favour of a broad and ambitious agreement on the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the Union. But this is largely dependent on the United Kingdom's attitude. The red lines are not helping. Access to the UK market and flexible customs procedures are important. This is also a level playing field between English and Dutch companies. Or rather more simply put: no English companies that can count on large state aid and then compete Dutch companies away. It is also about legal certainty for Dutch entrepreneurs in the future. I told you, a warned person counts for two.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u107	Mr Baudet has an interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u108	You are wearing a beautiful jacket, Secretary of State, a very beautiful fabric. You say that it is mainly the United Kingdom. I don't get it. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u109	As in a good relationship, in a good marriage, love must come from both sides. Mr Baudet will recognize that. Agreements with the United Kingdom also require people to find each other. If one of the two then to the question "will we hide under one roof with each other?" Says "I want to hide, but not under the same roof as you want," then it stops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u110	I do have the feeling that spring is coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u111	That's very abstract. Quite specifically, does the Secretary of State consider that it has not yet reached an agreement with the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u112	What I said was that if you want to make agreements, you're gonna have to have common ground. If you look at the red lines formulated by the United Kingdom and confirmed by Prime Minister May, it will be complicated. At the same time...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u113	What red lines?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u114	Let's get the minister to talk. Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u115	"State Secretary," thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u116	Sorry, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u117	The discussion of whether or not you want to be part of the internal market. The discussion about whether or not you want to be part of the customs union. Another big discussion is about intellectual property. And then there is the debate on Northern Ireland, not to mention Northern Ireland. Those are all topics on which you need to agree. It was also May who said: "Nothing is agitated until everything is agitated." So we've made arrangements now, but they're for the time being. All these different issues need to be agreed. It is good that Mr Baudet is standing there now. He made it seem as if the European Commission did not recognise how incredibly important good agreements are for the Netherlands, for Ireland, for Germany, for France. That is clearly recognised. Barnier is also working very hard to reach that agreement. But love must come from both sides. It is therefore a matter of waiting to see whether both sides will eventually find each other on the altar.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u118	What is Mr Baudet's answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u119	I find none of the points mentioned convincing. Of course, the United Kingdom does not want to be part of the customs union as it is called. The United Kingdom has indeed said that we do not want to guard the border with Ireland. That is a wonderful offer, a very generous offer from the United Kingdom to the European Union. The European Union is going on about that again. I do not think that this is based on any argument. There is nothing from the United Kingdom that prevents the general mutual recognition of products and services. I really do not see where the Secretary of State can place the problem with the United Kingdom. The only one who struggles is the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u120	Perhaps that is the case in Mr Baudet's world. If you look at all the reports that are on the table here, for example the KPMG report, you will see very clearly what it means to Dutch entrepreneurs if the UK is no longer part of the agreements we have made with each other. That means waiting times, which means testing for food and flowers. All these different things will then come into effect. Mr Baudet may not find that interesting. For the Dutch, the question is: can I still rely on food coming to our side from that side to meet the demands we have made in this respect? That's one of the things that's important from that side. For us, it is important because that is what this debate is called today: the Dutch economy after the Brexit agreement that the Dutch entrepreneur has access to the British market as it is now, that there is a level playing field for English companies and Dutch companies and that there is legal certainty for that entrepreneur, should there be a conflict in England. Mr Baudet may pretend that it doesn't matter, but in the real world of the Dutch entrepreneur that matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u121	I'm not saying that at all! The subject is not that the KPMG report would or would not show, no matter how reliable that report is, that it would be unattractive without a deal. The point is: where is the possibility, politically speaking, to adjust something from the Lower House? My argument was that the Netherlands in the Council of Ministers should have a very strong influence on this issue, too, on Barnier's shortwing and all those other figures who want to make a political statement from the European Union. Verhofstadt, Juncker and a number of others are also in that circle of Barnier and want to show here how tough they are. The Netherlands must engage in sober, economic negotiations. That's all I want to say. I would like an undertaking from the Secretary of State and from the Minister, which was the point of my speech, that they will commit to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u122	I was told that Mr Baudet was jumping when the UK decided to leave the European Union in June 2016. I think that Mr Baudet has stuck there a little bit. I also saw Europeans and people in the European Commission at first who were extremely disappointed. In the meantime, everyone involved in this subject realizes how incredibly big the consequences are for Dutch entrepreneurs. Anyone involved in these negotiations, whether this is Mr Barnier or my colleagues in the cabinet and I in the various bodies in which we speak, is aware that it is also in our interest to conclude a good agreement with the United Kingdom. This means, however, that the conditions for Dutch entrepreneurs must be such that economic cooperation can progress, in such a way that we also have the benefits and not just in the way Mr Paternotte called it: only the lusts and not the burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u123	Thank you. The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u124	Mr. Chairman. We're not gonna sit here and wait for the negotiations. Since the article 50 notification, we have been working very hard on preparations. To put it in English, we work for the best, but we prepare for the sausage. We are assuming the worst scenario should it not eventually come to an agreement, the so-called cliff-edge scenario. I would prefer to scale it down later if it is not too bad, rather than be uncomfortable surprised if the British House of Commons at the very last moment I have been told that three days before the Brexit is a fact, the agreement is rejected. Anyway, it's inevitable that things will change. The United Kingdom will then become a third country. This applies not only to companies, I also say to Mr Veldman, but also to governments. As a government, we are preparing for the consequences of the UK's choice to become a third country outside the EU. Regardless of the nature of the new agreement, customs procedures will increase and more border inspections will be needed. The various implementing authorities of the government are preparing to identify what will be needed in the future and to increase capacity for this. We are in close contact with business. My experience is that companies find it difficult to estimate the effects the Brexit will have on them. Large exporting companies, especially if they export to countries outside the European Union, often have a better picture and can prepare themselves well because they already know what it means to trade with a so-called third country. The conversations about that are good. They give us valuable information about expected bottlenecks that require solutions. My main concern lies, I say, with Mr Veldman, with small and medium-sized enterprises, which have greater dependence on trade with the United Kingdom and have no experience with third countries. Mr. Chairman. What does business support look like? This afternoon you received a letter on this subject, in which it has been properly sorted out. A number of you have complimented us on this, for which I thank you. It's pretty substantial. With the KPMG report, we have presented the effects of the fact that the United Kingdom will no longer be part of the Union. We opened the Brexit Loket online. HelpBrexit is also such a place where entrepreneurs can go. I have been asked sometimes whether there are not a lot more places where information can be found, but the intention is that there is no wrong door where you can enter. No matter where you come in with your question, you get the information you need. Mr. Chairman. We have the Brexit vouchers, which you have also read about, in which companies can be helped to find advice on what means to them. I also want to highlight the Brexit Impact Scan. It was commissioned by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs by the RVO. This scan's been live for a few days. Through this instrument, a number of questions can help entrepreneurs to identify the risks of the Brexit. Advice is given on the subject of exports, imports, establishment, Anyone who's wondering what this is about, I really recommend taking a look. It is an extremely useful online tool that allows you to answer the various questions for your company, clearly hear what you need and where you need to be. Mr. Chairman. For example, entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, who do not simply have additional staff available, because this is of course the case in smaller companies, in a simple and easily accessible way, for example, with the possible consequences of the Brexit. It is relevant not only for exporters and importers, but also for companies that may depend indirectly on the United Kingdom for their production chain or service. You'll only have one machine factory and at some point you'll come to the conclusion that a certain part of the machine you make comes from the United Kingdom and that a truck is waiting at the border. Mr. Chairman. That's it? No, we'll do more. We want to hold stakeholder meetings in May and June. In five regional meetings, in Heerenveen, Roermond, Amsterdam, Hoeve and Apeldoorn, we want to talk to entrepreneurs, to inform them about necessary preparations for the Brexit. My colleagues and I in the Cabinet do not leave an opportunity to be in conversation. It is now almost becoming a road show at larger meetings, such as Mr Kaag at the busy Brexit event at the World Forum in The Hague on 29 March. When I visit a company, I ask every time if they have a picture of whether they have any kind of relationship with the United Kingdom. The government is also preparing for customs and inspection staff. We are working hard not only to identify policy implications, but also to ensure that there will soon be enough people to continue to process the flow of goods with the United Kingdom. We are preparing our implementation organisations, which are dealing with traders in trade with the United Kingdom, for the impact, in order to reduce delays in trade flows. In this context, it has been decided that customs and NVWA and a number of other organisations can already start making necessary investments, such as recruiting additional staff. For customs, between 750 and 900 customs agents and the NVWA started recruitment to eventually attract 143 fte to veterinarians. Let me now turn to the questions raised by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Veldman, among others.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u125	I can see the way over by the interrupting microphone, but would you mind waiting for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I saw them think: if this is it, a lot will be forgotten, but of course that is not the intention. Mr Amhaouch asked me about fishing in Scottish waters. The closure of Scottish waters could seriously affect Dutch fishing. I just can't anticipate it right now. In the context of the Brexit negotiations, the Netherlands will stand up for the Dutch fisheries interests, as laid down in the government agreement. I know that my colleague from LNV is committed to this. Our commitment is to ensure permanent access to British waters, even in balance with British access to the European market, on which I had a debate with Mr Baudet. Is it possible that there are bilateral fisheries agreements? That is how I understood Mr Amhaouch's question. There are no bilateral fisheries agreements between the UK and the Netherlands that have been concluded before 1973 and are still in force. However, there are some multilateral fisheries agreements prior to 1973, to which both the Netherlands and the United Kingdom are parties. The most famous is the London Fisheries Convention. As previously shared with the Chamber, the United Kingdom denounced the 1964 London Convention. I must honestly confess that I am not reading from my own work here, but from the work of the Minister of LNV. I understand that it will soon be discussed with the Minister. Mr Moorlag asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u127	Have you answered all the questions raised by Mr Veldman and Mr Amhaouch?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u128	No, I have a number of other issues, such as business information, which Mr Veldman also spoke about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u129	Fine, then you just move on. If you would like to pause at a natural moment, I can give the floor to the two gentlemen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u130	A natural moment is every time you breathe, but that's not what you mean, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u131	Thank you. You're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u132	Mr Moorlag asked me whether, together with the social partners, I am going to provide a soft landing for employees of companies where things eventually go wrong. In the Netherlands, we have a good social safety net for people who lose their jobs and also regularly consult with social partners, for example at the ESC. Our social safety net has already endured many crises, as has the last financial crisis. We expect that the consequences of the Brexit can be taken into account, and everything is dedicated to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u133	I think this is a natural moment. Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u134	I don't understand that reasoning line. We also have a very good system in the Netherlands to meet the needs of entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u135	Could you speak a little more in the microphone?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u136	All kinds of additional measures are now being taken for entrepreneurs. Then it can't be that the government in the parking lot gently waves to the workers whose jobs are threatened, pushes on the horn and then drives away? That's impossible, isn't it? If we make so much provision for entrepreneurs, why can we not do something for those workers who are at risk of being disadvantaged by the Brexit?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u137	In this debate, I do not so much see the contradiction between entrepreneurs and employees that Mr Moorlag places here. In fact, some of you have said the same here. That is precisely the importance of the discussion we are having here. If we manage to achieve a good agreement with the UK, it is for the best. For the rest, we are working in all kinds of ways to help entrepreneurs so that they do not suffer from this in the changed situation. If that happens, it will be fantastic for the workers, because they will be able to keep their jobs. Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are most of them family-run enterprises (SMEs) and are the part of the Dutch business community that always realizes that good economic development and good management are also important for their employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u138	Thank you. Mr. Moorlag, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u139	You can reason: a political decision in another country, even if it is an EU member, is a normal entrepreneurial risk and that something happens to an employee's job is also a normal risk. I do not want us to make any additional provision for entrepreneurs, but not for employees. In the past, the Netherlands has done the same. For example, the former Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Kamp, has made funds available to ALDEL employees because of an imperfection in the energy market. A plan was then drawn up with the social partners to deal with the social consequences. It doesn't want me to do anything for employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u140	Of course it isn't. We have a good social safety net in the Netherlands. We have agreed that additional efforts will be made if it becomes very large at some point. Internationally, this is just well arranged in the Netherlands. Look at it that way too; I really want to tell Mr Moorlag that. All the efforts we make for entrepreneurs to help them with the Brexit, which is to come, are precisely in the interests of the workers. Because if the company you work with stays alive or even finds new markets if the Brexit is a reality, then it is also good for the jobs and for the entrepreneurs of the company in question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u141	Mr. Moorlag, your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u142	What I want to say is that I and my group do not want to see a soft landing of entrepreneurs, while a Brexit, hard or soft, is a hard landing for workers. That's not what I want to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u143	I think that's a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u144	Yes, it's a repeat, Mr. Chairman. I would like to invite Mr Moorlag to look at it in the other way. What we do for entrepreneurs to ensure that they suffer as little as possible from the Brexit is not only in the interests of economic growth and innovation, but also of workers. Mr. Chairman. Mr Veldman asked whether the Secretary of State was prepared to investigate the economic consequences in different scenarios. A number of impact assessments have been made by the CPB and the CBS. These give us good insight into the economic consequences of the Brexit. Both reports show that the British and Dutch economies are strongly interwoven and that the Dutch economy is hit relatively hard by the Brexit. On this point in the negotiations, new investigations cannot provide additional insights. I would also like to remind you of KPMG's research. As far as I am concerned, this has been a great research which will enable us to identify precisely what this means for different sectors in the field of non-tariff barriers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u145	I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. Have Mr Veldman's questions been answered? I see Mr. Veldman getting up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u146	Shall I just look into the questions? Then we've had them all in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u147	Fine. Thank you. Then I will give the floor to Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u148	Yes. Mr Veldman asked me to answer that question in my introduction. What the cabinet is doing for small and medium-sized enterprises. In my introduction, I mentioned all the different topics that seek to reach small and medium-sized enterprises and to help them in a variety of ways to identify their business practices and trade relations and to find alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u149	The beginning has been made, I could say when I hear the Secretary of State and read this afternoon's letter about what is happening. Good that there are a number of websites; I've also looked at them. It is good that there are a number of meetings in the country, but I can imagine that the average small SME, an SME with ten, fifteen staff, does not have time at all to go to such a meeting; it is just working. The question is: does the Secretary of State have an idea of how many entrepreneurs it achieves with what it is doing now? There are 35,000 companies that trade with the UK and are not used to borders, which have no experience of this. How many of those 35,000 have we reached now? 'Cause we only have a year left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u150	That is a very good question from Mr Veldman. It's also a question I've been practicing about. Are you gonna reach them all? I guess that's probably not gonna work out in the end. At the same time, it is also a bit alien to the VVD to think. At least I listen to that thought under Mr Veldman's questions that entrepreneurs are not engaged in changing markets, that they are not concerned with the question of what that means for their business. I know the Dutch entrepreneur as an entrepreneur who does. Mr Veldman rightly mentions the smaller SMEs, the very small ones. It will sometimes be quite complicated for that, but it can only be that there will be a moment when it comes to this one as well. All sorts of things are being done to reach them. Let's just help each other in that, too. I know MPs all go to company visits. Make it a standard part of the questions you ask those entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u151	Mr. Veldman, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u152	That's what we do. Colleagues of mine and myself go into the country regularly, so we also visit entrepreneurs. I note that the average entrepreneur has replied to the question whether he has heard from the government so far with "no." In the meantime, I've seen the websites, so I'm pointing them out on those websites too, but I don't think it should depend on me if we reach that 35,000. Yes, I can imagine the Minister saying it takes some time, but you'll only be the SME's with ten, 15 people or the SME's who called the Secretary of State himself, in whom a part of the production process comes from the United Kingdom, which he doesn't realize. We cannot wait for that entrepreneur to realize that, because then we may be too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u153	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u154	My first question to the Minister was: what further action will she take, what steps will she take to ensure that we reach 35,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u155	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u156	'Cause now I hear the Secretary of State say, "I can't do that." I think that's too skinny.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u157	Mr Veldman is asking for a guarantee that we will reach all these 35,000 entrepreneurs. Mr Veldman knows about guarantees. Then the example of the vacuum cleaners always comes out. I do see the importance of what Mr Veldman is putting forward here. At the same time, I think: gradually I cannot imagine that there are still entrepreneurs who do not realize that there is a Brexit. The question is: how do we make them think about what it means to their business? We'll do anything about it. This debate today also leads to news coverage. At some point, that should lead someone to think: hey, maybe that's true of me. In addition, we do all the various things I have just mentioned: the website, the Chamber of Commerce, business associations. Don't forget how many associations of undertakings are working on these subjects! And when such an entrepreneur eventually wonders what it means to him or her, then there are all kinds of different instruments to help him or her, because I fully underline the importance of Mr Veldman's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u158	Thank you. Were those all Mr Amhaouch's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u159	No, definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u160	Okay. I shall now give the floor to Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u161	Mr President, thank you. I would like to return to the Secretary of State's speech just before there was an interruption. That was about the CBS statistics. The Secretary of State said that people can find some statistical data in it. I thought that was one of the lesser things. I don't understand why this is going to happen until the third quarter of 2016. Does the Secretary of State know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u162	No, Mr. Chairman. I suggest I return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u163	I can see that Mr Azarkan is okay with that. The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u164	Mr Paternotte pointed out to me, and I took a look and it was right...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u165	I think Mr Amhaouch can no longer wait, so I will allow him to interrupt now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u166	Unless the Secretary of State also comes back to my questions about information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u167	Yes, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u168	I had a hunch. The Secretary of State continues her speech with Mr Paternotte's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u169	He pointed out to me that on the site of Entrepreneur's Square it says that the Brexit means nothing for the time being. And, Mr President, it says, "in the short term, no consequences" in relation to the decision taken on this matter. In fact, it is correct, but I do agree with Mr Paternotte that it seems a bit strange when we say to this entrepreneur here: take a good look at your company, get ready. So let me make a call to see if that is the most sensible approach in this area. Mr Azarkan asked another question about figures. How often has the Brexit Impact Scan been approached? It's 150 visits a day. So that's really worth it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u170	Mr Azarkan wants to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u171	Thanks for the answer. My question was not how often it is visited a day, but how often it has been visited. Unless you know the number of days. And then I'm gonna do the math.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u172	I think the site has been online since March 29th. It's April 6th now. That'll be 8 x 150.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u173	That's 1,200.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u174	Yeah, something like that. Get him. At least it's a lot. I liked the grade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u175	Thank you, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u176	Mr Paternotte asked about the action plan with entrepreneurs. The importance the cabinet attaches to good cooperation and consultation with the business community will be a project of a future coordination unit of taxation. It will continue to consult with industry on a regular basis. This is also one of the instruments I mentioned in my introduction, I say to Mr Veldman. This is done in conjunction with existing partnerships in which companies and governments work together. These consultations should provide a platform to identify bottlenecks and find practical, workable solutions. Then Mr Amhaouch. Yes! Is the customs authorities themselves prepared to provide short courses and information days? The cabinet believes that at least the business community itself has a responsibility to prepare for the Brexit. We actively communicate with business, for example by setting up Brexit vouchers. Through thorough preparation, the economic damage can be kept to a minimum. Customs services consist of information to businesses. The customs authorities also have several channels available for this purpose. So a real course in the sense of a leaflet and registering yourself isn't. Then we might come into discussions about the Market and Government Act. But there is also a great deal of information being done there. Mr Amhaouch was quite right to ask whether SMEs now have a lot of new regulatory pressure due to new rules in relation to the Brexit. There's almost no other way. If we do not reach agreement with the United Kingdom, there will be rules because the United Kingdom will become a third country. The European Commission itself carries out all these SME regulatory pressure tests, but now, as the Netherlands, it is doing an SME test on legislation coming here from the United Kingdom... You can do it, but it doesn't help much. The SME test that we are going to do is to show what the new rules mean for SMEs and whether they can do otherwise. Mr. Van der Lee asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u177	If you'll just wait a moment. Mr Amhaouch has an interruption, which we have all been looking forward to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u178	I'll come back to that education. We have identified two things. We believe it is important that both customs and NVWA provide clear information. The Secretary of State just said there's going to be road shows. I do not know exactly how that goes, but she did mention the good geographical distribution in the country. I have the question to the Secretary of State whether customs and NVWA, apart from a course, can provide information evenings. Another point, following on from this and the concerns that Mr Veldman had about reaching people, is that we are struggling a little bit with the question of how to reach those large numbers of companies. My first contribution was: let us also use the existing infrastructure. Each SME entrepreneur or business has a bank. Every SME has an accountant. Every SME must be in the Chamber of Commerce. How can we use this infrastructure to reach SMEs? Would the Secretary of State also consider whether we can make better use of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u179	I would almost like to say that an accountant who does not once have a conversation with his client about the forthcoming Brexit may have to scratch himself behind his ears. Actually, I'm assuming that's what's happening. Mr Amhouach is absolutely right that the Chamber of Commerce is, of course, a major partner of entrepreneurs. There is already a lot of information about this. Customs also provide information for entrepreneurs. At the regional meetings we are going to hold, there is, of course, also talk of consequences for customs and cross-border traffic. I had come to a question from Mr Van der Lee. I thought it was a funny question. "Funny" might be a wrong word, "interesting" you say here. He wants to create a Brexit branding line. Imagine it going wrong on March 29, 2019. What's that? Companies can already ask questions at the Brexit Loket and that is not only online. There's even a phone number for: 0800 - 0235327. I still have two folders with a few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u180	There is still an interruption by Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u181	That phone number was already known to me. I'm glad the Secretary of State is advertising that. My question was more: how do you deal with it when the Brexit has been realized and these problems occur in practice? Now the policy is rightly aimed at anticipating and preparing, but there will soon be a situation of chaos, because you have a transitional period. Doesn't it take something special to solve very acute situations? That's what that Brexit branding line was all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u182	That's how I listened to him. Should it go wrong on 29 March 2019 at night at one second after twelve if the Brexit is a fact, we will of course continue along the same path, namely try to manage everything as well as possible. That goes without saying. Mr Amhaouch and Mr Azarkan asked questions about the capacity of customs and NVWA. Customs started the first recruitment round for new customs officers in early March. These will be trained from June onwards. A new recruitment round is planned for approximately 150 places every three months. The next round is scheduled around 1 June. This cycle continues until mid 2019. Is it already known whether the lead times of the training courses at NVWA and customs can be shortened? It goes without saying that they will do their utmost to ensure that training does not last longer than is necessary. You're gonna need an education, so it's gonna take some time. Mr Van der Lee and Mr Amhaouch asked me another question about the linking of the Dutch customs system with the customs system of the United Kingdom in order to be able to automatically exchange customs data. We continue to look at the possibility of facilitating trade as much as possible through data exchange. However, there are challenges in terms of potential limitations, such as data protection safeguards. This has to be agreed. For the rest, it must be a solution in the relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom, precisely because we are a customs union and have an internal market and the rules apply to all countries in the European Union. Then Mr Amhaouch asked the question: how are the British themselves preparing for the customs system? We have been informed that the British are also preparing themselves. But of course they are themselves responsible for their own preparation. There is still a great deal of uncertainty about the establishment of the customs system there. We are, of course, following developments closely. But this is a subject that should be addressed in particular in a discussion with the Secretary of State for Finance, which is about customs. Mr Amhaouch also asked me how the cabinet is going to ensure that Dutch entrepreneurs who trade fresh products by road, air or water brand as little of the Brexit as possible. I have said that it is our ambition to have a good, comprehensive trade agreement, while maintaining smooth market access, where it is important to avoid not only tariff barriers but also non-tariff barriers. Ideally, import and export procedures and transit requirements should be streamlined. Control and inspection systems should be mutually recognised. This is particularly true when it comes to fresh products. That is something that is really being called for in Europe. The importance of the Dutch sector is certainly also called for. We are in contact with the Commission on this issue both at political and technical level. Recently, a delegation from the European Commission has also made a working visit to the airport of Schiphol and the port of Rotterdam to see how it works, to talk to stakeholders and to see what these logistics processes look like. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the last folder, with four more questions in it. Can the Cabinet give an update on what the trade agreement is going to look like? Of course, that's very difficult. I wish I knew, because if I knew, we could tell entrepreneurs: that's what it's supposed to be and this is what you've got to prepare for. But as I said, that love has to come from both sides. We are also dependent on the decision-making process in the United Kingdom. But in view of the great economic interests, of course, we remain involved. Let's see. I have already answered this question. Then I'm gonna let this go too. Mr President, I am actually done. I'm coming to a closure. Mr. Chairman. I cannot give guarantees, but I can assure you of the tireless commitment of my colleagues and myself in the Cabinet to ensure, within the negotiations as well as in the preparations that we as a government are making, that we are also doing so in consultation with the business community, that, if we can, we suffer as little as possible from this remarkable decision by the United Kingdom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u183	Thank you. I would like to thank both directors for their comprehensive answers to all the questions. There is a need for a second deadline. A request was also made for a brief suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u184	I shall reopen the sitting and give the floor first to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u185	Mr. Chairman. This debate has certainly brought about new things. Just before the debate, we heard of the Brexit vouchers that companies can get and on which they can appeal. The Minister has indicated that we are not only going to look at companies that have a passport requirement with the EU, but that we are also trying to approach companies that are better placed in the EU because of their know-how or logistics. Those are nice steps. I would like to ask the same question for research facilities and universities. From my colleague in science, I just learned that the University of Warwick has just started a collaboration with the Vrije Universiteit Brussel and the University of Paris, the 57th university in the world. As far as we are concerned, we are going to do the same with other universities. As regards the efforts in London, the Minister mentioned a business-to-consumer solution for a business-to-business question or a government-to-business question. Do we organise activities for entrepreneurs who may be interested? Maybe that's the business-to-business approach. The Dutch embassy does that for Dutch entrepreneurs in the United Kingdom, to prepare itself. Thanks to the Secretary of State for the Entrepreneur's Square. Our question is whether this will also be extended by looking at whether we are giving all the information. Then I have another motion, about the shovel. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands has an attractive locational environment for foreign companies;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands Foreign Investment Agency focuses on attracting foreign investment, and is particularly successful in this regard,]] [[Whereas many UK-based companies want to continue to be part of the European Single Market and consider moving their activities to the European mainland;]] [[whereas the Brexit also offers opportunities for the Dutch economy and may result in positive externalities, which is underlined by Dutch entrepreneurs and organisations such as ONL;]] [[Considering that in 2017 only 18 out of more than 200 interested companies chose to relocate their activities to the Netherlands, despite the deployment of additional staff in the NFIA on this specific task;]] [[calls on the Government to work together with the partners of the Invest in Holland collective and entrepreneurial organisations to attract more UK-based companies and to inform the Chamber of the results thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Veldman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23987-232]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u186	Mr. Chairman. In my introduction in the first period I mentioned quite a number of amounts. The first 10 to 15 billion have to do with food, fresh products, meat and so on. It doesn't matter what agreement comes out, at the CDA we think it's very important that we always pay attention to the quick handling of these products. It will not benefit anyone if it does not, both the people in the UK and the Dutch. That's why I put in the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Brexit may lead to long waiting periods;]] [[Whereas fresh products such as flowers, fruit, vegetables and meat are particularly vulnerable to waiting times;]] [[calls on the Government to make maximum efforts in Europe to ensure that fresh products can be exported to the United Kingdom with as little delay as possible even after the Brexit;]] [[Invites the Government to report on measures taken and to be taken before 1 September 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Veldman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23987-233]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u187	The next motion relates to good information, but more importantly: if we get new legislation soon, we will have to pass the SME test. At least the minimum administrative burden for SMEs in implementation is also clearly set out in the government agreement. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Brexit entails major changes for Dutch entrepreneurs;]] [[Whereas SMEs often have less capacity to prepare themselves optimally for the consequences of the Brexit, which means that special attention is given to this issue;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that information on the Brexit to SMEs is organised in the best possible and timely manner and in new laws and regulations resulting from the Brexit review of the administrative burden on SMEs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23987-234]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u188	Mr. Chairman. I am disappointed in the answer to the question of helping people from work to work, because the Brexit really is an exceptional situation. That's why I'd like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is desirable to mitigate not only the economic impact but also the social impact of the Brexit;]] [[calls on the government, in cooperation with the social partners, to develop an approach to encourage workers who lose their jobs to be helped by the Brexit from work to work,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23987-235]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u189	I believe that everyone supports the objectives described by Mr Moorlag. People are likely to lose their jobs in specific sectors and in specific areas, and indeed we need to help them. But do you think that it is already clear enough where those jobs could disappear in order to really prepare for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u190	I would advise Mr Paternotte to take a look at yesterday's Financial Daily. A fishing company and shipping company in Katwijk says: if there is no agreement for fishing, 600 jobs will disappear. At this stage, it is best to develop a broad approach. And then you say, if that kind of situation is going to happen, that hard Brexit with those hard social consequences, then there's just a bundled effort with the UWV and a task force to see how, when that turns out, you can help people from work to work as soon as possible. This is earned by a reduction in the WW benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u191	Thank you. Mr Paternotte, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u192	I read the Financial Daily of yesterday almost every day. I have indeed seen that piece, and indeed we are now fishing almost all of the United Kingdom's fishing quotas. So yes, those effects are to be expected, but you are right to say that it depends on the treaty that is to come. And then it matters quite a bit whether you should accompany fishermen or, for example, flower sellers to new work. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u193	Yeah, that situation could happen, too. But you can just say that there is the threat of large-scale dismissal if it doesn't end well and then you better take a preventive approach. You cannot discuss this with the social partners early enough. Mr President, my second motion. The Secretary of State has said that a level playing field is important. So does the PvdA, but we want that to be more specific. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the real negotiations on the Brexit are only beginning;]] [[noting that trade agreements only work if everyone benefits from them;]] [[calls on the government in new trade agreements with the UK to ensure that the position of workers, environmental standards, health and labour do not deteriorate and make firm agreements to combat tax avoidance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23987-236]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u194	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to make a comment about Mr Baudet. He claimed that a generous offer had been made over that Irish border. I would advise Mr Baudet to take note of the situation, both in Northern Ireland and in the south. There, people are highly dissatisfied with the disappearance of the open borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u195	This calls for a response from Mr Baudet. I'm giving him the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u196	You say that people are highly dissatisfied with the disappearance of open borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u197	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u198	But the point is that the United Kingdom has offered to keep the border with Ireland completely open. That's the whole point, and that's what I brought in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u199	But that's not right. If that were the case, there would not be so much unrest, both in Northern Ireland and in the south. I am well known in that country; my mother comes from there. You can see that there is enormous resistance in that country to the prospect of a Brexit like the British Government that is now pursuing. From that point of view, Mr Baudet can therefore say that it is a generous offer, but it is certainly not experienced as such in both Northern Ireland and the south.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u200	Thank you. I shall be the last to give the floor to Mr Baudet because he was provoked by Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u201	This is just bullshit. The European Union is the only party to the negotiations that has said: no, open borders must not be allowed. The United Kingdom has simply said that we do not need to control the border, as it is not now. The reason is that only a very small percentage of all goods that the United Kingdom receives through that border; I believe it is 5%. It is therefore of no importance to the United Kingdom either. So yes, there is concern in Ireland, but that is because of the EU's attitude. That is why I have argued in favour of us calling on Barnier at the European Council because he is trying to turn it into a political issue. That's the whole point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u202	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Lee for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm actually very satisfied. I see a passionate involvement in the Brexit and, above all, in the consequences it can have for the Dutch economy. I also have confidence in the approach and the proactive way in which the cabinet is doing its best to take business with it and prepare it. But there remains a piece of responsibility of its own. I mean, anyone could have really gotten this decision right now. It is not only up to the government to ensure that all these 36,000 companies are reached. Companies have to think for themselves, and I'm sure they will. I am also pleased that the Minister once again supports and wants to broaden the ETS. I have an encouragement on one point and I have just written a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the United Kingdom's preparations for Brexit are lagging behind those of the Netherlands and, in addition, their digital customs systems appear to be outdated;]] [[whereas both the United Kingdom and the Netherlands benefit from the most efficient communication between digital customs systems;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a bilateral task force to promote communication between digital customs systems as efficient and up-to-date as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Moorlag and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23987-237]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u204	Finally, I am pleased that the Secretary of State supports the idea of a bexit brand line. So I am not going to table a motion on this either, but I hope to see some effect on that in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u205	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Veldman of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u206	Mr. Chairman. "I wonder if the urgency is sufficiently felt." Those were the words of the director of the Rotterdam entrepreneurial organisation Deltalinqs. And the Secretary of State is right to say that companies have a responsibility. But in my first term, I indicated that the government also has a responsibility. The Secretary of State could have an exciting role, take the lead, take the lead, along with all the other partners, to ensure that these 35,000 companies are reached. After this debate, I do not yet have the impression that this sense of urgency is sufficiently visible to the Secretary of State and therefore the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Brexit will take place in less than a year;]] [[noting that 35,000 Dutch companies are doing business in the United Kingdom;]] [[Whereas the Brexit will have a major impact on SMEs, among others;]] [[Whereas SMEs often have less capacity to prepare themselves as fully as possible for the consequences of the Brexit, which means that an active campaign for this purpose is important;]] [[calls on the Government to come up with a plan to actively inform SMEs about the impact of the Brexit;]] [[calls on the Government to report periodically to the Chamber on the progress of preparations for the consequences of the Brexit and to make it clear what results have been achieved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Veldman, Mr Amhaouch and Mr Paternotte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23987-238]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u207	Thank you, Madam President. Members of the public, I would like to table a motion in addition to my speech to this effect, because I think it is extremely important that we, as a Chamber, send a signal to the government and that the government will then send a signal to the European Council. We really must try everything we can to thwart the political games that the Eurocrats want to play. The Netherlands has a lot of interest in a business deal, a business approach to the Brexit and that's just not the case right now. Barnier's playing a game, Verhofstadt's playing a game. They all see their chance to realise the great political ambitions and that is at the expense of a country like the Netherlands. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the United Kingdom is the second export partner for the Netherlands and the interests of Dutch entrepreneurs are high;]] [[Whereas the KPMG report presented shows that a Brexit would lead to economic damage for the Netherlands without agreement;]] [[whereas neither the Netherlands nor the United Kingdom would benefit from a bad trade agreement to make a political statement;]] [[Whereas the economic interests of the Member States should be paramount;]] [[Whereas, pursuant to Article 50 of the EU Treaty, the European Council ultimately determines the mandate of the EU to conduct negotiations with the United Kingdom;]] [[whereas the main European negotiator, Mr Barnier, can therefore be directed by the Council;]] [[calls on the Government to insist at the European Council that the economic interests of the Member States be prioritised in the negotiations over all other considerations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23987-239]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u208	That's right, Mr. Chairman. If I turn to the motion and what Mr Baudet says, he assumes the premise that the problems of the United Kingdom are now caused by the intransigence of the Eurocrats, as he calls them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u209	The problems during the negotiations, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u210	Then my question is, since you now see, probably to your disappointment, that these Eurocrats, in your words, are playing political games, whether you would like to turn the Netherlands over to the same intransigence of the Eurocrats by taking the Netherlands out of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u211	That "are surrendered" is what we are when we are in the European Union, Mr Paternotte. That's one of the big problems. And yes, of course you have to negotiate with these Eurocrats temporarily when you get out, but that's even better than a perpetual servant, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u212	Mr Paternotte, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u213	We are not, of course, if we are in the European Union, otherwise you would not be putting forward a motion to the government: turn your influence to move Europe to something better. There is no point, of course, in doing so in London, because, as you yourself say, London is at the mercy of the Eurocrats. Can we not be better placed in the European Union with influence than outside, where England only has you to look at?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u214	The question is somewhat broader than just the motion, but finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u215	You have a little influence on a process that you would otherwise be completely in control of. If we are not in the European Union, what a wonderful thought! We could conclude a wonderful agreement with the United Kingdom without any difficulty. In fact, we would have closed it a long time ago. I am convinced that the Netherlands and the United Kingdom could have reached such an agreement within a very short time without any problem. The fact that this is not the case at the moment is indeed due to the unwillingness of the other European countries and the Eurocrats themselves. Nevertheless, we must do everything we can to get the most attractive agreement possible, but there can be no doubt about the fact that we could do much more easily outside the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u216	Thank you very much. The directors have indicated that they need about five minutes to provide the motions with an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u217	Eight motions have been tabled. One of them is addressed to the Minister. First of all, I give him the floor to give his judgment. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u218	One motion, namely the one in part No. 307 by Mr Paternotte and Mr Veldman. Mr Paternotte asks one question in advance, namely whether we are also organising activities from NFIA. There is of course the weekly folk dance with British SMEs and animal guessing with stock exchange analysts from the city... I would rather answer for the results, as requested in the motion, than for the activities. I shall leave this motion to the House's judgment. It makes sense to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u219	Thank you. Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State. There were a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u220	That's right, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. Mr Paternotte asked me whether I would like to take a broader look than just on the Entrepreneur's Square or whether there are any expressions that do not fully express the urgency of this issue. Yes, we are going to, but if you are going to, or Mr Paternotte, I should say one more, do not leave it to report it. That's how we're strong together in this discussion. Mr Azarkan, who is no longer here, asked about the CBS figures of, I believe, the third quarter 2016. Statistics have a somewhat longer processing time, especially because of the different sources. I expect to get the most up-to-date figures on the export value 2017 within one month and I will inform the Court of Justice accordingly. Then I'll get to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u221	Before you begin, Mr Paternotte has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u222	I have asked another question about cooperation with universities, which, of course, have a great interest in staying within European research programmes and are therefore now looking at dependances, campuses and partnerships. I referred to the example of the University of Warwick, which made agreements with the Free University of Brussels and the Université Paris Seine this week. What can you do to promote that? Is that part of the Brexit strategy, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u223	I should check this out with my colleague from OCW, who deals with the universities. I suggest that I return to that in writing later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u224	About when?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u225	That's a little dependent on my colleague. I'd say three weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u226	Fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u227	Then the motion to part No. Mr Amhaouch and Mr Veldman, on the report on measures taken in relation to fresh products. I shall leave this motion to the House's judgment. The Minister of LNV has a very good picture of these interests and this is discussed regularly in Brussels. Given the great interests of agro-exports for the Netherlands, we will continue to lobby on this. The Minister of LNV will certainly come back to this, for example in the context of the Agricultural Councils in Brussels. The motion in part No. 234 belongs to Mr Amhaouch. This motion concerns information for small and medium-sized enterprises. I fully agree with timely information on this. For all legislation it is important to check for administrative burdens, especially in the case of Brexit. I said a few things about the rest in the first term. Then I come to the motion on part No. 235.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u228	And your judgment is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u229	Judgment Room. That's what I think I started with. I'm sorry. Then I come to the motion by Mr Moorlag and Mr Van der Lee, which calls on the government, in cooperation with the social partners, to develop an approach to encourage workers who lose their jobs through the Brexit, to be helped from work to work. As much as I see the importance of the workers in this discussion, I must now discourage this motion. The consequences are not yet to be seen. In the end, workers benefit from employment, which we want to ensure through proper preparation of entrepreneurs. Then I come to the motion on part No. 236 of Mr Van der Lee, Mr Moorlag and Mr Azarkan, on setting up a bilateral task force to promote as efficient and up-to-date communication as possible between the UK and the Netherlands' digital customs systems. I advise against this motion. I don't think it's wise to run ahead... I think I'm on the wrong motion right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u230	The motion in part No. 236.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u231	Let's see. Here's the motion. I advise against this motion. I started reading something I thought was wrong with the motion. This motion goes against the unity between the 27 European Member States. The first priority is a European solution. This is without prejudice to the fact that, as I pointed out in the first period, we are following developments on the other side of the North Sea very closely, also on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u232	This motion does not mean that we, as the Netherlands, will conclude exclusive trade agreements with the United Kingdom. Would it help if I added to the operative part of the motion to pursue it at EU level?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u233	I think there's two things going on right now. There are two motions. I'm just gonna start over, Mr. Chairman. First of all, there is the Moorlag/Van der Lee motion in part No. 236, which calls on the government to ensure in new trade agreements with the UK that the position of workers and environmental, health and labour standards do not deteriorate. I do not recommend this motion because I do not think it is wise to anticipate trade agreements now. That's way too premature. There are also a number of other interests that need to be taken into account. In the other motion which includes Mr Moorlag, together with Mr Van der Lee and Mr Azarkan, the government is invited to set up a bilateral task force between the UK and the EU. I would advise against this motion because it goes against the unity of the 27 European countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u234	That last motion is the motion in part No. 237.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u235	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u236	The motion in part No. 236 and the motion in part No. 237 are therefore both dissuaded. I see that Mr Moorlag wishes to respond. What motion is it about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u237	On the motion in part No. 236. The operative part of this motion states the importance of ensuring a level playing field. I understand the Secretary of State attaches great importance to this. Dissuading this motion would imply that there is no need for a level playing field in new trade agreements on these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u238	But there are many other issues that matter. Think of intellectual property and state aid discussions. It's really too premature. Mr Moorlag is way ahead of all the discussions that are still going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u239	I see that Mr Van der Lee also wishes to respond. I assume that his question on the motion for a resolution in part No. 237 goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u240	That's right. My question concerns the motion for a resolution on item No. 237. I would like to suggest a change in the operative part: 'calls on the government to promote the creation of a European task force that promotes the most efficient and up-to-date communication possible between digital customs systems'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u241	Here too, in my opinion, there is one component, although a very important one, which is pre-sorted for one specific solution. In addition, it is also important how all the different companies fit in, so I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u242	Then the motion to part No. 238.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u243	The operative part of that motion by Mr Veldman, Mr Amhaouch and Mr Paternotte states that "the government is asking for a plan of action to actively inform SMEs about the consequences of the Brexit, and calls on the government to report periodically to the Chamber on the progress of preparations for the consequences of the Brexit." If I may explain the motion as follows, I would like to leave it to the Chamber. This afternoon, the Chamber received a letter in which several proposals are made on how entrepreneurs can be informed and helped in an upcoming Brexit. There will be another letter in which the cabinet will inform the Chamber about a contingency coordination unit, which I have also discussed today. I will list all these various initiatives for the Chamber. The Chamber is then regularly informed about the preparation for the Brexit by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and EZK. We will continue to do so. If I may explain the motion in this way, I would like to leave it to the Chamber, given the importance of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u244	I do not want to start a semantic discussion about the difference between a plan of approach and more a list of what is happening, as I read in this afternoon's letter. The most important thing in the operative part is that the Chamber is informed of the results achieved. I'd just like to stick to that. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to take into account in her reading of the motion that, in the reports she sends to the Chamber, she also explicitly clarifies the results of the efforts she makes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u245	But then we may have a semantic discussion about what Mr Veldman means by 'the results'. In my opinion, what the cabinet is already doing to provide information to the Chamber from different ministries has been extended. I find it difficult to make an additional commitment for my colleagues. Also because I do not fully understand what Mr Veldman is looking for. The provision of information has, rightly in view of all the interests that exist, been extremely extensive from the cabinet. Mr Veldman and other authors can count on us continuing to do so. This is also almost periodic, because we have several European Councils on which we inform the Chamber. With that explanation, I leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u246	Just as sharp: I notice a difference of interpretation about this motion. If Mr. Veldman does not accept your interpretation, do you advise against the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u247	That's correct, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u248	Finally, Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u249	In this sense, I do not find the reference to European Councils so interesting, because I am sure there will be a lot of talk about what the Brexit will look like. This is also what I am talking about in the recitals: those 35,000 companies which are now suddenly faced with a frontier. As I stated in my term, I would like us as a government to have an active role in helping the companies on the way, where they do not find the way themselves. That is my request for a plan of action. It is also my request to make clear the results of the efforts we are making.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u250	I want to be extremely interested in Mr Veldman, so I am really looking for a way to do that. The tricky thing is that that again puts a lot of administrative pressure on our side. We must then get a picture of how many people access websites and how many people call and e-mail the Chamber of Commerce. I find that a difficult question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u251	May I conclude, then, that you have a different interpretation and that you are thereby dissuading the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u252	Yes, that's correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u253	Thank you. Continue with motion in part No. 239.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u254	The motion in part No. 239 by Mr Baudet. It calls on the government to insist at the European Council that the economic interests of the Member States be prioritised in the negotiations over all other considerations. I advise against this motion. Mr Barnier is also negotiating with the United Kingdom on our behalf. In fact, the approach has worked so far. There are now two different chords on the table. The European Union has a strong view of the economic interests of the Netherlands as well. There are also many other interests, such as food, animal feed legislation, animal welfare, animal health, plant health, plant protection products, intellectual property, legal enforcement, I mention all of them, all subjecting them to very important agreements. We are no longer used to having such an intimate relationship with a country that is not part of the European Union. I am afraid Mr Baudet underestimates the consequences of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u255	Thank you. A response to your motion by Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u256	How are all those other things the Secretary of State mentions not part of an economic negotiation? The point is that all these things, the agreements on animals, on raw materials and that sort of thing, relate to trade. The opposite of that, or what that might undermine, is the desire to make it a political statement. That's the point. The Secretary of State basically endorses the point of my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u257	This motion was initiated by words as if a game were to be played from the European Commission. I don't agree with that. I see no different than that in the interests of a large number of Member States of the European Union I have just listed them: the Netherlands, Ireland, France, Germany, Denmark, all of them are just being negotiated with the United Kingdom in order to make agreements that affect us all. The introduction of the motion also contradicts the way the cabinet looks at these negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u258	Unfortunately, you don't find each other. That is why we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-12.u259	Vote on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday. I thank both directors for their contribution tonight, the MPs and the viewers at home.
