ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, on behalf of D66, we will address Mr Grothuizen's questions to the Minister for Legal Protection about a shortage of judges in Middelburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The court in Middelburg has recently tried with additional hearings to get the waiting period for divorce cases to an acceptable level. People who got divorced sometimes had to wait a year until their case was decided. That is, of course, unacceptable for a long time. Divorce is very profound in itself, but if you have to wait another year for a decision, it becomes completely tragic. People want to know what they are up to with regard to the alimony to be paid or to be received and with regard to the children. Let me make no mistake about it: sometimes, unfortunately, legal procedures are inevitable, but if they are to be carried out, they must be carried out as quickly as possible. That seems to have gone quite wrong in this case. The big question is how did this happen? The message on the webpage of the NOS talks about a shortage of judges. I have a number of questions for the Minister for Legal Affairs. Is it true that the waiting period was caused by a shortage of judges? Is it true that this problem has now been resolved? If so, how has it been corrected? How does the Minister look at the efficiency problems in the Zeeland-West-Brabant court about which the lawyer speaks? What about other courts? Are there other places where similar problems exist? Can the Minister indicate the average waiting time for divorces across all courts in the country? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-5.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. It is, of course, undesirable that divorce proceedings should be delayed. This is very bad for citizens' sense of justice and for the effectiveness of justice. That said, there are sometimes peak taxes on dishes; in this case a temporary shortage of staff. I'm afraid this is of all times and this can never be completely prevented. Then the question is, how do you solve this? This was also the case in Zeeland. In the meantime, this problem is almost complete, I would say, but perhaps I should be more careful to put it mildly. In total, 159 cases of conflict were pending, 107 of which were scheduled for plenary session and another 20 were due to be held shortly. Then Mr Grothuizen's question was whether this has to do with financial problems. I have the impression that this is not the case. It has more to do with friction between jurisdictions and the fact that newly recruited judges are not immediately properly trained. I therefore hope that divorce cases can reach acceptable lead times more quickly. When I look at the current situation in the case law, we read in the 2017 annual report of the case law that the case law manages to remove the vast majority, 95%, within a year and in the case of divorces on a joint request, that is within two months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thank you to the Minister for the answers, but he has left a number of questions. I asked him, among other things, how he looks at the efficiency problems that the lawyer claims to be the subject of the report of the NIS. I also asked him about other courts. The Minister's talking about peak load. I find it a bit complex to understand, because is there much more separation in Zeeland than in other parts of the country? I'd like to know more about that. What about those other courts and what's the average waiting time? The Minister is right to say that there are financial problems in the case-law. I'd like to know a little bit more about that. We have heard before about delays in justice, in the north of the country at the Leeuwarden court and earlier in criminal matters at the Zeeland-West-Brabant court, the same court we are talking about. I hear very often that court presidents are reluctant to attract new judges precisely because there are financial bottlenecks. This means that you cannot train people in time and that at some point you run into these problems. Does the Minister recognize that image of the reluctant filling of vacancies? Does the Minister agree with me that it is important that we continue to select and train enough people to have good judges in the future? After all, it is a difficult subject and you cannot just open a can of judges once you have a peak tax. Finally, I would like to ask another question in this block. We are talking about divorce, and sometimes, as I said, you have to follow a procedure, but very often that is not the best method either. Does the Minister see any other options to settle in divorce cases? Is that what he's doing? Can he lift a tip of the veil if that's the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-5.u6	I'll start with the question of where the problem is. Mr Groothuizen asks about such a peak load. Sometimes this has to do with the fact that there is a somewhat faster influx of business in a given area or that there is a temporary reduction in staff due to personnel changes. This does not only happen in Zeeland, it also happens in other areas in the country, for example, but often on other things. In my opinion, Northern Netherlands and family affairs are an example of this that we discussed earlier in the Chamber. Mr Groothuizen also asks whether it is due to efficiency problems. I do not know exactly what the lawyer is talking about, but I think it would be wise for the President of the Court to have a discussion with the local order there to see what that means and whether lessons can be learned from it. Then he asks whether there is any restraint in the judiciary in attracting judges. I don't have that image. Even if you look at 2017 you will see a growth in the number of judges, with 167 fte, even for the purposes of agreements called "professional standards," but still. So the number of judges in the Netherlands has increased. And we have now made an agreement before 2019 that the existing deficits in the courts will be compensated. So there's no reason to be reluctant either. I would also like it if that were to happen, because Mr Grothuizen is quite right: you do not just open a can of judges, you have to train judges, it is a difficult profession and we want good judges. It therefore takes time to prepare ourselves for the future and any fluctuations that occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. In the second term, there will be a bit more clarity. I am very happy to hear him say: it cannot be that we do not fill vacancies, because it is indeed a difficult profession and we must ensure that we always have that up to date. D66 attaches great importance to our justice, as you know, Mr President. As far as I am concerned, it is also important for people to have the idea that they can really get to justice of a solution to their problem. This also means that they have a ruling within a reasonable period of time. We will continue to follow this issue. I believe that the financing of justice will still be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Bosman, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-5.u9	It is a good thing that Zeeland is paying attention. As a citizen of Middelburg, I know better than anyone how important it is that this court in Middelburg is there and can be used. With regard to the case law and the available judges, my colleague Van Oosten and Mr Van Dam have tabled a motion to make use of the availability of judges in the country. Can the Minister indicate to what extent he is going to implement this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-5.u10	There have been discussions with the Justice Council to see how we can implement this. This calls for a more activist attitude from the Council in the area of justice. In addition, this requires an adjustment of the rules. I am currently working on a legislative proposal that makes it possible to deal with too many cases where there are too many, which leave them lying for too long, in other courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-5.u11	We ask a lot of justice when it comes to capacity and quality. That is why D66 also considers it important to see how we can deal with the judges as efficiently as possible. Does the Minister want to examine whether there might be a solution to divorce, in simple cases, if there are no children, without the intervention of a judge?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-5.u12	I am glad that Mrs Bergkamp is asking that question again, because then I realized that it was a question that Mr Grothuizen had asked, but I forgot to answer it. Oh, yeah. The Divorce without Damage programme is precisely designed to eliminate lighter forms of divorce proceedings with the least possible use of the courts; less the model where two ex-lovers are faced with each other and sometimes there is too long a process, sometimes causing a lot of harm to children. So I'm sure I can see that. I have also made follow-up agreements with my colleague Hugo de Jonge and André Rouvoet, who is in charge of this programme, on how we can give concrete form to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr. Chairman. Financial problems in justice. Now it is about Zeeland, but also in other places in the country there are financial problems, there are too few judges and the workload is too high. Last week, we read in the newspaper that the Minister for Legal Protection may be planning to rule out large jurisdictions for people who want to get their rights. I have not yet seen these plans, but my question to the Minister for Legal Protection is: how could all this have come to this? And when is the Minister for Legal Protection going to put the interests of those who want to achieve their rights back at the centre?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-5.u14	That's what I do every day. For this, we need a good judiciary, which will deal with and dispose of cases as quickly as possible, in a high-quality way. This requires access to the law and, if necessary, access to justice. For this we have in the Netherlands a system of legal aid that squeaks and cracks. In fact, that seems to be completely tied up. So we need to organise this in a different way. As you know, I am currently very busy with a lot of people involved to see how we can shape this differently. I promised you that after the summer. Then you can say, "That's it now." I can tell you that I am going to do everything in my power to have it in your Chamber at least for the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-02-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. and then we shall vote.
