ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the questions by Mr Aukje de Vries of the VVD to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, in the absence of the Minister for Medical Care. Those questions are about the message: "Parkinsonian patient flees to Belgium." Mrs De Vries has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister knows a lot of things, as it turns out. Last Saturday, De Telegraaf reported that parkinson patients are fleeing to Belgium, because many people have to wait up to two years for a so-called DBS treatment. If you consider that parkinson is a progressive disease, which means that the patient's condition may deteriorate during this waiting period, we have to note that this is a major problem. Of course, you would like to experience something that far-reaching as close as possible. I therefore do not think that people should move abroad for treatment. I think we should take care of that ourselves. In response to previous questions from the VVD, the Minister indicated that a suitable and timely alternative is available in the region for patients in most specialities exceeding the standard of waiting times. This does not appear to be the case with DBS treatment for Parkinson' s patients. Is this correct or does the Minister also consider Belgium to be the region? Understanding waiting times, waiting-list mediation and cooperation arrangements would be the solution, according to the Minister's previous answers. But if there is too little capacity, what does the Minister do? Is there a shortage of treatment centers? In Belgium there are 14 and in the Netherlands only six. The Parkinson's Association says that legislation makes it difficult to open new centres. Is that right? What's it gonna take to make this easier? Is it true that DBS centres in the Netherlands refuse Dutch patients who have been helped in Belgium for aftercare? Does the Minister agree with the VVD that this is undesirable? How does the exchange of patient data go, for example, if the patient is experiencing complications? What will the Minister do to ensure that aftercare can take place in the Netherlands? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you to the President and thank you to Mrs De Vries for the questions. I am indeed answering these questions on behalf of my colleague for Medical Care and Sport. It's an important subject. DBS, Deep Brain Stimulation, is a complex neurosurgical procedure, which can indeed provide some relief for Parkinson's patients. It is also an important treatment, which is covered by the Special Medical Operations Act. That is to say, a permit from the US Secretary of State is required. It is true what Mrs De Vries says; that at the moment there are six centres licensed. Last April, a seventh licence was issued, namely at Radboud University. That is where we are now in the process of becoming operational, so it is already being ensured that there will be a little more capacity. Mrs De Vries asks whether it is true that it is taking a very long time and that the waiting period has risen. That's right. The waiting period is longer than the profession would like. The profession itself has indicated that a six-month waiting period is desirable, also because it is important to think carefully about the treatment. It is a complex treatment, with some waiting times acceptable. However, the waiting period has now risen to over a year, which is too long. I think that's an undesirable situation too. Mrs De Vries asks if there is a shortage of centres. As indicated, we issued a permit last year at Radboud University, which allows the number of centres to reach seven. But I am also prepared to ask the NZa what bottlenecks it sees and whether the supply matches the demand for treatment. Mrs De Vries also asks whether legislation is difficult. As I have indicated, this is covered by the Law on Special Medical Operations. That is also important, because this is a very complex procedure. In doing so, it is important that we can really guarantee quality. So it's okay to take that test. We don't just want to make it possible anywhere, because it's really a specialist procedure. However, if centres apply for a licence, we will certainly look favourably at it. So there is no unwillingness or blockade. Mrs De Vries asks whether it is difficult or perhaps impossible for patients who have had treatment in Belgium to receive follow-up care in the Netherlands. The Dutch Association for Neurosurgery acknowledges that it can be difficult to find a chief caregiver in the Netherlands. It is therefore particularly important that we focus on sufficient capacity in the Netherlands. That would be the first solution. Since the waiting list is now long, I would also like to see if it is possible to check with the existing centres if there is any rack in their capacity. So we first see if there are any possibilities to offer more before we go through the entire licensing circuit. Mrs De Vries also asks whether the exchange of patient data between Belgium and the Netherlands is easy. I have had little time to look into that precisely, so I would like to come back to that in writing. I think there's gonna be an AO Medical Specialist care soon. Before then, I will have the information sent to the Chamber through my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thank you. In any case, it is recognised that it is a problem that needs to be solved. That's always the starting point. It is also important to have additional capacity. I am pleased that the NZa and the Ministry are looking at how bottlenecks can be solved. I still have a question about the health insurance companies, because they must also make efforts to ensure that their insured persons receive timely, high-quality and accessible care. That's part of their duty of care. I wonder what the health insurance companies will do. The Minister has already indicated his willingness to consult with the NZa. I ask the Minister to talk to both the health insurers, treatment centres and the NZA as well as the Parkinson's Association, to see how we can resolve those waiting times. It is my preference that the House of Representatives should be informed of this at least before 1 April next.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u6	I have already indicated that I would like to hear from the NZa how the demand for treatment will develop. I understand that the treatment is being applied increasingly, because it can provide some relief not only for Parkinson's patients but also for other diseases. The number of diseases is therefore increasing, but also the number of people with this disease. In order to get an exact insight into that, I think it is important to have the NZa look at that. I will also ask the NZa to check whether the health insurance companies comply with their duty of care. I must say that I now have no evidence that they do not comply, but I would like to take this into account in the investigation I will ask of the NZa. In addition, I am prepared to discuss it. In any case, I will ask the Radboud how quickly it can open the new centre. I will also report to you on this, as I have already indicated, on whether the existing centres are still a bit disrespectful in terms of the number of treatments they can take care of. I will also talk to the Dutch Society for Neurosurgery to see what her image is and if she still sees possibilities. I think the Parkinson's Association will be included in this. I'll try to send that information to the Chamber for the AO. I don't know if it all works out, but what we have, we'll send.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you. Mrs. De Vries, finally?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you for the commitments and I look forward to the additional information.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u9	Then Mrs Ellemeet from GroenLinks has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u10	The Minister talks about waiting times, which are unacceptablely long. There is also uncertainty about the waiting times themselves at these six centres, because different sizes are measured. At one center, the counter will turn when the first call has taken place. At another center, it doesn't work until the first screening has taken place. Uniformity is very desirable, so that we all know what waiting times are included. Is the Minister prepared to talk to these centres so that we can work with uniform waiting times?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u11	As I have just indicated, we are going to look with the centres to see if there is any possibility of increasing the number of treatments they offer. I don't know if that's possible, but that's what we're gonna look at anyway. I think that at that point we can see exactly how the waiting times are measured and when they begin to count. I have to say that I do not have a great deal of insight into this myself. I do not know whether we can impose uniformation from above, but I am willing to ask my colleague for Medical Care and Sport to take this aspect with us when we talk to the centres. I assume that they will report on this in the written reply, which has just been promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mrs Ellemeet, your second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u13	Thank you. It's good to hear this. I have also received such signals that it depends on who is calling at one center with the question of how long the waiting times are. A journalist gets to hear other waiting times than, for example, the Parkinson's Association. Of course, that is certainly not the case. I ask the Minister to pass this on to her fellow minister so that this can also be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u14	It certainly shouldn't matter who's calling for what the waiting time is. I would certainly like to pass this on to my colleague, but otherwise he will certainly read it in the short-term report of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-20-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you to the Minister for coming to the Chamber. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time.
