ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the Law 34746, Amendment of the Code of Criminal Law, the Code of Criminal Procedure and some other laws to strengthen criminal and criminal possibilities to combat terrorism; briefly strengthening criminal counter-terrorism. We're at the government's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr President. It has already been recalled at the first term of the members of your Chamber that today's date is strongly linked to the subject we are discussing. I believe that the footage of the attacks, 17 years ago today, on the WTC towers and the Pentagon, but also of the plane that ultimately boarded itself in the ground thanks to an attempt by brave passengers, are forever in our memory. Almost 3,000 people were killed. The threat of jihadist terrorism has since become a reality for our Western society. I'm not gonna give you a summary of all the attacks that have happened since then. The terrorist threat has changed over the past ten years, as has been explained in the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands 48, but also in previous editions. The threat has come much closer. Since 2013-2014, terrorist groups such as Al-Qaeda and ISIS have land in Syria and Iraq and have networks in some of our neighbouring countries. Although ISIS has been defeated by military forces, it still has the means and the intention to commit attacks in the West, including in the Netherlands. Al-Qaeda too still wants to commit attacks in the West. The threat is more complex in nature. There are different types of perpetrators who can commit different types of attacks, both large and small, well prepared or improvised. We have seen terrible, diverse examples of this in recent years. Let me mention the attacks: in Brussels, Paris, Nice, Berlin, Manchester, London. The events in Amsterdam are still under investigation, but on the basis of the first investigation there are very strong indications that there was a terrorist motive. Moreover, the threat posed by Dutch homegrown jihadist networks has increased considerably. Over the past ten years, the Dutch jihadist movement has grown by a factor of ten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u4	The Minister just mentioned a number of cities where attacks have taken place. There were no Warsaw, Budapest, Bucharest. One of the questions I have asked, and perhaps this is the most appropriate time to do so, is whether the Minister agrees with me that this threat of terror and the terror are falling down in the places he mentioned, and not in Eastern Europe, and that this is not just a matter of policy. If you want to fight terror, you must also acknowledge the causes. Does the Minister recognise that the terror we have in Western Europe is the result of the policies pursued in those countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u5	Assuming that Mr Dercksen refers to 'those countries' as the Western European countries and not the Eastern European countries, I would say to him that it is not the case that terrorist attacks arise from policies in those Western European countries. It has already been recalled in the first term: terrorist acts are the terrorist and the organisation to be charged for them. If terrorists take advantage of a democratic, open society, that does not reduce their full responsibility for their actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u6	Yes, Chairman, that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u7	Mr. Dercksen, I wasn't as fast as you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u8	Yeah, excuse, excuse. That the terrorists are responsible for their actions, that goes without saying, we have no discussion about that. But if you say that this is not a result of policy, can you explain why it is that in Western Europe, Manchester, Nice, Brussels, Paris, Amsterdam, there is in the meantime also in Budapest, Bucharest, Warsaw, and you name it, right? Then what is your explanation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u9	I think it is very difficult to give a clear explanation for this. For example, you did not mention a city like Stockholm, but I do not know whether that was conscious or unconscious. I believe that we must all agree that we in Western Europe have a long tradition of open, democratic societies which have proved sensitive to certain types of terrorists in recent years, precisely because of our openness and our adherence to the rule of law. I think this is the only observation you can derive from this. This is one of the reasons why previous Cabinets, as well as this Cabinet, are very clearly committed to legislation aimed at combating this type of terrorist activity. This is also one of the reasons why counter-terrorist activities within the EU have been increasing in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u10	Mr. Dercksen, finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u11	Finally. This is, of course, the basis of the whole debate, if the Minister does not want to acknowledge that the terror we have in Western Europe lies in mass immigration, in the import of Islam into this country. I would like to mention Stockholm, or Sweden as a whole. There they now have 50 or 60 no-go zones, where you can no longer show up, where 90% of the population voted for the Socialists by mistake, in the past week. The basis of the debate is absent when this cabinet or this minister does not want to recognise that this is the result of policy and says that it is only an open society. You can also go to Poland and you can also go to Bucharest if you want to make an attack, but it happens here. And that's because we're Islamized and because we have mass immigration, which is facilitated by Cabinets like this and all previous ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u12	I will leave Mr Dercksen's analysis on his behalf. I think it is a good thing that he himself pointed out in his first term that, with the flows of refugees, people have indeed come here and there with very bad, if any, terrorist motives. Mr Dercksen's comment implies, however, that the bulk of these flows of refugees consisted of people who came here with purely refugee motives. Going back to the threat posed by those homegrown jihadist networks, I said that with a factor of ten the jihadist movement has grown in the Netherlands over the last ten years. It is a movement consisting of returners, former terrorists convicted, detained travellers and a number of ideologists. That movement is in contact with similar movements elsewhere. All in all, security authorities, such as our NCTV and our services, are confronted with a very large group of people who pose a terrorist threat. It is the responsibility of the government to curb and counter the threat of terrorism and also to respond to changes and new threats. It also means that public authorities have a responsibility not to slacken their attention and remain critical to see whether we will continue to provide sufficient legal and policy options for effective counter-terrorism. The Netherlands has a strong comprehensive policy against terrorism. In recent years, intensive investment has been made to deal with the threat of extremism and terrorism. Early detection of extremism and timely recognition of the threat posed by it are central to this approach, as well as to tackling returners and criminal prosecutions. We have a wide range of legal instruments, and where this makes sense in improving the detection and prosecution of terrorist offences, this legal instrument needs to be reviewed and extended on time. In this context, the bill we are discussing today must be reviewed. It contains useful additions to strengthen the approach to terrorism. I would therefore like to thank you and your Chamber for the speedy presentation of this bill. Mr. Chairman. We must be careful in our efforts to ensure effective legislation. The members of this Chamber have also drawn attention to this today. The importance of combating terrorism is not a licence for totally unlimited measures. That would be light and ultimately counterproductive. So the new measures must be well-founded in terms of usefulness, necessity and effectiveness. And that's what we've really been looking at. It is important that there is no question of new powers. It extends the scope of a number of existing powers in those situations where terrorist offences are involved. This extension does not go beyond what is necessary, and that is why, by letter of amendment, we restricted the application of the proposed extension of provisional detention to returners, more specifically, the category of serious terrorist offences suspected of returning. That is also in line with the current coalition agreement. In reply to this question, I would like to refer in detail to the usefulness and necessity of the various proposals. I do that answer on a subject-by-matter basis. I would like to start by addressing Mrs Wezel's question on the risks identified by the Council of State in relation to fundamental rights. If I see correctly, the criticism by the Council of State of the draft legislative proposal focused primarily on the area penalty section. That part has been taken out of the bill and it will come back in a different form later and with better justification. The justification for the need for the other measures proposed in the legislative proposal has been given a great deal of attention because, as Mrs Wezel rightly points out, these are powers which, however you turn or turn, may entail a certain restriction on fundamental rights. This justification has been given as far as possible with reference to cases in practice that have occurred in the Netherlands or in other countries in recent years. Cases that show that the additions to the instruments to combat terrorism provided by this bill are useful and necessary. However, given the importance of effective counter-terrorism, space is limited in order to wait for sufficient cases to arise in which, due to identified shortcomings in legal powers, we cannot act against terrorism. This would make the necessity undisputed. The government would be greatly lacking in its concern for its citizens if it were for shortcomings that we had already identified in consultation with the Public Prosecutor's Office. In the light of fundamental rights, this might even mean that the public authorities would be negligent in the context of Article 2 of the ECHR. Mr. Chairman. I will then come to the subject of the reporting obligation. Mrs Wezel asked if we would be prepared to conduct a public campaign so that people would know about it. I think that's a good idea. That can indeed help to encourage more people to press charges and not look away. I will therefore take initiatives to launch such a campaign. Mrs Wezel also asked whether Article 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure should not specify that these are crimes in Article 83 of the Code of Criminal Law. That won't be necessary. Article 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure uses the term "terrorist crimes" and Article 83 of the Code of Criminal Law, which identifies the terrorist offences, shows that they are the crimes mentioned there. Mr Dercksen has asked what punishment someone will get if he does not report it and whether it is a priority. Failure to file a report shall be punishable under Article 136 of the Code of Criminal Law. On this basis, a year's imprisonment can be imposed if the offence has actually been followed. The police are, of course, going to take signals on that point seriously. In other words, if it turns out that someone should have reported it and didn't, then the police will follow it up, as the police usually do when it comes to tracking it down and handing it over for prosecution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u13	We all have the footage of these terrorist attacks in Western Europe. So if you're aware of that and you don't press charges, you could get a maximum of a year in prison. How proportional does the Minister himself consider that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u14	As is indicated in the jargon in Amsterdam, I think that is quite a duffel. If you know from someone on your street that they are involved in a terrorist offence and you are silent about it, then that means that the gentleman or the lady who knows it has no further involvement in that terrorist crime, otherwise, of course, it will be involved in a completely different way. If you can get a year's imprisonment for failing to comply with your obligation to report, I think that is quite a punishment, also in the light of the proportions of how we deal with punishment. I'll get to it later, by the way. I would like to say a few words about the gravity of the penalties that apply in the Netherlands to terrorist offences.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u15	Let's take the example of the Bataclan. A number of people with Kalashnikovs then walked into a concert hall and shot their weapons. Suppose you have knowledge of that and then the minister says: you knew that, you didn't report it and you get a bow of up to a year. I know the term "douw" myself, by the way, because I've been in the army. And then the Minister says he thinks that's proportional. Then we obviously have a completely different perception of what is proportional. If you have knowledge of killings involving dozens of people and you don't report them, you'll get up to a year. How the hell am I supposed to see that proportional?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u16	That's tricky. Indeed, you and I have a very different picture of how penalties relate to each other within the criminal justice system and what is proportionate in it. All I can say is, that you can get a year for not reporting a possible terrorist offence, I find within the entire system we have, a proportionate punishment. Again, of course, you should be careful to mention an example. As soon as they somehow get involved in the terrorist crime, that will, of course, be the case with a lot of people. So this is about someone who in itself is an innocent bystander, who sees that happen. We didn't say anything about that until now, but from now on, if you don't report it, you could get a year's imprisonment. I think that's a big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u17	Finally, Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u18	Yeah, finally. I want to sit down afterwards, because we can't figure it out. But if you call someone who has knowledge of a terrorist crime, who can save dozens of lives by simply calling the police, also an "innocent bystander," then the gap between what the minister thinks and what the PVV Group thinks is very big.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u19	If I see it correctly, it was an observation and not a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u20	Then there's the question of the family's right to change. How are we supposed to see that? Does that interfere with the obligation to report and how proportional is that? It is true that close relatives are excluded from the reporting obligation. The right to change is a fundamental principle of law within our criminal law. The importance of protecting it, and that is the prevention of conscience and false statements, must prevail in this case. That's just a deeper criminal interest. By retaining the right to change, the obligation to make a declaration will certainly not be meaningless. Then there was Mr Dercksen's question as to whether the obligation to make a declaration was being investigated. That seems obvious to me. The police and the D.A. are taking reports of possible terrorist offences extremely seriously. We have been asked how such a report can be made. That can be done in any way possible, on the Internet, but it can be done in person. What are the chances of a report being filed? I find that a very difficult question. I would like to say immediately to Mr Dercksen that I did not have an empirical study of this in advance, and Churchill, of course, said: there are truths, half truths, lies and statistics at the bottom. So the question is whether we should have done that research. But if you ask me as a minister, I think there is a real chance, despite the fact that there may be a great social pressure within a group of young people. Once again, the failure to comply with the obligation to report is a prison sentence which, at least, I have classified as a 'big blow' with the concept recognized by Mr Dercksen. It means that at least the lack of conscience in which a person can end up is pushed very clearly in a particular direction, not only because you are likely to have to sit down for a year because you have not done so, but also because a social condemnation is clearly pronounced. It also means that as a society we say: we think it is very bad if you do not fulfil that duty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u21	We also think it's very bad if you don't press charges. I gave the example of the attacker in Brussels. He spent 126 days in Molenbeek. You do not want to investigate it, because it might be statistics that could not be true, but you could do a little research into Islamic group culture. One of my neighbors is studying psychology. The psychology books contain a pyramid of values. With us there is individual development, getting the best out of yourself, and with Islamic culture is grouping. So you don't have to look at the statistics so much, you have to look into Islam and then come to the conclusion that one doesn't rat each other out. People don't do that. That was not done in Molenbeek. The killer was in Molenbeek, 126 days. That's not by accident, that's because that whole group, that whole community held him over his head. Why don't you want to take note of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u22	I would certainly like to take note of that. I understand a number of things you say, but if you say that, then you immediately conclude that two years would not help just as well. And three years wouldn't help either, because you say they're holding each other over their heads. We both believe that our society has values that we must subscribe to. Otherwise, you won't be able to participate in the society we have. According to our values, one year in prison for not reporting the knowledge you have of a terrorist crime is a severe punishment. That is what we regard as a severe punishment in our system. And if there are groups that think that they shouldn't do so by some group sumerta, you know that it also occurs in organized crime, they'll still end up in prison if that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u23	Where things go wrong is that you assume that the people who have come here support our values. They don't. They do not support our values. I had an argument with someone the other day. Actually, it's Darwin's theory of evolution. That may not appeal to you as a member of the CDA, but if we do not adapt our society to the dangers we have, and we do not do so, we will no longer exist in twenty or thirty years' time. Because those people are the ones who do not support our values. A new system of values is entering our country. And if we do not defend ourselves against that and if the Minister does not want to look into what that value system is, we will be lost in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u24	Darwin's, you're wrong about that. I'm a follower of Darwin. I must tell you, however, that the evolution you are describing has not taken place in those 20 to 30 years. But apart from that, I don't think we talk differently. Maybe we'll talk a little bit along. I agree with you that people must accept our values. I'm not gonna deny that there are people who don't. These are the reasons for terrorism, among other things. This is not unique for Western Europe. Just think of the terrorist attacks that took place in Russia in the last decade from a Chechen angle, to put it simply. That is always based on a collision of values. The only thing I just reported is this. If you say that this is a group that imposes a duty of group silence on each other, it does not matter in that respect whether you impose a year, two years or ten years as maximum prison sentence on it. Mr President, if you will allow me, I will continue. There is another question from Mrs Wezel about Article 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Why is it necessary to make a declaration in relation to Article 136 of the Code of Criminal Law? Well, Article 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is the instructional standard and Article 136 of the Code of Criminal Law is the sanctioning. So you need both. Sanction is at issue if the crime has been followed and could have been prevented by declaration. That's what we think is really criminal. Then I have some questions about remand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u25	First, a question from Mrs Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u26	About the reporting obligation. I asked another question about the bank employee. Should he file a report if he sees a payment to persons in Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u27	I have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u28	I'd love to, and then about the public campaign. Can't that be enough? Then why is this legislation still needed separately?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u29	I said that the public campaign was intended to highlight the obligation to report. I do not see the public campaign as an alternative to reporting. I don't believe in that, I say honestly. I think we should include in the law that anyone who knows about this and doesn't file that report is acting as a criminal offence. But I thought it was a good idea to make people aware that this is an obligation arising out of the law. You and I know, of course, that everyone is supposed to know the law, but your point that not every Dutchman reads the Official Journal is also dear to me, so we must do something about it in the context of the public campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u30	Does something happen to the protection of people? I also understand that people are now reluctant to make a report or make a report if they fear for their own safety or those of their neighbors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u31	If you don't point me in the wrong direction, that's a little bit separate from this bill. It goes without saying that when someone reports to the police, whether or not it is in the context of a report of terrorist offences, he or she feels threatened by certain persons, that report is taken very seriously. If that report is related to terrorist activities, then so much so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u32	That's not my experience in practice. I often hear that people report a certain risk that they are running, but that they will be told: call 911. That sometimes makes people feel very unsafe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u33	Last year I made a lot of work visits to the police, recently at the Police Centre in Apeldoorn where we are working on the new modern declaration. I see that the police are committed in every possible way to opening up to people, just people who are in a threatening situation, and making it possible for those people to tell their story, or... They're gonna lose their report. It then looks at adequate reception or that threat. My experiences, I must tell you, are therefore much more positive. I owed Mrs Wezel another answer. It was about why a bank doesn't have to report a foreign deposit. Banks are subject to other provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, which provides for more extensive customer due diligence and reporting of unusual transactions. That notification shall be made to the FIU. A so-called indicator of unusual transactions is that a transaction may be related to terrorist financing. This could be the case if the transaction takes place in a battle zone or if it is in line with other patterns of terrorist financing. So even if the information is insufficient for declaration, there is still an obligation to investigate and to notify banks. So I just want to say that the bank already has a much lower bar. A banker's got to get to work a lot earlier than the banker's.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u34	Under Article 136 of the Criminal Code, everyone is required to report, as is the case with the banks. If, as a result of an investigation, a bank finds that there is probably more going on, it seems to me that, like any other citizen, there is a duty to report on the basis of this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u35	Yes, but the bank must, as I have just explained, report indications to the FIU much earlier, even when there are even fewer indications that could lead to a reporting obligation. The bank has a much stricter obligation, if you know what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u36	The ordinary citizen is subject to a reporting obligation and a reporting obligation. Why is there only a reporting obligation for banks and no reporting obligation? I don't quite understand. Is there a distinction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u37	The distinction concerns, on the one hand, the obligation to declare Article 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This is sanctioned by Articles 135 and 136 of the Code of Criminal Law. On the other hand, I refer to the obligations on banks under the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. So the bank must get to work sooner, but I repeat myself a little now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u38	Last question. I am asking this because it is important that legislation should apply to everyone, including the financial sector and also to the Dutch government, and not for people who hang around people. This legislation seems to me to be also intended for the financial sector or for other stakeholders. It seems to me that legislation applies to everyone and not just to groups of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u39	I agree, but the financial sector is already subject to strict rules under the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. In any case, they are stricter than the obligation to report. Your point is correct, but I refer you once again to the Wwft. It provides for this situation, for the banks too, in a much stricter way. There can be no misunderstanding that the obligation to declare is equally applicable to a legal person, i.e. to a bank. Mrs Strik asked why you would lift the serious objections, because in other crimes there may also be problems of decryption and such. That's right, but here the risks of release are greater. It's about getting rid of evidence or warning others. Another important risk I would like to mention explicitly is that the released suspect, knowing that the police and the justice department are on his heels, is going to speed up an attack planning. That is the peculiarity of terrorist crimes, which are not necessarily the rationalities behind committing the crime and getting away with it, but the primary rationality of committing a crime. That is why it is precisely these terrorist crimes that are subject to a different situation and that serious objections should be removed. Mrs Wezel asked why this is needed now. An important reason for the legislation is that there have been developments in terrorism. The 2014 evaluation to which Mrs Wezel refers is from 2014, but we are now a few years further. As a result of the Segers/Samsom motion on extending the possibilities for pre-trial detention, I have looked at the current practice. Turned out what? Since 2007, it is possible for a suspect of terrorist offences to order two or three days' detention after insurance for 14 days' imprisonment, which is the first part of the pretrial detention without the need for a more substantial suspicion of serious objections. This possibility is used regularly in practice. The analysis on the basis of the motion showed that a bottleneck may arise if after seventeen to twenty days of deprivation of liberty a more solid suspicion is needed to allow the detention to continue. Therefore, in case the judge sees a reason to hold the defendant longer, the bill proposed that a maximum of three times 10 days, a total of 30 days, should take place on the basis of a suspicion rather than on the basis of serious objections. Mrs. Strik asked about the 14 and 30 days. I do not know if I have already explained this clearly, but it is therefore two times three days in insurance, 14 days in detention and 30 days in detention. So it's not 14 plus 16, but 14 plus 30. Those 30 days, as said, are cut in three. Three times after ten days, we need to re-evaluate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u40	I understood that from the explanatory statement. I did not think that the wording of that last sentence of paragraph 4 could be interpreted in two ways. It says that the detention period, without serious objections, should not exceed 30 days. The first fourteen days are, as you pointed out, even without serious objections. Then you'd say, "Okay, then you've already wasted 14 days, so you've got 16 days left. That was my question, but perhaps you can come back to it in the second term. You have just indicated that research has shown that there is a need to broaden it in this way. Mrs Wezel and I have both pointed out that research shows that there has always been no use for it. The Council of State has also done so. You didn't have to do it afterwards. I hear you say that it is from the study that it can be expanded in this way. That it might be necessary. But is that also on the basis of files and individual cases, where the judge experienced a problem that there were no serious objections and that this led in practice to endangerment or whatever? What does "can" mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u41	"Can" says it right away. I just described to you the situation that we're stuck with a suspect in a terrorist crime. It is precisely because of the ever more complex encryption that this problem is becoming more and more acute. Let me make it quite clear that this extension gives the court the opportunity to re-assess whether there is still an investigative interest in continuing to do so every 10 days. This will eventually be different in practical situations. No matter how you turn it or turn it, that is, of course, casuistic. However, it is a fact that the services note that the investigation requires more and more complex efforts, because terrorists are also making progress in their technologies, as are our services, fortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u42	That still sounds a bit theoretical to me. I wonder whether, on the basis of case studies and case analysis, that need has indeed been there and that it has caused problems that the law did not allow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u43	I have just mentioned that not so much empirical research has been carried out, in the vein of: in so many cases this appears. I have to be very careful about it, but fortunately the number of cases in the Netherlands is, of course, still to be seen. As I have just said, in practice, it appears that after 17 to 20 days there is a bottleneck, because it is increasingly discovered that this period is not sufficient to fully decrypt what is possibly being done. I wanted to tell Mrs. Strik that it says "prison" through you, Mr. President. If I have caused confusion about this, I want to make it clear now. That is, of course, 30 days and that is different from the detention: that is the 14 days. We must make no mistake about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u44	The Minister explained that there was a judge's test at the detention and detention. Every ten days there is an examination of whether there is still an interest in research. But in its opinion, the Council of Justice has indicated: what exactly am I testing? You can test every ten days, but then you test if there is a reasonable suspicion. That may be a notification based on information from STUD or AIVD, but of course there is no more than that. The judges state: there is little to test, so what exactly are we supposed to check on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u45	I don't see that point that the judge wouldn't see that. The judge has to look at two things. First of all, is there any suspicion? That is always the case in principle. Secondly, is there a ground, such as flight risk, danger of removing evidence or danger of committing a new crime? That's some kind of double bond. Those two test questions must be put to the judge and answer reasoned questions. The judge also takes into account whether the Public Prosecutor's Office is making sufficient progress in the investigation and not what over-the-counter is doing nothing, backing down or whatever. The judge has to do that every 10 days. The longer the deprivation of liberty takes, the heavier that aspect will weigh, and the stricter and more stringent the two criteria I have just mentioned will be applied. Actually, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u46	So especially the test on progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u47	It's about the question of suspicion. Are there grounds for a flight risk, the removal of evidence, etc.? Those are the grounds for remand. That's what the judge needs to look at. As you progress in that period of three times ten days, the judge is going to tighten that test. In the meantime, the judge takes a separate look at whether the prosecution is making sufficient progress in the whole. Let me give you an example. If we have done it twice and the third time is discussed, the judge may say: listen, taking everything into account, I do not think this suspicion is enough. If he takes into account that in the last 20 days the public prosecutor has hardly made any efforts, let me just say what: they have not started to talk to their French colleagues, he can say: I think that the ground is really getting lost in a third period of ten days.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u48	Finally, Mrs Wezel, on this point, unless it is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u49	My very last question. The comments made by the judges in 2004 and what they were actually repeating are as follows. There's a reasonable hunch. The Minister now says: then it becomes a heavier test. But the judges state: it is not in the law alone that suddenly there is an assessment of half-hearted or serious objections. That's what the judges run into. They say, "We must check every time whether there is a reasonable presumption." That's what's going on all the time. It's not like there has to be more evidence all of a sudden. The Judges state that there is a reasonable presumption at any time, as has already been established. Unless there is exculpatory evidence; then suddenly there may be no reasonable suspicion, or no more research interest. But the judges are running into it. They say: the law does not allow me to make a kind of linear curve of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u50	The beauty of it is that the law talks about "suspect." I just indicated that that concept will weigh more heavily as we progress in that "three times ten days" series. That is up to the judge, and I must tell you that the Dutch judge in the past, even in the recent past, has proved very capable of filling in such open concepts as'reasonable suspicion','suspect','reasonability and fairness'. After 30 days, the judge will at least have to say 'now there must be serious objections', but that seems logical to me. So I think we should give the judge his judicial freedoms in that. I would like to point out to you that this test on suspicion must be more and more stringent. This also follows from the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, and I believe that it is also apparent from the Acts of the House of Representatives, because that is where I put it. We also had a piece of that discussion in the Lower House. So it is not that this would be completely new for the Dutch judge. Apart from the excellent quality and independence of the Dutch judges.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u51	I have a question about the planning. How much time does the Minister think he needs for his response?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u52	I've got four more folders of subjects here, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to get through it a little faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u53	I don't want to rush you, but I want some indication, because we also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u54	Mr. Chairman. The questions about DNA. Why is DNA stored in acquittal? Also in case of acquittal, DNA data will be destroyed as soon as the verdict is irrevocable. That's in article 16 of the DNA decision. That is only different when there is what is called a "intentional life crime." It applies to all intentional life crimes, so there is no particular element in that. The retention period of 80 years: DNA is, as said, destroyed after acquittal. If the defendant is convicted, the length of the retention period depends on the seriousness of the offence and the sentence imposed, which varies from 12 to 80 years. 80 years is also the case in serious sex crimes. That was the wish of the House of Representatives at the time. Then the approach of returners. Mr Dercksen has asked why we are picking up terrorists. Let it be clear that the Dutch government does not offer assistance to Dutch extravagants to leave the battle zone. Mrs Strik asked about the relationship with the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. Now we can hold them longer, wasn't that other law necessary and which law takes precedence? Criminal prosecution is basically leading. Each case is assessed whether the criminal law approach or the administrative approach, i.e. the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, is the most appropriate. If there is no insight into prosecution, conviction and enforcement of a sentence, the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship may be preferable in the interests of national security. A decision to withdraw the Dutch citizenship pursuant to Article 14, fourth paragraph of the Rijkswet Nederlanderschap, shall take into account, inter alia, the potential importance of the investigation, prosecution and trial of the person concerned and the possibility of enforcement of the custodial sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u55	I hear the Minister say: then the criminal procedure is leading, whether the consideration or prosecution can be made, or whether that is likely to be. Let me get this straight. Can I conclude that this is also preferable? That, if there is any way to prosecute, that's what's going to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u56	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u57	And does that also mean that if we adopt this bill, perhaps there will be more use of it, precisely because there are more opportunities to hold people here while the evidence is still being worked on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u58	Yeah, and I think that's gonna be a good way to raise the uplifting rate. Let me make one thing clear: Mrs Strik also asked whether there is still a distinction between people with a single and people with a double nationality. Well, in criminal law, it isn't. If someone commits terrorist offences, then we are acting against them criminally, not relevant to their nationality. That is also what I, as Minister of Justice, believe to be in favour of the primacy of criminal law, because all terrorists within our jurisdiction will be dealt with in the same way primarily in criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u59	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u60	Then I have one more question. Maybe the Minister will come to that. I saw that the Minister in the House of Representatives indicated that the prosecution actually does not currently have any criminal obstacles to returners, because they say: the complexity is such that we always get that space, that there is always a serious objection. What's the deal with that? Because if that is the case, it would mean that this bill is not necessary at all in order to actually prosecute those returnees here. Can the Minister at least comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u61	That is based on the current legal practice, but what was it like again? "The results achieved in the past do not guarantee the future." I think it is an important addition to our criminal law to make this possible on the basis of that suspicion with that slight scaling-up, I shall say, as more of those three times ten days have passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u62	Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u63	Yes, please, because there will also be a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u64	Now, of course, we come back to the discussion of utility and necessity. I do have one more question. A motion was adopted in the House of Representatives which also states that this legal possibility for domestic terrorist offences, i.e. crimes committed here, should be applied in only very exceptional cases. So the House of Representatives actually says: for returners it is okay, but as little as possible for domestic terrorists. In what way does the Minister intend to shape this? Maybe he can explain something about that too. Then what are the criteria? When is a case exceptional enough to apply it anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u65	I find that very difficult, because it is primarily a matter for the Public Prosecutor and for the judiciary. This motion has been included in parliamentary history, so we know what Parliament is like here, if I may put it that way. Then it would, I think, be a mer à boire to describe here what these exceptional circumstances should be. Apart from that, however, I think that this is mainly up to the prosecuting and judicial authorities. In any case, this bill does not provide for this to be completed. Then we have to be careful to do that here. Mr. Chairman. I believe that I have answered the questions relating to the return, although there were still some questions about the return of Dutch children. The Dutch Government has made it very clear that we are not actively bringing back Dutch people who are in the battle zone, the unsafe area. Children will be assisted by the Netherlands as soon as they appear at a Dutch diplomatic representation. With regard to children taken by their parents to ISIS area or born there, the Netherlands stresses that these children should initially be seen as victims. It is appalling that these young children are often exposed to serious conditions. The balance of interests looks at different interests such as the security situation in the region, the interests of children and international diplomatic relations. The child law treaties referred to are not directly applicable here, because the problem is that these children are not within the jurisdiction of the Netherlands or of a nation with which the Netherlands maintains diplomatic relations. Mr Dercksen wondered, following last night's television broadcast, whether we were sponsoring terrorism. In a debate requested in the House of Representatives, the Minister for Foreign Affairs will shortly discuss the facts and circumstances surrounding the support of fighting groups in the Syrian conflict. I refer to that debate. This extends beyond the scope of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u66	I wasn't so much wondering if it was. I believe that what has happened is perfectly clear. I am happy that this is discussed in the House of Representatives; the primacy is there. But I also talked about Iran. Iran sponsors terrorism worldwide. The EU, and therefore this cabinet, has released additional money to circumvent the sanctions imposed by the United States, while the people are longing for freedom. With this, too, we sponsor the terror, with Dutch taxpayers' money. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u67	That, too, is a subject that is rather beyond the scope of this legislative proposal. I have come to your Chamber, President, to explain and answer questions about a bill that is precisely about combating terrorism and tackling terrorist offences. I would like to continue with that explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u68	We're talking about terror. All the documents we've received on this bill say that the cabinet wants to do everything in its power to combat terror. As far as I am concerned, 'Everything' is also that we ensure that we do not transfer money to terrorist regimes. I understand that the Minister of Justice and Security is not primarily about this, but a colleague. But perhaps I can hear from him that in the cabinet he expresses my group's concerns and that we stop sponsoring the mullahs. 'Cause those mullahs are sponsoring terror all over the world. Fortunately, America is beginning to realize that. Why doesn't that quarter fall into the EU? Stop it!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u69	I certainly regularly report to the cabinet on the concerns I hear in the Second and First Chambers of the various political groups. So that shouldn't be a problem. But I would really like to concentrate on explaining this bill and answering the questions of the honourable Members. I only have a little left to answer. Mr Dercksen first of all had some questions about the El-Tawheed mosque in Amsterdam. Let me start by saying that there are no appointments with the El-Tawheed or with any other mosque about who the police may or may not enter. The police are themselves responsible for who they are responsible for certain activities. Mr Dercksen also asked about the hate images declared to be an undesirable stranger. Well, that has happened thirteen times since February 2015. I will apply the power to withdraw from the Netherlands if someone has been irrevocably convicted of a terrorist offence or if someone outside the Netherlands has joined a terrorist organisation as they wish, of course together with Secretary of State Harbers. The condition is, of course, that someone, in addition to Dutch nationality, also has a second nationality. I would also point out that if there are crimes committed by mosque visitors, such as the recruitment of armed forces or the financing of terrorism, the police and the public prosecutors are acting against them. There is no denying that the El-Tahweed mosque, consciously or unconsciously, offers space for jihadists to engage in activities. That is worrying, because in this way mosque-goers can be influenced from a hateful and unbearable message and because the mixing of salafists and jihadists can contribute to the growth of the jihadist movement. I am already in extensive conversation with the mayors of the large municipalities and I will continue to work to prevent such excesses by confronting and maintaining them. I should also like to point out to you that, where possible, I am banning this extremist species, and it is fair to say quietly: hate-sorting imams, as has recently been extended to an area in The Hague with regard to such an imam. I have some final points that go under the hopeful heading of 'other'. One point was the need for evaluation of all agreed legislation. Article VIA (Roman 6A) of the bill includes an evaluation for five years after entry into force. I have undertaken during the proceedings in the Lower House to map separately the application of the possibility of extending a provisional detention each year. Mr Dercksen asked why lower penalties are imposed in the Netherlands. Most terrorist crimes in the Netherlands, at law level, have severe penalties. The maximum penalty is in principle one third higher than for other serious crimes in the Code of Criminal Law. The maximum legal penalties for terrorist offences in the Netherlands are broadly similar to those in other Western European countries. The penalty requirement of the Public Prosecutor's Office concerns discretionary jurisdiction. I don't have to explain. The judge is, of course, completely independent in the imposition of penalties. That's a separation of powers that we all want to leave completely intact here in this house, I think. It is not possible to make well-founded statements about the criminal climate in the Netherlands in relation to terrorist offences on the basis of one or several individual cases. That all depends on the individual circumstances. I would like to say that the Netherlands is above the maximum penalty as mentioned in the EU Counter-Terrorism Directive 2017/541. Then there are a few things. Mr Dercksen asked about the people leaking from a terrorist case. Article 272 of the Criminal Code provides that the leak of official secrets is a criminal offence. So, if possible and appropriate, the prosecution will prosecute it. There was also a question from Mrs Wezel about the disenfranchisement of the right to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u70	Mr. Dercksen, we're very close to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u71	I've already written down a lot for the second term. But this hits those leaky cops from the terror investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u72	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u73	The Minister refers to the Code of Criminal Law. But it's been a while since those tap reports appeared on the Internet. I would therefore like to know if measures have been taken against the agents who leaked.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u74	I must remain guilty of that at the moment. I also need to dig into my memory for the case in question. I hope Mr Dercksen will forgive me for not coming back to that until the second term. There was another question about the measure disenfranchisement from the right to vote. In an opinion of 12 June 2015 on the investigation of criminal provisions in the electoral process, the Election Council highlighted the inconsistency that exists in dealing with the possibility of withdrawal from voting rights. Disappointment is possible under Article 54 (2) of the Constitution if persons have been sentenced to a custodial sentence of at least one year for committing a crime designated by law by a final judgment. The legislator has ruled that such an outrage can only occur in the case of offences which constitute a serious violation of the foundations of the Dutch state system. A terrorist objective is referred to under Article 83a of the Code of Criminal Law if the fact "is committed with the aim of causing serious fear to the population or part of the population of a country, or to forcing a government or international organisation to do something, not to do it or to tolerate it, or to seriously disrupt or destroy the fundamental political, constitutional, economic or social structures of a country or an international organisation." The finding that there is a terrorist target, which the Election Council considers to be followed by a crime for which the person concerned is convicted, falls under the criterion of withdrawal from the right to vote: serious damage to the foundations of the Dutch state system. To date, expulsion from the right to vote is only possible in the event of a conviction for a number of terrorist offences. This is due to the fact that they fall under other categories of serious crime, such as crimes against the security of the State. The Election Council therefore advocated the possibility of withdrawal from the right to vote in the event of an irrevocable conviction for any terrorist offence. That was also advocated by Mr Bishop and Mr Taverne. Mr. Chairman. I thought I'd run out of questions. But if I skipped something, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u75	Mrs Wezel suspects that this is the case. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had two more questions to which I would like an answer from the Minister. They are about Dutch support for terrorist organisations. The first question was whether this does not contribute to confidence in the Dutch government, a government which, among other things, proclaims the present bill...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u77	May I interrupt you for a moment? If you've already asked those questions, the Minister knows them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u78	Yeah, I know them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u79	Those two, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u80	I'll answer it right away. That means I'm not going to answer that. This will be discussed with Minister Blok in the debate in the Lower House. I would like to say here that, in general terms, the fact that certain so-called non-lethal assistance has been given in the recent or not recent past by the Netherlands does not prevent the fact that certain crimes committed by people or involving them may be terrorist in nature and as such deserve to be investigated and prosecuted. That's what I stand for as Minister of Justice. The other point, the how and why of what you call 'aid to terrorist organisations'...................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u81	I conclude from this that the prosecution of these people is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u82	As you know, the opportunity lies with the state's attorney's office. I say in general that the fact that a person is suspected of certain terrorist offences or of involvement in a terrorist organisation is in itself and that it is up to the public prosecutor to assess whether that is the case and whether it deserves to be prosecuted. Other circumstances can't change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u83	Despite the fact that the Dutch State facilitated the organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u84	Excuse me, Mrs. Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u85	I will ask the question again in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u86	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u87	This is the answer I will give in the second term. You said "despite that." Well, I'm talking about the D.A.'s investigation and prosecution for certain crimes or crimes. terrorist offences have been said twice that the principle of opportunity is separate from possible other circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u89	Mr. Chairman. This was my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u90	Thank you. Then we come to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u91	Mr. Chairman. Thank you, also to the Minister for first-term responses. A number of things have remained and still need some clarification. Terrorist Dick Schoof said, I believe this morning in De Telegraaf, that he is in favour of checking all passenger lists in cross-border public transport. That's almost a PVV term for "close borders." He probably opts for public transport because of the events in Amsterdam. If the man had come in a car, he probably would have suggested it for the boundaries. I would like a response from the Minister. Security expert Michiel de Weger says that more and more European countries are guarding the borders. If we fail to do so, we will be "at some point the well that everyone comes to." None of that is higher math. I would like the Minister to respond to that, of course, in the promise that he will also monitor our borders. The minister said that, I believe, some thirteen hate preachers have been evicted. That has then been hidden from the eyes of society. I didn't see any of that. I need to know who they are, where they preached, or the place where they preached is closed and what measures have been taken there. I asked why we're bringing back jihadgoers. I didn't mean by that either. I didn't say that from a battle zone, but from Turkey. Two convicted jihadis have been picked up from Turkey. We've arranged a passport for them, sent marshalssees to them and brought them to the Netherlands heavily guarded. Why do we do that? Let them also serve their sentence on appeal in Turkey. Why do we have to deliver a passport? Why doesn't Morocco do that? We have also spoken briefly about the influx of immigrants. The Minister said that there have been some terrorists in there, but that the vast majority of them are refugees. I'm gonna have to let him down. Italy has investigated that. Of the people arriving on these boats in Italy, only 7% meet the conditions for being called refugees. The rest is lucky finder. I hope the Minister realizes that. I didn't make it up myself. I didn't make it up. Edwin Bakker, Professor of Terrorism in Leiden, investigated this and came to this conclusion. I think we're talking about another subject, which is that he meant the returners. I would like to know from the Minister if he knows this professor's research. Maybe he wants to share it with us. That professor Bakker said that it is unwise to hand out short prison sentences, because then the chances of that person getting out of the neighborhood from which he came are a lot smaller than if he was imprisoned longer. I am very curious about the publicity campaign for the obligation to report. I am very curious to know where the Minister is going to do that and in what language. I don't think there's much point doing that for Studio Sport. Maybe he should do that on Al-Jazeera or something. I wonder if there are any thoughts on that. Finally. I have really put forward a long list of circumstances that is all wrong at the El-Tawheed mosque in Amsterdam. Every time something comes out, I hear colleagues react shockedly in the media. They demand action from the government and it doesn't come from it. You know that the PVV prefers that all mosques close. We have 150 of Erdogan's propaganda palaces in this country to give an example. Let me give colleagues the opportunity to take action and support the motion calling for the closure of this mosque. The President shall: Mr Dercksen, Mr Kok, Mr Van Hattem, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van der Sluijs and Mr Peter van Dijk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas recruiters, Syrians, arsonists, terrorists and murderers regularly visited and visited the El-Tawheed mosque;]] [[Whereas both the administration and the funding of the mosque are linked to terrorist organisations;]] [[Whereas hatred against Jews, Christians, women and homosexuals is being preached;]] [[calls on the Government to take all necessary steps to close the El-Tawheed mosque in Amsterdam by the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34746-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u92	Yes, this is happening in a number of countries in Europe. I mentioned Austria, but France also does it. It's possible. I would also like to call on my fellow Members to act at last. So far. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u93	Thank you. I call Mrs Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive explanation of the questions. I have two additional questions for the Minister. The first is whether the Minister would like to undertake to evaluate the effects of the accumulation of terrorism laws on the fundamental fundamental rights of the Dutch people and the democratic rule of law. This following the opinion of the Council of State. The second thing I would like to put to the Minister is the question of the judge's test. The Minister just spoke about a "light scaling" when he extended the provisional detention, i.e. the detention and detention. Of course the judges are well trained and have a decent quality, but the test for reasonable suspicion has been laid down. It is not really up to the court to add a free provision to that. There is no case law on that specific provision. Is it now up to the judge to make a free provision of how he or she sees that slight scaling? The problem is that judges need handles to carry out their work, which is why they need clarification from ministers. The fact that they are well qualified does not mean that they have handles to do their job well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u95	Thank you. Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u96	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply. A number of things have become clearer as far as we are concerned. The basis for the legislative proposal is not yet clear: its usefulness and necessity. In fact, the Minister admits not to have done a case analysis, but that, as it all becomes more complex, it can become increasingly important that there is such a possibility. That is a bit more looking to the future, while we are inclined to check on a basis for now. Does experience show that it's necessary? With regard to returners, he indicated what he also said in the Lower House, namely that the Public Prosecutor does not necessarily need it now, but that this could change in the future. My group still thinks that this is a poor basis, while at the same time we also want to avoid that, should it prove necessary before the courts, the courts will be left empty-handed. So we still need to think about that. I think it is an important undertaking, because there is clearly a kind of linear curve, as Mrs Wezel calls it, that the longer the detention takes, the more rigorous the assessment of the suspicion is that the investigation is heavy enough and whether the investigation is progressing. Does the D.A. do a bit of his job, even though there's no serious objection? How this is going to work out in practice remains to be seen. But I think that is an important commitment from the Minister. It may not be in the law, but I am keeping the minister to it, and I hope the judges will do the same. Then the Minister briefly addressed my question about the relationship between this law and the law on the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship in the interests of national security. I think it is important for the Minister to make it clear that the criminal procedure is leading. So if we can prosecute, we will. In doing so, the Minister indicated a condition, namely that they should be within our jurisdiction. These people are, of course, abroad. Now the Netherlands does have the jurisdiction to prosecute someone and ask for extradition so that someone here can be prosecuted. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he looks at this in the same way. Does he think that, if there is a possibility, the Netherlands will have to try to get the people here to actually prosecute them and bring them to justice? Because then they come under the jurisdiction of the Netherlands. Finally, Mr President, on the Dutch children. I'm glad the Minister and the government also see these children as victims. Those Dutch children are victims of the choices made by their parents. They are Dutch who are actually trapped in a certain situation, also just physically, in detention. The question is whether we should just let them sit there and find it sad for them or whether it requires the positive commitment to active action. I have already mentioned the example of other countries. We also do this with Dutch prisoners who are still in a somewhat regulated setting of a prison abroad. Shouldn't we also use our consular assistance to do this? Also from the idea that the short-term policy is to leave them in those harmful conditions, while we will one day have to deal with these children again. Then the Minister said that the Convention on the Rights of the Child does not oblige us to do so, because they are not within our jurisdiction. On the contrary, I have referred to the right of everyone to return to their own country, Article 12 (4) of the IVBPR. Suppose a Dutch child wants to go back to the country, but it cannot do so on its own because it is a child, is it not logical that the Netherlands and the embassy offer a reaching hand to actually implement that right? It would be nice if the Minister could go into that further. We will discuss in the group whether we can support this bill or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. Is the Minister able to answer directly? I understand he needs a short suspension. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u98	Will the Minister be able to answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u99	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u100	Thank you. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u101	Mr. Chairman. If it's all right with you, I'll do it by the speaker. That way, I think, we'll get through the best. I shall begin with Mr Dercksen. He asked what is the status of the investigation that shows that in the Netherlands terrorism is well punished. The investigation was made public some time ago, namely in February 2018. It's on the Internet. If you really want the exact location, I'd like to send it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u102	I asked you to reflect on the research done by Mr Edwin Bakker, Professor. He has looked at the penalties for returners in seven countries, and he comes to the conclusion that the Netherlands punishes the lightest. He doesn't think that's right, but we'll have to stick that load on ourselves, or you'll have to stick it on yourself. I want to know if you know that investigation and what you think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u103	You want me to reflect on that. I did understand that something else, and I thought you reflected on that yourself, but well. Look, I already said something about it in the first term. I said that the legislation in the Netherlands on penalties, let me say, is above the European directive and is really just at the level of other Western European countries. Next, we need to look at the prosecution policy of the prosecution and how the judiciary deals with it. I find it very complicated to arrive at sweeping statements on this subject with each other. For let us be clear, some of the Western European countries that have been looked at have also experienced much more serious terrorist violence in recent years. It goes without saying that in the context of a major attack, for example, accessory will be weighed differently than if it remains with what is called what is to be said? Hate-sowing through pamphlets, to name but a few. So I find it very difficult to compare that now, but I would stress that the legal instruments themselves in the Netherlands at that point are really at the level of Western Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u104	The minister said, "I'm going to impose heavier penalties if there's a major attack." I hope he didn't mean that, but I think he kind of said that with these words. I hope that's not right. We can't get any further on this subject. Again, this professor has established that we are very sweet to returners and that other countries are much stricter. So we're just gonna let it go. That is actually the conclusion of the discussion we are having.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u105	I admit that I sometimes speak unclearly, but I would like to throw that accusation far away from me in advance. I am very sorry, then, that I was obviously not clear. I have not said at all that I will not introduce heavier penalties until there are major attacks. I have said that it is quite possible that in other countries where there have been very serious attacks, high penalties have been imposed as a result of the fact that they were very serious crimes at that time. Let me say again: the Dutch legal instruments are at the level of most other countries. How this works out in practice will also depend on what the casuistics are. I will go on with someone who has heard both Mr Dercksen and I very well, namely Mr Schoof. This concerns PNR, the exchange of passenger data. A European directive has been agreed on this point. In this respect, there is a draft law in preparation which will soon be sent to the two chambers. The closure of borders is contrary to the free movement of persons within the EU, and it is also contrary to the importance of the undisturbed functioning of Dutch society. That does not mean, of course, that there is a need for a critical assessment of those from outside Europe who apply for residence on the basis of refugee status.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u106	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u107	Mr. Dercksen, may I ask you for some self-limitation? You have now interrupted every response. That is your right, but I invite you to some self-limitation for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u108	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I think terror is a little more important than dinner break. But I'll do my best. Speaking of border guards... I was just quoting a security expert. It says that more and more countries are still controlling the borders. If we are to do this last, this means that we are the drain of Europe. Those aren't even my words, but they're the words of that security expert. Isn't that a warning to this minister? And what is a warning to this minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u109	The debate within the EU on whether it is appropriate to reintroduce border controls in some situations is ongoing. It is quite clear that the Netherlands takes the view that this is contrary to the free movement of persons. Then I come to talk about the hate preachers. I think I'm misunderstood. I have said that under the visa requirement, third-country nationals who call for hatred or violence will be refused the visa or their visa withdrawn. This has been done in the Dutch context since 2015 in thirteen cases. I cannot give you those cases by name, at least not now. If you were on it, I could certainly get you a list of them. A motion has then been tabled by Mr Dercksen, whom I would like to discuss immediately. No, first of all, I'm going to come up with that leaking of justice staff. I do not deal with individual cases; you know that. I say Generic: in 2017, the police started an investigation into 608 employees. That's 0.9% of the total number of police officers. I don't recommend the motion. If there are criminal offences, then it is primarily on the local triangle, especially to police and prosecutors, to act. I think I indicated that in the first period. The prohibition of a legal person is a measure which the court may take in extreme cases. Mr Dekker and I are currently working to increase the impact of Article 20 of Book 2 of the WFD in this respect. This can be seen if anti-democratic and unbearable behaviour conflicts with public order. I also pointed out to you during the first period that I had already used the area ban, which could also be discussed. I shall now turn to Mrs Wezel's questions. In addition, I would like to touch on that point of reasonable suspicion. Let there be no misunderstanding: judges are familiar with that concept. Judges are also familiar with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, which states that the longer a deprivation of liberty takes, the more difficult the judge must weigh up. The same applies to the judge who has to judge on the basis of suspicion over those three times 30 days. The continuation of detention should be necessary. It is ultimately an individual case, and it is up to the Dutch court to decide. It is already doing this, in my view, in an excellent way. Mrs Wezel asked about the evaluation of all the legislation on terrorism. A motion on this issue was adopted during the debate on the state of the rule of law. This will be carried out by the Cabinet. Finally, I come to Mrs Strik. I think what she's saying is exactly why it goes. We, as legislators, must take responsibility for preventing risks in the event of terrorism. So we shouldn't wait for things to go wrong a few times. In the written documents to the House of Representatives and in the reply to the First Chamber, it is stated that the practice indicates that we are getting close to saying that in the first period I also said that in the period of seventeen to twenty days. All this following the motion by Mr Samsom/Segers at the time. There is a need for us to keep up with developments in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u110	Well, to what extent do you have to take into account possible future developments? As co-legislator, it is always more pleasant to be able to test if data shows that something is needed. But in any case, the Minister has indicated and the House of Representatives has insisted on making use of this possibility only in very exceptional cases, when it comes to matters in the Netherlands. The Chamber has asked for information on this matter to be provided annually. My request would be to share that information with the First Chamber and to extend that information to how often it is used in return situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u111	Well, let's put it this way: I can't commit to what exactly that... We have said that every year we will let you know how the judge's three-time-ten-day jurisdiction is handled. Whether that should also be allowed to go up to the level of the background of someone can and I do not want to answer here either. It may be that I do understand your idea that privacy considerations stand in the way of saying in certain cases what a person's reason or background was to come back to the Netherlands. But I would like to stress that we are reporting annually to the House of Representatives and, as far as I am concerned, also to the House of Representatives, so that both Chambers can assess whether that system of the test, which is gradually getting heavier on the basis of the Court of Justice's case-law, is working properly. Back to the first part of your question, because I would like to put that as a question. Look, it's not like we're thinking, there's got to be a law for something that might happen in the future. No, what we're establishing with each other is there's a terrorist threat. I referred once again to the 48 terrorist threats in the Netherlands, which have appeared in recent years, which clearly show a line in how terrorism has developed. In my introductory speech, I also pointed out that it is a terrorism that has developed in many respects, cynically enough, since 2001. In this process of development, we will need more time to collect, decrypt, decipher certain information. That is why it is said that the period in which there has not yet been a change to serious objections should be a little longer. This need is, once again, already reflected in how we have seen the terrorist threat develop in recent years. The fact that we have been on level 4 for a number of years, which is not a luxury, but just a really bitter necessity, indicates that very easily in one figure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u112	Finally, Mrs Strik. For you, the same call for self-limitation, not because terror is not important.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u113	The Minister actually gives two reasons for monitoring how this possibility will be dealt with properly. On the one hand, whether it is indeed necessary, on the other hand, whether it is handled prudently and exceptionally. The Minister has already indicated that the prosecution does not really need it for returners. That is precisely why it would be very important for us not only to be informed about how often it is used for internal situations, but also how often it will be used for return situations. Then we really have the complete overview of how this is used and whether it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u114	I repeat, you will be given an annual review. It goes too far to say now to what level of data detail that can be broken down. 'Cause I think it's all about seeing how often the weighting happens by the judge and how it happens. Then, of course, it will also be the seriousness of the crime at stake. By the way, let us hope that we will only encounter a few cases in the annual report every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u115	One more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u116	I'll finish it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u117	Of course, it's not just about monitoring how the judge deals with it, but about how the prosecutor deals with it as far as we're concerned. So also how often it's revenged.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u118	I think that's very clear. Mrs. Strik had one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u119	I would like to ask a very specific question. So far it has not been properly monitored. The reason for this was that the serious objections did not need to be examined and that the reasonable suspicion was directly assessed at the time of the detention. So it could not be monitored. Is that going to be done differently in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u120	Well, we have been promised that we will report annually on those cases where one-ten has been applied, or in which at least it has been requested by the prosecution, including the cases where even the first ten days have been refused, so that you will get an idea of the cases in which that is currently taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u121	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u122	Last but not least, and then the dinner break, I would like to comment on a question from Mrs Strik on the deployment of consular assistance. I would like to stress once again that the Dutch Government continues to take the view that we cannot send people into the battle zone, but when people do reach a post, they will immediately receive consular assistance. This is the last thing I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u123	In conclusion, Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u124	Thanks for the answer. I had asked another question to clarify what is leading: the preference for criminal proceedings. In the first term, the Minister indicated that this is true of people within our jurisdiction. Well, that's the problem with people who are abroad. Does this preference also apply to people who are abroad in criminal proceedings? Then are we going to try to ask for extradition or to really make sure that we can prosecute them here, instead of...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u125	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u126	That is a question which is far too far-reaching for me as the Minister of Justice, because then I will also go along with the principle of opportunity and I should not do so. We are here today to talk about this bill, which, I repeat, extends the criminal instruments for suspects of terrorist offences. Whether or not the D.A. decides to ask for extradition from someone, I should not go into that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u127	Of course, I am not at all concerned with this case or with a commitment on the number of cases in which the Minister is going to do so. But I thought the minister was so bright in his first term. I thought he said that criminal prosecution is preferable: if it is possible, it will take place. My question is simply whether this also extends to the situations of people who are abroad, and whether it also extends to extradition in order to be able to prosecute and prosecute. That could be a simple yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u128	Well, that can't be a simple yes. I have to say, I'm coming back to the same point. In general, I can say that the criminal law approach is a priority. Whether this is always the case in the same cases for people who are abroad depends entirely on the opportunity of the public prosecutor, because there may be situations where people say that it is a very complex effort or that there are authorities there that are very difficult to deal with. You and I cannot take this into account in this case, but I repeat that was a simple yes that is the starting point that the priority really lies in the criminal law approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u129	Clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-09-11-eerstekamer-10.u130	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I assume that goes for the motion as well. Yes, that's the case. Then I propose that we vote on the bill and the motion on 25 September. I'm suspending the dinner break meeting and thanking the Minister.
