ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on waterboards which did not investigate the effects of rubber granulate in artificial turf fields. We have seven speakers today and everyone has three minutes' speaking time. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Arissen of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u2	Thank you, Mr President. A clean, safe soil and clean water are literally vital. For some time there have been concerns about the safety of rubber granulate as a substrate of sports fields. Deep digging research by ZEMBLA revealed that hardly any research has been done into the health risks of rubber granulate on artificial turf fields. Toxicologists say: do not sport on artificial grass as long as we are unable to assess the risks. Mr. Chairman. NOC*NSF does not want to reveal how many sports fields in the Netherlands have been built with rubber granulate. According to ZEMBLA's research, it's about 1,800. According to the Secretary of State, how many sports fields are involved? Is it true that there have been hardly any environmental checks in the past, as sports field advisor Jan Willem Boon stated in the broadcast? The letter states that water boards regularly take measurements, but these are regular measurements in the water floor and surface water to map the overall picture of water quality. Have the water boards also taken measurements on the banks and in the waters surrounding the artificial turf fields with rubber granulate? Mr. Chairman. How harmful is the use of rubber granulate for our environment, the subsurface and the water? Director Els van Schie of the RIVM told the camera that there are environmental risks related to heavy metals, PAHs and zinc, and that there have been agreements on the manner of construction. According to Van Schie, whether these agreements are sufficient to limit environmental damage does not appear to have been investigated. According to ZEMBLA, RIVM already carried out extensive research into the leakage of zinc from rubber granulate in 2007. The conclusion was that the emission of zinc from rubber granulate is about twenty times higher locally than the emission of zinc from pesticides from agriculture. Shocking. Will the Secretary of State at RIVM verify that this is correct and send the report in question to the Chamber? Is it true that at the time the Ministry and then Minister Cramer were sensitive to the lobby from the tyre branch and therefore put aside the results of the investigation? The letter also states that rubber granulate sometimes spreads outside the sports fields and that heavy metals have been detected, including in the base of the fields. A follow-up study of RIVM is under way to identify the environmental impacts of this spread of rubber granulate and the concentration of harmful substances. How is this research done? Are all sports fields now being examined with rubber granulate? Or is RIVM limited to a sample? Will the Secretary of State inform municipalities and sports associations about the possible soil pollution under the artificial turf fields with rubber granulate and remind them of their duty of care under the Soil Protection Act, which states that soil should not be polluted?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u3	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u4	Yes, two more sentences, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. It's gonna cost a lot of money to clean up the pollution. Who is going to pay for this: the polluter or the taxpayer? Does the Secretary of State understand how many municipalities are currently dealing with contaminated soil under artificial grass fields? Finally. New artificial turf fields with rubber granulate are still being built. The Animal Party wants the Secretary of State to impose a moratorium on the construction of rubber granulate sports fields until the environmental effects are known. Again, clean soil and clean water are literally vital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u5	Thank you. We all have to stick to the time, even though it's going pretty fast tonight. I would like to give the floor to Mr Ziengs of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u6	Thank you, Mr President. If you're an athlete, like a game of soccer and read all that news about rubber granulate on the fields and under the fields, do you ever think: boy, what am I actually doing? And: is it all that healthy what I'm doing? Athletes are therefore right to be concerned. After all, you want to be able to play football safely on the artificial grass fields, without risk. Of course, you can also rely on the government to take its own environmental rules seriously. The key question is whether the waterboards have been negligent in terms of controls. The Secretary of State stated in her letter that the waterboards carry out many different measurements in the water floor and surface water to map the overall picture of the quality. For these measurements, substances from rubber granulate shall be analysed if they are present. In fact, so far there has not been any evidence that there are substantial risks to humans or the environment because of these substances. Can the Secretary of State explain where these various measurements are made and whether they were also carried out in the vicinity of sports fields with rubber granulate? The Secretary of State also writes in her letter that in recent years several studies have been carried out by RIVM and INTRON on the spread of rubber granulate and on the spread of substances from rubber granulate. These studies show that the rubber granulate sometimes spreads outside the sports fields and that heavy metals have been detected, including in the base of the fields. But isn't it true that the bottom of the sports fields is intended precisely to absorb the limited amount of substances that can be released? Doesn't it make sense that we find these substances there? Can the Secretary of State indicate whether these substances found in the lower layer pose risks to humans and the environment? If there is actual contamination, the owner of the land is liable. Usually this is the municipality, which in cooperation with the province can decide to clean up under the Soil Protection Act. That law describes how to do this. There is a duty of care in relation to groundwater. The Water Act and the General Provisions Act and the Environment Act can also play a role. In short, there are sufficient rules to ensure safety. Reconciliation takes place after analysis and awareness of the nature and risks of pollution. Usually, the restoration and replacement of the field take place at a logical time. It is therefore a good proposal to allow RIVM to better identify the risks. The VVD supports that, too. I'd like to leave it at that for now, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u7	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Aalst of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The artificial grass has caused a lot of misery in the Netherlands. Thanks to the artificial grass we don't go to the World Championships and the summer for a lot of Dutch people is already ruined. Moreover, it is of course your purest distortion of competition, so my club FC Twente has been having a hard time in Almelo for years. And now it turns out to be polluting. Mr. Chairman. So it's time to cut off that artificial grass. I say that not only as a football fan, but also as a concerned MP. Last year the broadcast of ZEMBLA caused a lot of unrest in the Netherlands because of the health risks for children. There many groups, including the PVV, have also asked questions. The core of the broadcast was that the research of the RIVM in which a few adult men had to roll over a field for twenty minutes was completely inadequate. In the broadcast we are discussing today, the RIVM again plays a questionable role, because it has been aware of environmental pollution for ten years. The RIVM has the slogan "The care for tomorrow begins today," but apparently that was not the case in 2007. For although it had already been established at the time that artificial grass grains cause contamination of the soil, until ZEMBLA started doing nothing with it. It is therefore strange to ask RIVM now to investigate this further. The PVV would prefer this to be left to independent experts. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. The water boards have also been sleeping. They were recently surprised by GenX in their water, while simply licensed by the government, and now the broadcast of ZEMBLA shows that they have been ordered by former Minister Cramer to monitor the water around artificial grass fields. They've done it, like, zero times. Zero times, how is that possible? What is the point of these waterboards if they only swallow up our taxpayers' money and do not carry out their duties? Anyway, that's a discussion for another time. Mr. Chairman. The only person who was paying attention was an official at the ministry who was already calling the bell about this at the time. However, PvdA Minister Cramer put this advice aside. So it was a political choice to build these polluting artificial turf fields. The key question now is: to what extent was the Chamber also aware of the concerns of the official who appeared in the broadcast?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u9	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. It's the week of the circular economy. I am very pleased with the attention that has been paid to this, this week, because the circular economy deserves a little support. I'm sure the Secretary of State is just as happy about that. We want a truly sustainable and fully circular economy by 2050. Now, however, we are talking about a subject that is a damn bad example of reuse. Circular economy means a completely different process. The design of a product shall consider how it can be reused or recycled, taking into account the environmental, human and animal impacts. At first glance, the processing of rubber car tires into artificial grass grains for sports fields may seem a nice solution, but that is really naive. We grind car tyres, with toxic substances, into smaller pieces and then bring them into the environment, without ever having properly investigated the impact on soil, the environment and animals. This is not a circular economy, it is a strange way of bringing waste into the environment. Heavy metal leaks into the bottom. That is why we have the following questions on behalf of my group. Is there a violation of waste legislation, as several civil society organisations have indicated? How is it that, when rubber granulate was authorised in 2007, good research was done into the impact of rubber granules on the environment and soil? Haven't there been any signals from the Environmental Inspectorate about pollution and possible consequences before? If so, which ones were they? When exactly can we expect the announced research of the RIVM? Is this RIVM study also looking at the risks and consequences of rubber granulate for animals and the ecosystem? After all, only human health risks have now been investigated. At the request of ZEMBLA, a researcher investigated several sports fields for pollution. This showed that in some fields the soil was severely polluted. Will RIVM carry out measurements on soil, groundwater and surface water in all sports fields? If not, why not? What financial consequences are there if it turns out that there is a need to be reorganised? Who is responsible for this? Mr. Chairman. Rubber granulate on artificial turf fields causes a lot of unrest. At first there was concern about human health, but now it appears that rubber granulate may have far-reaching consequences for soil and drinking water. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consult with municipalities and sports associations or plans for new artificial grass fields can be temporarily put on hold until it is clear to what extent it leads to soil and soil pollution? How much more should we bet on ordinary grass? This is better for CO storage, drainage and the environment. This is really not what the circular economy should be like. We should not bring substances into the environment that are not degradable. That is why I welcome my vote that there is no room for persistent substances in a circular economy. I hope that the cabinet will soon agree to this with industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u11	Nice. Really, exactly in three minutes. I would like to give the floor to Mr Laçin of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. The question that lingers after watching the ZEMBLA documentary about soil layers under artificial grass fields is where all that zinc has gone. The discussion about artificial grass has been going on for ten years and it seems that the end is not yet in sight. Soil experts and sports field advisors indicate that the soil around artificial turf fields is highly contaminated. Last year RIVM considered the health risks of granules to be negligible. Good news for sportsman Netherlands, but also a claim that could not count on scientific consensus. In addition, it appears that the environmental risks are greater than expected. Heavy metals from the base layers and the rubber grains disappear in the soil and water. Hundreds of kilos of rubber a year disappear by field in the immediate vicinity of sports accommodation. It is good that RIVM is currently doing research again, because the image from the documentary creates little confidence. This morning, during the special procedure in connection with Beerput Netherlands, we talked about convicted companies that are participating in our future laws. This also raises the necessary questions in this context. Can the Secretary of State confirm that the tyre industry has put a lot of pressure on the Ministry to keep the rules particularly flexible, with threats such as targets that would not be met and possible damage of millions? Leading scientists from the independent American research organisation EHHI state that 22 investigations of the artificial grass industry worldwide are incomplete or incorrect. For example, there has been insufficient consideration of human health risks and no consideration has been given to what happens when samples of carcinogenic PAHs come into contact with the skin of athletes. Is the Secretary of State familiar with this publication? Can it indicate whether this relates to investigations that have taken place in the Netherlands? Back in 2007, Minister Cramer stated that water quality managers should check for contamination around artificial grass fields. However, it appears that no waterboard has done specific research on this in the last ten years. Have the waterboards been or have they not been commissioned to do this? And if the order has been given, why has it not been carried out and why has it not been enforced? Finally, we would like to hear the exact research question that RIVM has received from the Ministry. What risks are being investigated at the moment and in what time can we expect the results of this study? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u13	Thank you. I would very much like to give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Artificial grass is a nice solution for many associations. Because less maintenance is needed and artificial grass can withstand a higher load than natural grass, it is often a good solution for sports associations and municipalities in the absence of fields. But of course safety must be taken into account. You'll be shocked when you hear waterboards don't do that. People living nearby or parents whose children play in these fields are genuinely shocked by this news. The waterboards must perform their task properly and check that pollution occurs in our soil. Something's gonna go wrong if this doesn't happen. That is why I ask the Secretary of State on behalf of D66 if she recognizes herself in this report. How does she feel about it if it is true that no research was carried out into these effects, whereas this was covered by the responsibilities of the waterboards? Does the Secretary of State have any idea why they weren't checked in this case? To what extent does it have an idea of the cause of this? I'd like a response. We have already asked written questions on this subject. In the answers to our questions, the Secretary of State told the waterboards to address concerns about the environmental damage caused by the use of rubber granulate. We are pleased with that. The PAHs and heavy metals do not belong in our environment. We are therefore considering tabling a motion on this point. The Secretary of State also indicated that she asked RIVM to investigate the environmental impact of rubber granulate. We are pleased with that, too. After all, it's better to be sure. Can the Secretary of State indicate when this investigation will be completed and when we will be informed about it? Mr. Chairman. The most important thing is that Dutch people can rely on good controls. I hope that the Secretary of State can remove fear or uncertainty, for example through the research of the RIVM. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to inform the Netherlands, of course including the House of Representatives, as soon as possible. We'll wait for the investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u15	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the last speaker, and that is Mr von Martels of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I am indeed the last speaker and that makes it difficult to really jump out of the band. The broadcast of ZEMBLA has caused a lot of controversy, but so far the facts have not been able to justify that this has been justified. RIVM's previous research showed that the risks to public health, for the players, are virtually negligible. The European Chemicals Agency also states that the risks are minimal at best. This agency also recommends that users of all artificial turf fields with rubber granulate should be aware of the concentration of PAHs and other materials, such as metals, in the grains. If that is possible, I ask the Secretary of State. Are the owners of artificial turfs doing this too? I also wonder whether it is known which fields are better or worse and whether municipalities and sports clubs are adequately advised on this. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the debate on pollution. Another research is under way by the RIVM into possible contamination of soil and water by rubber granulate around sports fields. Just to be safe, I'd like to ask if it's true that heavy metals have been detected outside these artificial grass fields. What are the risks of environmental pollution and should rules be laid down on artificial turf fields and their construction in order to prevent environmental pollution? There is already a lawsuit against owners of artificial turf fields regarding environmental pollution. What is the State Secretary's assessment of this trial? To my knowledge, I am the only MP who still plays soccer on a weekly basis and almost always on artificial grass fields. I am still doing so in full confidence that this is safe both for me and for the environment. Hopefully there will be no disturbing new facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u17	Thank you. The Secretary of State has requested a five-minute recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u18	I give the floor to the Secretary of State to answer the Members' questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Recently there has been a great deal of attention to the application of rubber granulate, as some Members of the Chamber have said. First, research has been carried out on the health aspects for athletes. I don't do it myself, but in my family there is certainly also a lot of sports on artificial grass fields, so I was also very happy to hear that can be done safely. In principle, the use of recycled material is good, as Mrs Kröger referred to it, because we want a circular economy. The starting point is that soil must be well protected from environmental pollution and that we must be aware of potential risks. It is nice to refer to the Week of the Circular Economy, for which we have extra attention this week, as a kind of start of hopefully many more plans that we are going to carry out in the coming time. We want, of course, to be as high-quality circular as possible. We want to have as few pollutants as possible in the environment. I certainly share that ambition with Mrs Kröger, but apart from that ambition, we are now looking at the current situation. You have rightly asked a number of questions about this with each other. Those questions are not entirely new, because over the past ten years, you have all referred to them. There have already been several investigations into the use of rubber granulate on artificial turf fields. Reference has already been made to a 2007 letter which provides an overview of a number of studies carried out on environmental and health risks associated with the use of rubber pellets in artificial turf fields. At the request of the Ministry of VROM, RIVM looked specifically at the zinc emissions from rubber granulate made from old car tyres. These studies have not revealed any particular health risks, but have shown that sometimes rubber granulate spreads outside the fields and that heavy metals................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In those old studies less attention was paid to environmental risks. It really looked at the health of the athletes. The environmental risks, including the possible spread to soil, soil and surface water, were less acute at the time, but they must of course be investigated. Therefore, at the beginning of October 2017 I did not do so, but my predecessor, of course; honor who should be honored; therefore I tell the RIVM to investigate concentrations of harmful substances in the vicinity of artificial grass fields. For the effect on water, it is indeed the waterboards, which you have also referred to as those responsible for the management of regional surface waters, including the bottom of the water and the shore. The water boards do monitor regularly on general water quality, including the water floor and the shore. One of you specifically asked about that. So that's part of that. At the moment, I have no reason to believe that the waterboards are not doing their job properly. Something has changed since 2007. In 2009, the Water Act came into force. On the basis of the Water Act, a number of these monitoring obligations have been established. There is therefore a difference with the situation prior to the introduction of the Water Act, which you may have referred to. At the end of last year, the Water Boards commissioned the STOWA, the Foundation for Applied Research Water Management, to look specifically at the effects of possible leakage of substances from rubber granulate applications on water life near sports fields. One of you asked that question; I think that was Mr Ziengs. He asked: is the watercourses near sports fields explicitly looked at the drainage? Yeah, that's what they're looking at. STOWA does so in close cooperation with RIVM. Some of you have asked what happens to the soil underneath such an artificial turf field. We know that zinc can indeed drain from these rubber grains; it can release and sink into the soil. Because we know that, there have been all kinds of recommendations for a long time for how to put such a layer under an artificial turf field to ensure that you have a kind of catch tray in which that zinc is retained, to prevent you from actually getting soil contamination. So those sublayers are crucial to prevent zinc from spreading into the environment. So you really need to see that layer as a buffer in which those kinds of substances that could possibly be drained are collected, and which can also be easily cleaned. So there is a distinction between the "catch layer" and the soil. Previous research has so far not shown that the soil below that catch is contaminated by the granulate if the artificial turf fields are properly landscaped. But that too is the subject of new research, because we want to know for sure. I expect both investigations around the summer. So we're assuming that the bottom layer will take it all, but we're also investigating it. Therefore, if there is any reason to take additional measures, we will be discussing them before the summer when I have the results of those investigations. Mr. Chairman. These were a number of general points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u20	Secretary of State, I see an interruption by Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u21	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u22	Maybe I can mention one small point first? Perhaps that refers to what Mrs Kröger wants to interrupt about. Then I've finished my general story and I've come to some specific questions. Of course, you want these rubber pellets to have as little effect as possible, also referring to the link made by Mrs Kröger with the circular economy. Meanwhile, RIVM is also proposing stricter standards, which should then be applied in Europe to the use of rubber granulate in sports fields. If it's all right, we have that proposal in mid-April. So we can simply try to ensure, at European level too, that the standards for these grains are tightened at all, so that we reduce the risks by that route too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u23	Let me look at Mrs Kröger and see if she has answered her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u24	No, Mr President, I had a question about something completely different, namely those containers for water. My question is actually: is this applied to all artificial turf fields in this way? Did the artificial turf fields the soil of which has been investigated by Zembla, where heavy soil contamination has been found, have such a container?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u25	I dare not say if those sports fields had that, but the agreement is that if you build an artificial turf, you put a good soil underneath it, just to absorb those harmful substances. And that's the responsibility of whoever builds it. It has to be done that way. They have a duty of care, and this is part of that duty of care. So whether it was in those specific cases is exactly the reason for an investigation, so you can also see if it went well or not somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u26	Finally, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u27	Just as well to understand: does the Secretary of State say that if there is such a collection system, there can be no soil contamination and that in the cases of soil contamination, therefore, there is no collection mechanism? Then my question would be: will the Secretary of State check all artificial grass fields in the Netherlands to see if they have such a good container?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u28	You just have a duty of care as an owner. Part of that duty of care is to make sure you put that underlay well. If there are flaws in that, as owner, you are also responsible for cleaning up the problems. And so the owners also have every interest in creating such an artificial turf field properly, in order to avoid contamination and then have to bear the cost of cleaning up. So there is an inherent incentive. That is not a guarantee that it has always gone well everywhere, but that is the system. But even within that system, I am still investigating whether, despite the layer that we thought to each other so far was sufficient, there is still reason to believe that zinc would spread even further. And that's what we're investigating.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u29	Thank you. This calls for an interruption by Mrs Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u30	I actually have an interruption following an earlier remark by the Secretary of State. She indicated that there is a proposal in the pipeline and that we can expect stricter standards for the application of rubber granules in April. That prompted me to ask the following question. Shouldn't we really want that substance not to be present in the rubber granules at all? If we consider the idea of the circular economy for a moment, should we not want it not to be present in rubber tyres and tyres?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u31	On the one hand, we have a situation that has been so from the past to the present. We know that there is zinc in it, that that application is allowed and that this has effects. For that, you have to take good precautions. Then the question is: how would you like it in the future? You want old bands to be re-used in a good way and, ideally, to come back as a band again, or to get a high-quality application in another way. That is, of course, still better than dumping or burning, but you must continue to strive for the increasing removal of these harmful metals from the cycle. Once again, such a proposal to introduce stricter standards for what may be in the grains is a first step in this. In this sense, I share the ambition: ideally, it is not in it. Does that mean you can't apply it at all? And what are the consequences, including for the environment, if you ban it altogether, when you can prevent it from getting into the environment by collecting zinc? You'll have to weigh the options against each other. But the aim is, of course, not to get as many of these substances into the environment as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u32	The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u33	Since there were some questions about the division of powers, it might be good if I systematically go over that again with you. The Environmental Management Act and the Activity Decision lay down rules on sports accommodation, including the discharge of sky water from the sports fields. Then you're talking about the lavage Mrs Kröger was talking about. The Soil Protection and Underlying Regulation Act forms part of the legal framework for the application of the rubber granulate. The Soil Protection Act therefore contains this general duty of care. Anyone who carries out activities on or in the soil that you can reasonably suspect may result in contamination must also ensure, as far as is reasonably possible, that this pollution is prevented. This reasonableness is related to: what knowledge is there, what is the state of the art? The municipality or province shall ensure compliance as competent authority. The municipalities and the province must ensure that the land in their municipalities remains clean by any use they permit. Partly at the request of the Ministry, the industry has prepared a handout to build and manage fields in the best possible way, to prevent contamination and to ensure that municipalities know what to look for. The Water Act prohibits the introduction of contaminated substances into surface water unless authorised. Anyway, we just had another debate on that. The water boards are competent for discharge to the regional surface water bodies. They can appeal to the owners or administrators for the distribution of granules or the disposal of contaminated drainage water and therefore also write specific customized rules. I should like to make it clear what the system of powers is. Then a number of questions have been asked. The first question was: why do research into the effects of the spread of rubber granulate from sports fields on the environment? It is known that rubber granulate disappears from the fields. I also regularly see the grains in the bathroom or in front of the washing machine at my home. There are not really good figures about how many granules enter the vicinity of such a field. Of course, you need to know it first in order to determine how big the problem is. I asked RIVM to investigate the environmental impact of granulate dispersal, or substances that wash from it, and the waterboards asked the STOWA to do so. I already referred to that. The results are expected in the middle of this year. So there are a number of investigations coming up. If I have them, I'll put them together in a letter to you: what kind of knowledge can we get out of this? You'll get all that information. I have already answered the questions about the system of responsibilities. Let me now turn to the possible consequences of zinc emissions. Unless the bottom layer of sand and lava, which consists of that "dish," is properly used, there is no risk of soil contamination. But again, let's see if there's still a possibility underneath. What happens to that layer when an artificial turf field is renovated? It might be interesting to know that, too. The person renovating the field shall assess whether the re-use of rubber granulate and the layer is possible. Sometimes they can be reused in another place, but sometimes they can't. Then they must also be disposed of to an authorised processor. Then we realize that it's a layer of zinc and that it can't just be dumped. We also had a little debate earlier on the spread of substances. This is prevented by the fact that it has to be disposed of to an authorised processor. Then there were a number of specific questions. I think I might have a few more questions in a moment, should you miss any answers. But I think some of the questions overlapped too. Mrs. Arissen asked how many artificial turf fields are there? She was talking about 1,800 artificial turf fields. I understand that that corresponds to the numbers we know. So that's about the scope we're talking about. A question was asked about a moratorium. We are doing a lot of research, but certainly because we know that there is no health risk for athletes, there is no real reason to say that a moratorium should now be introduced. We're all investigating it. If, after all these investigations, there is reason to take other measures, then we will have a debate on this with each other. But basically, if an artificial turf field is well laid out, the bottom captures those substances and therefore there is little risk of further spread. Once again, we are examining it carefully, but I do not see any reason to impose a moratorium now. It was also asked: what exactly are RIVM and STOWA investigating; what questions do they ask themselves? RIVM's current research questions relate to the concentration of rubber granulate and artificial grass particles around the artificial turf fields. To what extent do substances derived from rubber granulate and artificial turf particles occur in water and soil around artificial turf fields? Are there risks to soil and water life? Are there any risks to humans due to the consumption of vegetable garden crops that have been irrigated with ditch water near artificial turf fields? STOWA will look at the effects on water life using bio-essays and see if there are any effects of exposure of organisms to water samples. Then there was a question from Mr Van Aalst about RIVM. I have every confidence in that. Mrs Kröger asked if there was a timely alert. In the letter of 23 April 2007, you will also see that there have been indications that there are risks and that a number of steps have been taken immediately to mitigate those risks. The knowledge that was there at the time was also applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u34	Mrs. Kröger is standing by the interrupting microphone. I'm just checking to see if you've answered all of Mrs Kröger's questions in order to avoid overlaps.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u35	At least there was another question from Mr von Martels. He asked for an assessment of the lawsuit. If it's under the judge, it's up to me not to make an assessment of that right now. So we have to wait and see what the outcome is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u36	I would like to give the floor to Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question was specifically whether the research of RIVM also looks at the impact on animals. So that's wider than water life. For example, if the grains end up in the forest or in the meadow, this can also have an impact on birds and other animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u38	I don't read that in the research assignment. There is a broad assessment of the risks to soil and water life. But it is said that there is a possibility to also see if there would be effects on animals. I think it makes sense for us to take that with us. We'll see how we can blur that on the assignment. That is a good suggestion from Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u39	I thank the Secretary of State. If this suggestion for the investigation can be taken, I'd be very happy with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u40	Yeah, that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u41	The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u42	I'll look through the questions. I think I have answered the most important questions in the broad lines of what this debate is about. If there are still very specific questions that Members say 'I would like to have an answer to get my picture of where we are at the moment in the debate, waiting for those surveys to be carried out before the summer', I would be happy to hear it. Sometimes it happened very quickly, so I also hope that I have been able to write them down to a high degree, but perhaps I have forgotten a single question. I see that this is the case with Mr Laçin, for which I apologise in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u43	I give Mr Laçin the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u44	I have two more questions I would like answered. I believe that Mrs Arissen has also referred to the lobby of the tyre industry and the flexible regulation that has been introduced as a result. Can you respond to that? I also quoted an independent American research organisation, EHHI, which states that 22 investigations of the artificial grass industry worldwide have been incomplete or incorrect. Has that had any influence on the investigations that have taken place in the Netherlands in the past?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u45	What was changed here ten years ago is very well reflected in all the Acts. If Mr Laçin has any questions about this, it is all public information. I would say: look again if you see any specific reasons for these questions. As far as the investigations are concerned, we have, of course, carried out our own investigations. On the basis of the research information we have obtained, decisions have been taken here in the Netherlands. We have taken decisions on the basis of the information provided by our own research institutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u46	Thank you. I see that there is also a question from Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u47	Following on from my colleague from the SP: we asked the following question, the big key question at the end. That official was informed and expressed his concerns, but to what extent was the Chamber aware of this? I still have that question open. I also had an open question about the waterboards. An order has already been given by the former Minister Cramer. It's never really done anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u48	To start with your second question: the water boards are simply obliged to do all kinds of research from 2009 on the basis of the Water Act. So that's what they do. This will monitor what Mr Van Aalst thinks is important. Then there's the question of whether the Chamber was aware. I think the letter from 2007 is rather extensive. It refers to all kinds of investigations. Reference is also made to the follow-up to those investigations. My question to Mr Van Aalst would be: what is specifically what he is wondering if the Chamber was aware of? It's been 10 years, of course. Everything's gone public. There have also been WOB procedures. Then everything was made public, up to the internal notes in the department. I believe that the Chamber has been able to take note of everything, but I would like to hear where there is a specific concern with Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u49	Of course, we're surprised. There were concerns with the officials at the Ministry. After that, nothing really happened. Now there's a broadcast of ZEMBLA and everyone suddenly gets to work. Then I think: couldn't we have started investigating something in those ten years rather than waiting for such a broadcast to come?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u50	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but that nothing happened, I can't quite get it out of the letter. In 2007, for example, RIVM was asked to look specifically at zinc emissions at the request of the Ministry of VROM. A number of conclusions have been drawn. On this basis, a number of measures have also been taken. It was said at the time that the government concludes that it may lead to environmental risks. It is desirable for industry to indicate by 1 July 2007 what measures are being taken. This applies explicitly to all environmental aspects of all types of rubber granulate. There was consultation with industry at the time, and it was said in consultation with the competent authority that, if necessary, measures should be taken and a specific duty of care should be included in general legislation. It is right that there was attention at the time, and rightly so that attention is now being paid again, but that attention has indeed been paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u51	Actually, very briefly, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has already indicated that she has every confidence in the RIVM. If we look at the past ten years, we do not have that so much, especially when we look at the previous study: 20 minutes of rolling over the field and then coming up with a report. So, yeah, we don't have that confidence. If that is the message about the last ten years, then we will return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u52	Mr President, I take note that Mr Van Aalst feels differently, but I fully support RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u53	Thank you. I think you'd already come to the end of your speech. Let me look at the Members to see if there is still a need for a second term. I can see that there is a need for that. I'll suspend the sitting for five minutes and then we'll move on to the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u54	First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Arissen of the Animal Party, who is also the applicant for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u55	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply and for the commitment to my colleague that animals will also be part of the research and that research will therefore also be carried out into the effects of rubber granulate on animals. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the effects of the use of rubber granulate in artificial turf fields on humans, animals, nature and the environment have not yet been adequately investigated;]] [[noting that RIVM is carrying out a follow-up study on the environmental impact of rubber granulate in artificial turf fields;]] [[noting that new sports fields are still being set up with rubber granulate;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a moratorium on the construction of rubber granulate artificial grass fields pending the research results of the RIVM study,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30234-170]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The answer of the Secretary of State regarding RIVM and the investigation did not reassure us. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that artificial grass grains are not only a disaster for us football but also pose risks to people and the environment;]] [[whereas the RIVM only acts decisively after ZEMBLA reports;]] [[calls on the Government to have the impact on man and the environment of the rubber granulate that lies on and below the artificial turfs thoroughly investigated by a team of independent experts sent to the Chamber before the end of this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30234-171]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u57	Mr President, two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to identify, together with municipalities and provinces, whether artificial grass underlays have been constructed in accordance with the rules in force, so as to minimise soil contamination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment (RIVM) is currently investigating possible environmental impacts of rubber granulate, and will publish this around the summer of 2018;]] [[Considers it unwise to build new artificial turf fields with rubber granulate until then, due to possible conclusions of the RIVM study;]] [[calls on the Government to consult sports turrets and municipalities on the possibilities of suspending the construction of artificial turf fields with rubber granulate until the environmental impact study is completed, or to replace it with other (artificial turf) alternatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30234-172]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30234-173]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u58	Thank you, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important to focus as much as possible on the high-quality reuse of materials and (ground) substances;]] [[Whereas it is important for the circular economy to stimulate business models such as safe by design;]] [[Whereas subsequent costs for waterboards and sports associations caused by environmental pollution should be avoided as far as possible;]] [[calls on the government to identify this year how environmental pollutants can in future be avoided as far as possible from the design of tyres to stimulate clean reuse of materials and thus the circular economy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30234-174]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u59	All motions are now almost in, and that's very nice. The Secretary of State is also ready and can respond to the motions. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much to the Chamber for the motions that have been tabled, to which I would like to respond. The motions on the documents Nos. I can take 170 and 173 together, because they are both really about whether we can put in place a moratorium. I dissuade both of these motions. We are doing more careful research, but there is no reason to say that there should be a moratorium at the moment. Let's wait and see. Then we can see that comes out. Municipalities and gymnasiums know those investigations are coming. Of course, they can always make the decision to wait for themselves, but it is not really up to me to announce a moratorium. I'm doing more research. That is why I do not recommend the motions on the items Nos. 170 and 173 for that reason. If I could avert a disaster for us football, it would be worth a sweet thing to me too. But I'm afraid I won't be able to do that in this room tonight. I actually think I can make Mr Van Aalst very happy, because he wants, above all, an independent investigation and I can tell him that this is being carried out by RIVM. I know he feels differently about that, but it's being carried out. So this motion is unnecessary, and that's why I'm not advising her. There's really a careful investigation going on. I went to visit RIVM the other day. There are a lot of people there who work with a lot of heart, passion and knowledge to provide us with decision-making information as best as possible. I only see the motion as an incentive for Mr Van Aalst to take action with each other if there are risks. Of course I share that. Then the motion to part No. 172, by Mrs Kröger. It invites the government, together with municipalities and provinces, to identify whether the underlayers have been constructed in accordance with the rules in force. I was thinking straight away about the discussion we're having about the pools. There are things I'm just not up to. Under the Soil Protection Act, the owner has a duty of care. That's why I brought that system with me. It is up to the supervisor, in most cases the municipality, to monitor a proper construction of the field. They're also paying for the costs. I would, of course, like to point out once again to municipalities and provinces that they have this duty of care, that we have these investigations carried out and that it is good to have a map of what lies among them, so that at least they are aware of them. I can't go beyond that. Then there must be really different situations. It is therefore up to the supervisor, in most cases the municipality, and the owner simply has a duty of care. If something's wrong, they'll pay for it. That is an effective incentive to ensure a good soil.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u61	What is your verdict on this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u62	I must also, unfortunately, discourage this motion. Then there is the motion by Mrs Van Eijs, on item No. 174, which calls for consultation in order to see how we can remove substances that are environmentally harmful as far as possible in the future and therefore also look at tyre design in this respect. It is important to use smart and circular design "design for recycling" or "safe by design" to call that "safe by design" to strengthen the business case for clean and high-quality reuse of these materials. I agree with the importance of developing new initiatives for safe raw materials and high-quality reuse and I am prepared to discuss this with producers. Of course, they also have a very important role to play in making these tyres suitable for high-quality recycling. The producer will continue to determine what is in the product he is marketing, but I would be happy to have a conversation. I could take over the motion or I could leave her to the Court's judgment. I'm willing to take her over. I can have a conversation like that. That's up to the members.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u63	I'll see if there's any objection to taking over this motion. I see that there is an objection to it, so we are simply going to vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u64	Then I'll leave her to the Court's judgment, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u65	Thank you. I believe that you have dealt with all the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-01-18-tweedekamer-13.u66	We are going to vote on the motions next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State for her presence and the Members of Parliament as well.
