ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the VAO Business Policy. I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs and the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, as well as the MPs, and there is also someone in the public gallery and the viewers at home. Seven members have checked in. A few people have two minutes and a number of people have not given up speaking time. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When we talk about companies, as during the AO, we often think about products, their brand, their office building or sometimes their founder. But what is a company without the hardworking people who sometimes work days and nights on the work floor for that company? For example, what would Carlyle, the American investor who will take over AkzoNobel's chemical branch, have without the 2,500 people with unique knowledge and skills? We must therefore stand up for our people in the workplace, who, together with their colleagues, are working day in and day out of the Netherlands, and not for those people who fail on the other side of the world with money and think that they can make the most of it in countries in which they take over companies. In short, we in our companies must get rid of the mentality that the payer also determines everything. Let us treat the staff with the respect they deserve. That's why I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that AkzoNobel's chemical branch is sold to the American investor Carlyle;]] [[also noted that the billions' income goes to shareholders for the most part, while the pension fund has a gap of EUR 400 million and employees are at risk of losing a large part of their pension commitment;]] [[calls on the government to make a maximum effort to pay EUR 400 million into the pension fund by Carlyle and to remind this investment company of their responsibility for the 2,500 employees they take over from a centuries-old Dutch company,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32637-305]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u3	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that long-term value creation has been given more attention in the revised Corporate Governance Code, but that the relationship between employees, shareholders and management of the company is still hardly addressed;]] [[considers that employee involvement is essential in long-term value creation;]] [[calls on the Government to engage in annual discussions with the so-called supporting parties on the functioning of the Corporate Governance Code and to make efforts to include employee involvement in the board of listed companies in the Code at the next meeting,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32637-306]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Corporate social responsibility was discussed during the general consultation. The Labour Party considers this to be an important point. Whatever's vulnerable deserves protection. These include human rights, workers' rights and children's rights. My question to the Secretary of State is whether she would like to take another look at this before the draft law goes to the Chamber in its final form. Will the Secretary of State pay attention to that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u5	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got a mini-movement on me. No, I don't have a motion. I do have two questions. We discussed quite a lot during the general consultation, but there were two current developments at two companies important for the Netherlands. So I would like to ask two questions about that. The first one is about Siemens Hengelo. I was there in February. At that time, it was expected that there would be a conclusion before 1 March. We're already past April 1st. There will probably be a debate next week, but I would like to check now whether the cabinet is keeping its finger on the pulse and whether we are really going to hear news this week, because that has been the promise again. I know I can't ask anything else about it. I won't. Anyway, one signal would be nice. Then we'll talk again next week. This also applies to another subject, but I am making more of a call for it. In preparation for the debate on protection against takeovers, which we probably will have next week, I would nevertheless like to have a reflection from the cabinet on the fact that there has been a lot of fuss about AkzoNobel. An industry partner's bid has been stopped and now the chemical branch is being sold to a private equity company. That is exactly what we would rather not want. That is the reaction to stopping an offer from an industry partner. We have had several discussions about protection against takeovers. We've been talking about this for five years, since Carlos Slim tried to take over here in the Netherlands. But we haven't achieved anything yet. There is a letter, but would the cabinet still like to reflect on the question: are we doing well with each other? 'Cause this isn't really what you want anyway. You want real economic activity to be at the heart of it, don't you? You don't want to make money by reselling parts, do you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u7	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Veldman of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u8	Mr. Chairman. The German Government has agreed in its government that it intends to impose a ban on mail order trade in prescription medicines. We discussed this in general some time ago, but at that time the new German Government was not yet a fact. At that time, her coalition agreement was still merely a plan. At that time, we were not able to make any concluding agreements with the Secretary of State, even though we are concerned. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the new German Government, in its coalition agreement, has expressed its intention of banning the mail-order trade in prescription medicines;]] [[whereas this is contrary to the free movement of goods in the EU and also to the European directives on Internet commerce;]] [[noting that the implementation of this plan affects, among other things, Dutch companies, representing around 1,100 jobs and a turnover of EUR 350 million (2016);]] [[calls on the Government not to wait until German legislation has actually been notified to the European Commission, but to discuss with the new German Government the proposed ban on mail order marketing of prescription medicines in relation to the free movement of goods in the EU as well as the European Directive on Internet Commerce,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Veldman and Mr Paternotte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32637-307]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u9	Mr. Chairman. During the AO we talked about Siemens Hengelo. That was just appointed by GroenLinks' colleague. For many employees there is and remains a lot of uncertainty. This uncertainty arose after it became known that closure and sale of Siemens Hengelo is being considered. It seemed to be moving in the right direction for a while, but recently it came to the notice that Siemens has sent a request for an opinion on the closure of the Hengelo branch to Siemens Nederland's Supervisory Board. We have also asked written questions about this. We'd like to see the answers to that. For now, I would like more clarity from the Minister on Siemens' intention. You indicated earlier in reply to written questions from us that Siemens is committed to maintaining jobs, that Siemens feels responsible for the staff and that Siemens is committed to doing everything possible to minimise the impact on staff. Is it the Minister's experience that this has also been the case in recent months or does the Minister taste a tilting in the process? Mr. Chairman. We would also like to thank the cabinet for the clarity that has been given about the investments in, for example, Eindhoven and Zeeland mainport. It is good news that the cabinet reserves 130 million for Eindhoven and 35 million for the Zeeland economy. The Eindhoven region is an important growth region for the Southeast of the Netherlands and also of national importance. And also for Zeeland, strengthening a sustainable economic structure is important, given the opportunities offered by its unique location in the delta and the special characteristics described in the opinion of the Balkenende Committee. The CDA Group is curious as to how the Secretary of State of EZK remains involved in the topics of mainport Eindhoven and Zeeland in Stroomvigel 2.0 and how and when the EZK Committee can receive an update on the progress made on these two dossiers. And we don't have a motion. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u10	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66, who, in my view, has a motion. No, no motion, either? Well, then you'll have to say "unfortunately."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u11	Unfortunately, no motion. However, I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the Minister for the clear answer in general consultation. We have already noted in this consultation that the Dutch economy is on the move and that we need to make maximum use of it in our view and that we need to focus on growth for our own companies and entrepreneurs. But on the other hand, we also need to attract as much foreign investment as possible and we had questions about that at the AO. At that time we noticed that the Netherlands is actually out of tune because the number of foreign investments was even falling. It turned out that we were looking at EY figures while the minister was starting from other figures. The Minister has sorted that out and explained it in a letter, for which he thanked. The report on which we based ourselves uses a different methodology than the NFIA on which the Minister based himself. Then you could say that the air is clear, but on the basis of the letter we still have two questions, because it turns out that we are still not achieving the European average. The Netherlands is less behind than we thought, but we are still in the right row and as far as we are concerned we should go from the right row to the top in terms of foreign investment. I think the Secretary of State knows what I'm talking about, but for the Minister: this is a football metaphor! Finally, Mr President. Apparently, the NFIA does not publish all the successful investment projects. That's what the letter showed. Can the Minister explain on the basis of which the NFIA's assessment is made to publish or not publish successful investment projects? I am asking for this, because for transparency, the imagery and the reports that EY makes about it, it is, of course, beneficial to share those successes. So I'd like another response from the Minister to these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u12	That raises a question from Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u13	Not on Mr Paternotte's speech, but it still gives me the opportunity to put a question on the motion that was co-tabled by Mr Paternotte. I'm just wondering what the background to this is. I know of several governmental agreements from other countries in which people want things that are not always allowed by Europe. Part of that also applies to our own government agreements. I wonder why the government should consult with the new government in Germany on this particular point. If it is contrary to the EU, it simply does not come about and I would therefore like you to give a little more text and explanation. It's kind of coming out of the sky for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u14	We see this as a potential barrier to companies established in the Netherlands that want to offer the pharmacy product in an innovative way in this case. It seems to us extremely bad that Germany should now want new European rules to protect vested interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u15	I can imagine that in itself, but Germany will have to go to Europe with that, and we are simply represented there, and there are a lot of opportunities for that discussion. Why send a mission on that side again? I do not fully understand the added value of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u16	I understand that. It is quite important for the Dutch economy. We have regular bilateral contact with other countries. It is not for nothing that our own Prime Minister is now in charge of a whole group of Member States representing certain interests. Waiting for something to arrive in Brussels? We have heard before from these rulers that this is a defeat strategy, because then you wait until a majority has already signed off. Our proposal is to prevent this from happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u17	Thank you. The directors have indicated that they need a few minutes' suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u18	I shall give the floor to the Minister first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u19	Mr. Chairman. I'll do the questions first and then I'll come to two motions. First of all, there is a question from Mr Van der Lee, who has been asked at least as eloquent by Mr Amhaouch. This concerns concerns that we really share. Mr Amhaouch wonders whether there is a tilting in the process. Yes, there is a tilting in the process, but there is still no tilting in the targets. The objectives are still pursued by all parties. The negotiations with the potential takeover candidates have gone farther than they had hoped in the beginning and have also gone farther than they had hoped. That means for as many as 600 people there is uncertainty. Siemens started the consultation process in parallel. Possibly more about this will be known this week. The parties remain committed to the process of negotiating the takeover. The target hasn't changed. It goes on forever, but we are not expected to be out of it this week. BZK is involved in all kinds of ways, including other parties such as the province and the municipality. The aim remains to maintain employment and to achieve job security for these people. Whatever role this government has to play, I'm willing to pick it up where it's useful. However, we do not yet have the desired clarity. I think that's a bit of a setback. What reassures me is that the parties are still saying that they are pursuing the same objective. So it takes longer than expected. We don't like it, but we can't change it now. Mr Van der Lee had a specific question which he formulated as a concern. He said Specialty Chemicals has now been taken over by a private equity company. That is exactly not the intention, he said literally; this is not what you want. Yes, this is not what Mr Van der Lee wants, but AkzoNobel has set not only financial but also non-financial criteria, including sustainability. And the company is quite proud that it has managed to find a party that was willing to meet all those conditions. In addition to sustainability objectives, therefore, there are no plans to split up the chemical branch. So I honestly would not agree with Mr Van der Lee that this is not exactly what you mean. What we want is for socially responsible companies to produce meaningful products and provide jobs. There is no reason to believe that this will not be the case with this or any other private equity firm a priori.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u20	Thank you. That raises a question for Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u21	I think we'll talk about it a little longer next week. I say, this is not what we want. I say this because it seems to be mainly aimed at bringing in a large amount of money to satisfy shareholders. It is not necessarily aimed at building up a valuable economic activity which, if possible, will continue to take place in the Netherlands, with all the positive effects on employment. These effects are already positive if they are done in a more sustainable way. In that respect, it's strange that you're trying to exclude an industry partner as a takeover candidate, but eventually you're selling a substantial part to a equity company that wants to secure money for shareholders in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u22	I do not share the view that building a company to produce meaningful products would be wrong for shareholder value. If we believe in that world, we have to overthrow our entire system. Shareholders of all kinds, including private equity companies, can make a very clear contribution to the further growth of meaningful companies that provide meaningful products. A private equity vision and a reaction from the cabinet have recently appeared. So I am not going to go along with that and I will not explain here that this is going to fail for the social objectives. I cannot answer Mr Paternotte's first question now, and I shall come back to it once; this is a commitment. Mr Paternotte's second question is: why does NFIA not publish all the successes? What NFIA does is only show off its own feathers. So parties who come to the Netherlands without the fact that NFIA has had a clear interference with this, are not included in the NFIA list. In fact, we would have misinformed the Chamber about the merits of NFIA. Believe it or not, there are also companies that can make decisions without the help of the government. Mr Paternotte and I are now looking at each other confused: how is that possible? It's possible! Therefore, the companies with which NFIA had no involvement are not included in the statistics. Two motions have been tabled in my area.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u23	However, there is a first reaction from Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u24	The minister says that these companies do not appear in the statistics. But they do appear in the statistics, just not in the published list of successes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u25	Yes, they appear in EY's statistics, for example, but not in NFIA's statistics, and Mr Paternotte mentioned the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u26	The statistics of EY are based on publications...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u27	Certainly, and there are also the parties who do not come here as a result of NFIA intervention. In the NFIA list are all the parties who come here thanks to the NFIA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u28	That was the Minister. Now Mr Paternotte is speaking again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u29	It is also possible that companies do not come into the publicity, not even have been brought in by the NFIA, but still constitute a new foreign investment in the Netherlands. So, in theory, these companies are some kind of hidden Easter eggs that we don't know about?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u30	The fear now arises that there are companies that settle here without the House of Representatives taking notice of it. It's getting worse! Yes, both lists are subsets of reality. One list does not contain the parties that have not been published, the other does not contain the parties that did not come here by NFIA. I think you should learn to live with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u31	Mr Paternotte, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u32	The reason I want to know is, of course, not that it would be bad if the government had no role in it; we are indeed liberal. I'm asking because we'd like to know how well we're doing. This, of course, affects the wonderful commitment made by the Minister to give us answers later on to the questions why the Netherlands is below the European average and how we can get to the summit. Is it not important that we know what foreign investment we have attracted?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u33	This requires that we have all foreign investment from the government on the radar and we cannot guarantee that either. Moreover, other countries cannot guarantee that either. I shall return in writing to Mr Paternotte's first question and if I remember anything about his second question, I will add that, because I see that his curiosity is not yet entirely satisfied. I shall continue, because Mr Alkaya has tabled a motion, on item No. 305, which asks the government to make an effort to make a deposit by a private party to a pension fund. That is not the role of the government. Pensions are for social partners themselves. There is government supervision on all fronts, for example by DNB and others, but I do not see this as a role of the government and I do not intend to do so. I'm dissuading the motion. In the motion in part No. 306 calls on Mr Alkaya to persuade the supporting parties to include employee involvement in the code at the next meeting. Firstly, we should not preach that the agreements which the supporting parties themselves agreed upon after extensive consultation should be subject to amendment by the government, which has nothing to do with that. Secondly, it is not the right platform either, because the Corporate Governance Code only applies to listed companies. So that is a very incomplete platform to talk about participation within companies. We have other channels for this, which apply not only to listed companies. By the way, we have a whole arsenal of them; much more Rhineland than this it does not get on earth. So we do, but that has to be enforced in a different way and not through the code. That really isn't the right platform. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u34	At the same time, the Corporate Governance Code certainly serves to share best practices with each other? It is an agreement between private parties, in which they indicate: if we do it this way, we are doing well. It's the government that lays that down in the law. So the government is definitely not a neutral player in this. We lay down in the law that this is a best practice method. Then the listed companies that do not comply with it have to explain why they do not comply with the code. So it is quite conceivable that in those best practices we also take the best practices of companies that have employee control in order? That's not unthinkable, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u35	No, but it's unwise. It's legally anchored, that's true. That is a legal role, but it is legally anchored in the sense that the parties should give text and explanation of what they have agreed together on what they are best practices. With regard to this, they didn't do that. That is also quite understandable, because it would be a very strange best practice to prescribe participation agreements only for listed companies. That is why, and Mr Alkaya will like it, the government has taken responsibility for developing a legal framework for participation separately. That's separate from this code. So what Mr Alkaya wants is already legally anchored but in a different way and should not be added here incomplete and non-compliant to the desire of the supporting parties. That's not what I'm trying to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u36	Mr. Alkaya, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u37	Rounding up, indeed. I always find it difficult to say "it's unwise" or "it can't." It's a political choice not to, and I understand that. Control and involvement of employees, as stated in the motion, do not necessarily have to go to the participation bodies as laid down in the Works Councils Act for example. This can also be arranged in very different ways and companies have best practices. What I am asking here from the government, from the government and therefore from this minister is to facilitate the discussion on this issue. I'm sure he can. If he doesn't, it's a political choice. But then he shouldn't say it's unwise or can't be. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister that he chooses not to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u38	I really believe that is extremely unwise. In fact, we have arranged for participation for companies in the broad sense. This would relate only to a subset of it. So we're gonna settle something that's already been arranged for everyone, but here separately. I don't think that's wise. So it's my choice not to. How political that is, I leave it to Mr Alkaya; he may appoint it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u39	Thank you. Then I'd be happy to give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Moorlag of the Labour Party asked me a question which I think is about the Space for Sustainability Initiatives Act. He asked me to consider the limited choice I have made for the time being, namely to give a wider scope only in climate and animal welfare situations. We have already discussed this in general consultation. At that time I also explained to Mr Moorlag why I do not think that is sensible and why I want to start small. Moreover, this law is now in the hands of the Council of State and we are going to talk about it in detail. Mr Amhaouch of the CDA Group asked me about the plans for mainport Eindhoven and Zeeland. It's best to look in the cabinet once in a while. As you know, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of the Interior are working together on the so-called regional envelope, and the economic developments and innovation objectives in Eindhoven and Zeeland are my responsibility. What we do with each other is determine what the regional deals that need to be closed for these two places look like. For Zeeland that is just a bit different than for Eindhoven. You could also read this in the letters sent to the Chamber by the Minister of LNV. With regard to Eindhoven, of course, I am involved in the content of these regional deals and, of course, in the development of the Brainport Agenda for Action. For Zeeland, the Minister of LNV does so together with the Minister of the Interior, but when it comes to economic developments, of course, my ministry is also involved. That goes without saying. With regard to Zeeland, the Ministry of EZK is in the Economic Board Zeeland and is thus involved. That's the formal answer. But am I passionately involved? Of course, because it concerns two beautiful areas of the Netherlands with great economic potential. That's why I'm interfering when I can. Then I have a motion, Mr President, namely that of item No. 307 by Mr Veldman and Mr Paternotte. This motion concerns the intention of the German Government in the coalition agreement to ban mail order trade in prescription drugs. The cabinet is also concerned about the compatibility of this ban with the free movement of goods and services, and its impact on Dutch industry. At official and political level this is already in close contact with Germany. Developments are being monitored. Minister Blok has also had a discussion about this. I will also raise this at the moment when I speak to German colleagues. In doing so, this motion supports the policy and I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u41	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-04-05-tweedekamer-11.u42	Voting on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday. I would like to thank the members of the government and the Members of Parliament. I'm suspending the meeting for a few minutes.
