ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on municipalities which do not spend on the fight against child poverty. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment to trade union K. I give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA as the first speaker. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr President. 400,000 children in the Netherlands live in poverty. That's over one in nine kids. One in nine children lives in poverty. This means that these children cannot participate fully. That means something for how you shape your life, that you constantly make choices in the family that may not be for the benefit of the child. After all, the child wants to participate in sports, wants to participate in the school trip and just wants to be able to participate fully. That's what that kid wants to be sure of. The personal stories still do me the most. There are children who do indeed play soccer with shoes with holes in them, who indeed have to decide with parents: this school trip costs some extra money; that may be a bit difficult for us, because we don't have that much money to spend. That's a lot of stress for those kids, and it puts kids at a disadvantage. That's something we all shouldn't want and fight together. In the toughest crisis years of the past cabinet period, however, it has been decided to give these children a little support. EUR 100 million per year has been allocated for this purpose, not to solve the whole problem of poverty immediately, although I would have liked to do so, but to at least help the children by, for example, arranging a school trip, some school supplies and perhaps clothes, so that the child can participate fully. That is of the utmost importance. We have given the municipalities the freedom to spend these funds well, because we all thought: this is above politics, above political parties; from left to right we want to help and support children in poverty. There are good examples. There are cities that have gone straight to work: Amsterdam, The Hague, Veendam, Heerenveen, Apeldoorn, Leeuwarden and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u3	It is indeed thanks to the PvdA that we are here today, not only because it has requested this debate during the course of its work, but also because the PvdA refused to accept these funds in the previous period with Secretary of State Klijnsma in order to combat child poverty. Indeed, it was a problem that was widely borne in the Chamber, but the Labour Party was opposed to the ear tags of those funds. What does Mr Van Dijk say with the moving insight of this moment about the PvdA's own role and responsibility in the previous period?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr Kuzu is right to make a point. 100 million has just been allocated directly to children. Apart from political decision-making, it has been said that we must help these children, give them a little support. Next, Secretary of State Klijnsma said: I am going to make agreements with the municipalities, with the VNG (Vereniging van Nederlandse Gemeenten). Klijnsma got the insurance from the VNG: we are going to spend these money well. And what does it turn out to be? There are aldermen in this country who dare to say straight in the camera: I do not spend the money on the children. I agree with Mr Kuzu; this was also apparent from the broadcast of Newsuur last year. That's impossible for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u5	That's not entirely true. The VNG doesn't give any guarantees. It is the responsibility of the municipalities. That was clear at the time. There have been enough motions from the Chamber, from the hands of DENK but also from the hands of the SP and of GroenLinks, who asked to hear those means. The Labour Party was against it at the time. That is just as correcting Mr Van Dijk's story. On the other hand, my question is: how can you expect child poverty to be combated if you cut a total of EUR 41 billion in the previous period and spend EUR 100 million to combat child poverty when you do not even recognise those resources?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u6	In the toughest years of crisis, the previous cabinet has chosen to protect the lowest incomes as much as possible. A clear choice has been made. This cabinet, Rutte III, makes a very different one. I think that Mr Kuzu and I can agree on that. This 100 million, despite the years of crisis, has been earmarked to really support these children. And as far as I'm concerned, the time of no commitment is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u7	At the beginning, I forgot to tell all Members of Parliament that I'm allowing two interruptions in two. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u8	There are municipalities that have been actively working on it. That's good, that's good, that's really good. But there are also municipalities that make very different choices. There are more, but I will mention a few: Rotterdam cuts 13 million on poverty policy, and the extra money for children in poverty is then spent on natural stone tiles for the renovation of the Coolsingel. In a city like Rotterdam, where there is great poverty, these kinds of choices are made at local level. I don't understand! In Gilze and Rijen the alderman says: I can't find these children at all; perhaps they don't exist at all. Almelo: the money goes to closing the budget. Barendrecht: a tonne to the general budget, perhaps to the street lanterns, but not to the children for whom it is intended. I think this is really crazy! And as far as I'm concerned, the time of no commitment is over. We are talking about the children, about the extra support they need so much. I therefore ask the Secretary of State what she can do to force the municipalities that are now making other choices to spend the money. What does she have in her power, what means does she have to make sure it works this year? For a child, it should not matter whether you live in Rotterdam or in Veendam. The child doesn't choose that, and those kids deserve the support in the back. Finally, Mr President. This 100 million is not enough to fight poverty, which is still thriving in the Netherlands despite the fact that it is going well. It's gonna take a lot more than that. This means that we need to do much more, and I call on the cabinet to do so. We must protect people and families, reduce the burden and raise incomes. This is also a real way to combat poverty in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u9	I very much agree with Mr Van Dijk that the money should go to the children. The towns you mentioned have a city council. How do you look at the position of these city councils? And what do you think they should do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u10	Thanks for the question. The city council should just take care of this one-on-one. Money has been allocated, 100 million. That was also discussed here in the Chamber, with the clear agreement that this money goes to the children, regardless of where the child lives. I find it incomprehensible that other choices are made locally. So I do not understand these municipal councils, and I do not understand why this is being made part of the political debate, while children in poverty should, as far as I am concerned, be above the political debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u11	Understand is one. That may be a consideration, but of course it is important that the money is given to the municipalities to find their own spending. Then it is up to the councils; your party sits in many municipalities. When you turn it over to the local authorities, you have to dare to let it go as a chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u12	No, not when it comes to this $100 million. Because it was clearly agreed in this Chamber that Secretary of State Klijnsma would make agreements with the municipalities on the use of the 100 million. She couldn't do that to every individual church; she did that to the VNG. That's on paper, too. The money was supposed to go to the kids. And what do we see? Some municipalities simply dare to say in the camera, in public: we make a different choice. This means, for the Labour Party, that the Secretary of State, Mr Delors, should also be called upon to take compelling measures. Because this money is not intended for political decision-making at local level. It's meant for the kids.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u13	Thank you. Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u14	Finally. With this we have not solved poverty in the Netherlands, but we can give those children that support in the back. And that's what it takes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u15	Thank you. Then I will go to Mrs Voortman on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u16	Thank you, Mr President. "Money for poor children disappears in debt mountain municipalities," headlined Nieuwsuur on 24 November. The study showed that municipalities spend this money on special assistance, on minimum incomes, and that in one case the money even went to the general funds. The latter, of course, cannot be the intention at all. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what she thinks of this and what she is going to do about it. It becomes more difficult when municipalities themselves have already allocated a great deal of money to combat child poverty, because it is a condition that the money must be spent on new activities. "Extra," then, not "instead." Mr. Chairman. It is, of course, a good thing that there are municipalities that are already doing a lot to combat child poverty. I can even imagine that a municipality that is already doing a lot in this area needs to think longer about what this budget can be spent on than a municipality that is still doing very little. But as long as children are still growing up in poverty in a community, as alderman, you should never sit down. Then there's always more to do than you already do. GroenLinks therefore expects municipalities to do their utmost to bring children out of poverty sustainably. Poverty during youth is a factor that can determine the future of a child. It affects the ability of a child to develop. Where a child with rich parents can have trouble with tutoring, poor parents have to accept more often that their child cannot get that tutoring and can therefore develop less well than that child with richer parents. It also works through in further education and ultimately in the work and salary that someone gets. It even works through the chances of good health, because the socio-economic status also determines to a large extent how old you get and how many years you live in good health. Poverty in your youth lasts a lifetime. That is why it is so important that we fight it very early. Poverty in your youth also increases the division at a later age. Mr. Chairman. On the other hand, we are now wondering whether the previous cabinet's approach was always so sensible. You can indeed think: if I spend the money this way and say that it can only be spent in kind, then it really ends up with the children. There's something to be said for that. But we also see that this is only partially true. Because children don't just need clothes and social activities. Children also need a warm home and food, things that benefit not only the children but also their parents. So we can imagine the recommendation of the children's ombudsman to invest in this too. She says: "Poverty policy now focuses on improving children's outdoor lives. To really help these children, there needs to be a coherent approach that focuses on the whole environment of children, starting with improving the uncertain and unstable home situation." The problem is, moreover, that by the way the budget is now spent, you are again calling bureaucracy over municipalities. Wouldn't it therefore make much more sense to restore the category assistance for families, where municipalities may choose to give families who have been on low incomes for two years, for example, a bonus without imposing all kinds of conditions? That saves bureaucracy and benefits families and therefore children. This Secretary of State often calls out: decentralisation is letting go. So what would be against granting this power to municipalities? You then send to the goal, which is less children in poverty, and release municipalities in how they do it. Does the Secretary of State want to discuss this with the municipalities? Another possibility would be that the money could also be spent in such a way that children in poor families, but possibly children in less poor families, could also benefit. That could be done by re-entering the school swimming system. This has been abolished in many municipalities and that has led to segregation. Children whose parents can afford swimming lessons often go on swimming lessons at the age of 5 and children from poorer families often go on swimming lessons much later or not at all. Children of low-income parents or of non-Dutch origin often do not obtain a diploma or only an A diploma. That is not only not good for their health, but also bad for their safety in this watery country. So shouldn't it be possible for children to just go back to swimming lessons together? And should this also be financed from these funds? I'd like a response. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u17	Thank you. I now turn to Mr De Lange on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Last Friday, I met a mother and a daughter in a women's shelter in Almere. It was obvious that they woke up from a violent time. Despite the misery, the daughter, and with her the mother, shone when she talked about her education. She wants to move on and join in to get the best out of her life. For the VVD, this is at the heart of today's debate: how do you really let children participate in building their own future, even if they grow up in a family with little money? In order to achieve this, municipalities and the government always have to ask themselves the critical question: are I really trying to combat child poverty? Last year the Klijnsmaalten were created, with 100 million specially intended for children who grow up in low-income families. There is 85 million in kind for the municipalities on the basis of agreements that have been made, so that it goes directly to the children between 0 and 18 years old and they can participate on the football field, on a school trip or when they are birthdays. In November, Nieuwsuur took a first sample of twenty municipalities, with the conclusion that money for poor children disappears in the debt mountain of municipalities. This raises the question of what goes wrong in implementing opportunities for all children. Municipalities have been given a wonderful tool to do something extra for children. They go about it and then you have to dare to let go as a chamber. However, this raises the question of how a child will participate again if the money goes to special assistance or government, or goes to a municipal project leader who makes a plan "to reach the target group," or if participation seems to only succeed if an alderman hands out smartphones. I also mention municipalities that do not participate because they use the money to close their own budgets. The VVD believes that the implementation of the Klijnsmageld (Klijnsmageld) should be reviewed, here, but above all in the municipal councils. Is the goal being achieved? Are the kids really gonna get back in on this? An initial mid-term evaluation was promised in the autumn. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State how the objectives will be achieved, both for the municipalities and for the organisations receiving subsidies. And when is it successful? On the basis of which pre-established criteria is this assessed? Is the Chamber included in this? How is it ensured that the various initiatives reinforce each other and do not get in the way? How much room is left for new initiatives? And are there any results from the initial talks with the VNG? This cabinet is currently developing an ambitious agenda for debt reduction and poverty reduction. The VVD therefore wants to use this mid-term evaluation as a time to come up with proposals for improvement where necessary. Are children actually involved or is there a need for adjustment? I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how she looks at this and what the follow-up is going to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u19	We already know that there are municipalities with a budget gap that say: hey, that's good, we have some extra money through the Klijnsmagels, which is meant for children in poverty; we put it in that hole. So the kids in these municipalities aren't getting anything. What does the VVD do? Is it freedom, happiness for the congregations? Or is the VVD willing to take an extra step from the Lower House?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u20	I think it should be about the discussion that is taking place. Then I put the question to the municipality: "What are you ultimately doing to actually do something about the fight against poverty among your children within your municipal policy?" This is happening in every municipality in the Netherlands. "What other types of approach do you have, so you make different choices?" I think we should be careful that we talk very much about the way in which the funds are spent by the municipalities. As providers of the money, as the Empire, I think we should above all keep the goal. I agree with Mr Van Dijk: at the end of the day we need to know whether the goal has been achieved, whether the children have improved and whether they are going to participate. Because that's what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u21	I'm getting a little confused. For example, when it comes to the language requirement to be carried out, the VVD is in the front with an obligation from The Hague. This language requirement must be taken into account in all municipalities. When it comes to money to combat child poverty, we'll find out later. Apparently that is less important and then it is mainly up to the municipality itself. I think the VVD should choose. Last year we all made an agreement: the money is specifically intended to spend in kind on children in poverty. There are already municipalities that say they don't, because they don't know or have children and because they have very different deficits, namely financial deficits. Which VVD should I believe? The VVD that says from above: appointment is appointment, even when it comes to the language requirement? Or is it freedom, happiness when it comes to children in poverty?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u22	What you have to assume is the story of kids getting back in the game. That's why I find the evaluation and the way you test so extremely relevant. Is the goal achieved that you reach the children so they can participate again? I am very curious about the explanation of the municipality that says that she organized it in a different way. It is therefore important to take a quick look at this evaluation and in the autumn to see if it might be necessary to adjust it somehow. It is incredibly important to be clear about this, but I think that as a Chamber we should be careful that we are immediately in a cramp and say that we are taking back the tasks, when we see in the execution that a municipality is doing a little bit different than the political thinking allowed by some parties. Because I can still make a consolation of how decentralisation is going, when I assumed that municipalities are closest to people and should really know how to help their children in such a situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u23	The interruptions must be short and the answers must be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u24	"Just a bit different" is of course something different than spending the money on very different things. Take the example of Rotterdam, where the money was spent on some renovation. You can't fight child poverty with that, can you? Does the VVD think you should say as a cabinet in such cases: ho, that is not in accordance with the agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u25	I think you should be critical of municipalities that spend the money in a different way. That's why I'm telling you to put the target first. I would very much like to hear from the municipalities how they managed to reach the children and get them back in.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u26	I find it interesting that the VVD says that the goal should be at the forefront and that we should not say exactly how the money should be spent. If there are now municipalities that say: "It is very difficult in the way that has now been agreed to get the money in the right place; could we also choose, for example, to provide the money through a benefit to families in the welfare services that have been on low incomes for two years; in this way, as a municipality, I think the best way to combat child poverty?" Is that okay? Then you really put the target first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u27	It's a possibility and a proposal, but I don't think it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u28	The selective shopping of the VVD is something to mark. Perhaps Mr De Lange should have a word with his colleague, Mr Nijkerken, who is at the top of his list, in order to call for the compensation to be carried out. That's what she wants to do nationwide, but this has to be decentralized. My question is: how does the VVD intend to combat child poverty? We find that there are 400,000 children living in poverty, sometimes even in families with working parents. If the group wishes to leave this measure to the municipal councils by far, how will the VVD combat poverty?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u29	First of all, it wasn't just the VVD that figured out that we're spending the Klijnsmageld in this way. I think the Chamber was very enthusiastic about that. Mr Van Dijk was right to admit that. How do you do that? That's what I'd come up with in my second block, but I'm gonna bring that up now. The government closest to people, namely the municipalities, has to make sure that they work from the idea of "one family, one plan, one approach." They must go around such a child and look at the overall problems of such a family around income, poverty, debt and health. That's what municipalities really have to make work. I think that is a very sustainable and structural solution, which ultimately helped such a child. That's what we invested in municipalities, whether you think it's wise or not. I think they are able to sit in the capillaries of society and look for good solutions there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u30	If the answer is always that we have left it to municipalities, we can actually shut the tent down here. Then from now on, we'll just have to be with these municipalities. I believe that poverty in the Netherlands is a matter of national policy. I think the social minimum in the Netherlands is clearly too low. This is also apparent from numerous investigations. The S.E.R. says so, too. Are you willing to acknowledge that? Are you prepared to acknowledge that the lowest wages and welfare benefits are actually too low to live on well, and that we therefore year in, year out in investigations that poverty does not decline?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u31	I'm always trying to figure out what a kid you want to get involved in is going to end up doing this. I think it's the kind of child that's most useful when you finally organize it in such a way that he or she can grow up in a family where there's enough income and money is made. That is why the VVD is always so committed to employment and people's participation. If that works, I think we're really gonna do the right thing, which is, in the end, the best thing to do is to help a child like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u32	These are quite a few common death-doers. Of course, working is the best cure for poverty. That is quite true, but we have been holding the debate on combating child poverty for years. That happens, the VVD has a position on that and that's up to her. But we've been having that debate for years now and the VVD has been using the argument for years that we need to give the municipalities the confidence. The majority of the municipalities are also doing well, but a number of municipalities simply do not. What concrete measures are you proposing to ensure that these municipalities also spend the money on poverty policies? And please don't come again with such a general death doer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u33	I do not want to argue here this afternoon that we should suddenly remove our poverty policy from municipalities. If that's what you're saying, it's okay, but it's all about us achieving the goal. That is why this debate is also very good to address the municipalities through the Chamber and to say: the goal must of course be achieved. The funds have been made available to ensure that they reach those children. I would very much like to hear from the municipalities why they are filling in this in a different way and how they want to achieve that effect in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u34	That's exactly where the problem lies, because it doesn't happen. In Rotterdam, the College believes that the policy on combating poverty in the city has gone through. Rotterdam performs a lot of beautiful lists, but it also provides the list of municipalities where child poverty is highest. What do you specifically say to the Rotterdam College? The VVD is not in there, so you can rest assured. What do you say to such a council? "Let it go" or "do something"? As the largest coalition party and as the largest party in the country, you can actually do something about it. Why don't you? Why don't you give it to those children in Rotterdam and other municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u35	You can actually do something about it by arranging the evaluation in a very good way, asking the right questions and putting that back to those municipalities. That's where we're gonna give the answers. My specific proposal is to put it in there. Mr. Chairman. The Children's Ombudsman's report rightly states that children in poverty are really helped when you look at everything that is going on in a family, such as work, income, debt and health. Municipalities have an important task here, right through the bulkheads and all points of contact: one family, one plan, one approach. How will the Secretary of State give this approach a place in poverty and debt policy and how will municipalities be helped to further shape and content it? Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. The VVD wants our children to be able to develop their talents; not special but quite common; just participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u36	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Raemakers, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u37	Thank you, Mr President. When the D66 group looks at poverty policy in the Netherlands and specifically at the issue of child poverty and the spending by the municipalities, it sees two paradoxes. The one paradox is that the Chamber has said that it wants to spend extra money on child poverty and that the Secretary of State has agreed with municipalities through a covenant. As a Second Chamber, we have not imposed a legal obligation on them to spend that jar on child poverty. In other words, we have not earmarked that money. You could say that we see that some municipalities don't spend that money well. I didn't mean to. How are we going to take a hard stand against that? The paradox is that at the same time, including in this Chamber, we are decentralisation of youth care and the Participation Act. There is also local policy in the case of poverty, i.e. municipalities have to decide for themselves and the city council has to take a very critical look at it. That is a first paradox that my group experiences. Then there's the second paradox. It has more to do with the nature of the matter: child poverty. That's what I call poverty as long as a child isn't even 18 years old. You can fix that very well for a while. You can give a child a subscription to a sports club, you can give a child extra money or guidance, so that he can attend education. You can provide a child with all kinds of facilities through the Clothes Bank or the Food Bank, so that this poverty is no longer temporary child poverty. The problem, however, is that these parents can experience poverty. That's a thrill. We are trying to overcome this in part in the coalition agreement by, for example, increasing family allowances and the child-related budget in the future. With that, we hope that we can sort that out a little bit. But another part of this paradox is that it has been proven that those children who are now in child poverty, where we temporarily take them out, are also more likely to grow up in poverty later. A piece of education for children is, of course, a long-term policy, and that is also very difficult. When I look at these two paradoxes, which are noted by my group, I am also thinking of two ways of solving them. The first direction of solution is what we do with the 85 million Klijnsma funds we spent last year on the municipalities. The Secretary of State has signed a covenant with the municipalities about this and said that we are going to share best practices more, together with the VNG. How's the Secretary of State gonna share those best practices? Can a list be made of ten municipalities that were child poverty proof last year? This does not mean that we have completely solved poverty there, but that children's policies were at least good enough. I wonder what kind of ideas the Secretary of State has to work that out. A second direction of solution concerns the new money that we have made available in the coalition agreement. That's a total of 80 million over three years. This year, it's the first 30 million. We could choose to divide that money in exactly the same way, but we already have those Klijnsmagels and they just keep going. Maybe we can do it differently now. There are also a number of organisations, under the umbrella of Chances for all children, which focus very specifically on a number of tasks. Could we perhaps give a larger share of the total new funds to those organisations, which also have expertise in this area? Could we also take the educational element with those organisations or with other organisations? I am not thinking of an obligation towards municipalities either, but of asking them to submit a plan or at least demonstrate that they have child poverty and that they are going to do something about it before they get the extra money that comes on top of it. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to hear what the Secretary of State thinks about that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u38	Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u39	Thank you. I am listening to this speech by Mr Raemakers of D66. He's actually saying two things. It almost seems like a paradox. On the one hand, the Klijnsmaalten. That is the way we have agreed, we have made a covenant with strict agreements, and in the end a number of municipalities are not doing what we had agreed in this Chamber. On the other hand, he proposes a fund for the new funds, so that the money goes directly to the children. Can we not make the agreement that we should also include the Klijnsmaals?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u40	I am glad that Mr Van Dijk points out exactly my paradox. That's exactly the tension. There is something to say for stricter rules and there is something to be said for getting it right from the municipalities. So you could argue not to tag a part of it, and part of it would. I think that's a creative option. I'm sure I'm open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u41	That wasn't what I suggested. Mr Raemakers says there is extra money. That's really good. This has been made available by the new cabinet for child poverty. But there is already EUR 100 million available. Now it turns out that some municipalities say publicly, even on camera, that they don't spend it on the children, but do it in the financial holes of the budget or I don't know what. That's not in line with the terms. Is Mr Raemakers prepared to take a very critical look at this and, if municipalities really continue to refuse, to take a number of steps from the Chamber so that we can force them to do more?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u42	Yes. The answer is yes. I'm willing to do that. Of course, we have a covenant now. That's a very separate private-law figure. I find it difficult to change that immediately after one year. I see there are a number of things in the covenant. One of these is the exchange of best practices, good examples. I'd rather bet on that before knocking over the whole system of Klijnsma funds. Especially for the future, if we have received an extensive evaluation which we are going to receive once, that is certainly an interesting direction of thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u43	Would it be an interesting way of thinking to take a good look at the recommendation of the children's ombudsman? She says that we are now focusing unilaterally on the situation of children outside the home, while there is also much to do inside. In her view, it would be a good idea to adopt a coherent approach, mainly aimed at improving the situation of children indoors.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u44	Agreed. I also checked the website of GroenLinks in advance. I don't do that very often, but I've done it now. GroenLinks' proposal is to increase the child-related budget, the child benefit, in my opinion, because then you can fight poverty in the home. You give the parents extra money to take care of those kids. If I may take Mrs Voortman's question in this way, we are doing so now with the coalition agreement, and that certainly has our support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u45	You can take it that way, but that was for the recommendations of the children's ombudsman's wife. I find the focus on this coherent approach so interesting. I think it is very logical that we should not decide now what we are going to do with the money, but that we should explicitly take the recommendation of the child ombudsman. She says, for example, that children not only need school trips and music lessons, but also very important things like a warm home and food. That's where it goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u46	I think this is a good idea. I think it all sounds really good. The D66 group always considers the suggestions of the children's ombudsman to be very important. We certainly want to think about this in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u47	Two things get a little confused in the discussion. You have the poverty policy. That's what money is made available for. Last time, when Klijnsma came up with a plan, extra money was released. This was on top of the poverty policy that was already in place in municipalities. A covenant has been concluded for this purpose and it has been indicated that the goal is to get a little extra to the children. Now we see that this does not always happen. So agreements have been made, but they do not stick to them. What is wrong with us saying here in the Chamber: okay, now that we have seen this and we have a common goal with the municipalities, do we really choose to secure the funds that are still available from the Klijnsmaalten as being earmarked? That is actually the plan that Mr Raemakers had with his own money, but with the link. What's the problem with not doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u48	We're going to see what good examples are for both means: hard intervention or soft intervention. As I have indicated, you have advantages and disadvantages in both ways. That's always the case. So I also want to be careful that we are saying too soon, after a year, for example, that things are not going well in a few places. We also have a covenant that states what needs to be done in terms of evaluation and what needs to be done in terms of information sharing. So about the money we've already spent, I'd say choose that route. But if we have completely new money, and we do so in the coalition agreement, then perhaps we can do it differently at the start. So one doesn't rule out the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u49	Because the money that's already been spent has already been spent. I would prefer that the municipalities simply return that money somehow or spend it somehow for what it was intended for and what was in the covenant. But I am also talking about the money that is still to be spent, because in some cases it is not going well. Twenty municipalities already account for EUR 5 million; that is a lot of money. Could we now agree that the money left over from these Klijnsmaals is simply earmarked as money to be spent as a bonus on poverty reduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u50	I get the question from the PVV. We do not choose to do so at the moment. We have also asked the Secretary of State how exactly she will implement the agreements in the covenant. I understand the question, but we're making a different choice now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u51	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Peters on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Money intended for poor children does not always end up with them. This concludes Newsuur on the basis of a tour of twenty municipalities. That is why this debate was rightly requested. Municipalities would pass the money in kind, for example by paying swimming lessons or by giving a bike or football shoes, but it turns out that it is also used to close budget gaps or to cover implementation costs. And that can, as has been said many times, not be the intention. I can still hear former Secretary of State Klijnsma say: the money is for children and if it does not reach them, I will call the responsible alderman personally. It seems that Mrs Klijnsma would have had to make quite a few calls if she had been in service. And that's not surprising. Municipalities have always had money to fight poverty. Most municipalities do their best, but not all people living in poverty report to the local office. And not all people are found by churches. It is therefore not surprising that not all municipalities could use all the money earmarked for poverty reduction. Often some things remained on the shelf. In order to combat child poverty, Klijnsma released additional funds and gave them to municipalities. That was social, but because municipalities already pursued poverty policies and did not always find all those people, that way might not have been so convenient. 'Cause then what's gonna happen to the money? An extra grant to the food bank? It could be good. Some more money to Stichting Leergeld, debt help buddy? Or do we give it directly to education? That's what school trips can be bought for. Are we just gonna hire an official who's gonna coordinate everything? That's what I heard. Or do we give 1,000 random children a free mobile phone like the city of The Hague? After all, you have to do something. Yes, you hear it right: The Hague provided 1,000 smartphones to 1,000 bridge-graders. But The Hague has many and many more children living in relative poverty and so most children have nothing. And that's a big problem everywhere. Municipalities reach far too few children who need support. This is because, for example, parents are ashamed of themselves or because we have made everything so incredibly complicated. I think it would be better to do something about that than to do about symbolic politics. Money must be spent on dealing with real problems, not 1,000 mobiles. Kids aren't supposed to grow up in poverty. There is no misunderstanding about this, but it is very doubtful whether the extra money will actually contribute to solving the problem of poverty in this way, if it is used for the purpose for which it has been provided. This scheme shall be reviewed in the third quarter of 2018. It's newstime. It's a first move. I'm curious to hear the Secretary of State's response. Will she also call aldermen who do not spend the money on poverty policy? Mr. Chairman. A lot of kids aren't found. So municipalities are left with money for vulnerable children. Of course they can't do that and so they come up with something that costs a lot of money and doesn't take too much effort, but it does produce a nice PR image: a phone as a gift from the municipality for example. I suspect that a motion will be tabled today, at least I thought that perhaps it will still come in order to oblige municipalities to raise the money or sell it to the Empire. But that is precisely why I find that really unwise. Municipalities then come up with the idea of doing something with it to make the money. My appeal would therefore be to give municipalities the space to spend the money on those children in poverty, in any way. I once wrote a manual for CDA aldermen with poverty in their portfolio. I like to send them around on request, so that people can have good ideas about it. It is clear to me: that money has to go to the children; that can be done in a lot of ways, but at least not by establishing here how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u53	Can Mr Peters explain that? So what does he want to change about the current arrangement? At present it must be paid in kind. I understand from what Mr Peters said that he does not think it is such a good idea to spend it on mobile phones, as The Hague does. So I assume he'll come up with an alternative. Should it then be transferred through a financial contribution to these families?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u54	It is clear to me: that money is meant for children, so that's where it has to go. There are municipalities that can find these children; they have a very good policy for that; well solved. By the way, there are also municipalities that say: I am not doing it. I like that. As far as I'm concerned, the phone will be picked up and called. "Yes, hello, Alderman, what are you doing? We've agreed that that money goes to children and you spend it on curbs. I don't agree." You just gave the example of the curbs yourself. But there are also municipalities that these children can't find in this way. Then let's be creative. As far as I am concerned, there can be a bit more to the food bank, the clothing bank, the SchuldHelpMaatje foundation or all kinds of other social initiatives that can ensure that the money ends up with those children. I am thinking in this direction, but I await the response of the Secretary of State and, if necessary, the evaluation that will take place in the third quarter of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u55	Well, I think we can honestly assume that's going to be the answer. The Secretary of State has already said that she wants to see the evaluation first, so the question is a bit the same as this morning's: can we do business today? We already know that the money is not in the right place. Can we make sure the money gets in the right place today? Wouldn't it be nice if we made a nice proposal today? You yourself said some sensible things about it. Or are you going to wait again so nothing happens today?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u56	In any case, I am not going to support a motion that says that the money should be earmarked, because then municipalities will do exactly what I do not want. What am I gonna do? If you call for this money to go to children and for us to make a little more room for it, I believe that 73 recommendations have ever been written; that is what we can draw directly from, as far as I am concerned, but I leave that to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u57	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. About 400,000 children live in poverty in the Netherlands. So there's work to be done. And yet there are municipalities that spend money to fight poverty on other things, for example to close a gap in the budget. The municipalities of Barendrecht, Founding Vecht and Staphorst spend the money to fight poverty on other matters. Does the Secretary of State have a complete overview of all the municipalities to which this applies? Is she going to call the communities concerned to order? Is she going to recover the money? If so, will it then spend the money it has recovered on combating child poverty? Then, I think, we are all satisfied, because I heard quite Chamberwide that money for poverty reduction should go to that goal and not to other things. So it would be nice if we could arrange that. Mr. Chairman. A solution to the problem is to label the budget. It's been a while. Then you're sure the money won't leak to other cases. Does the Secretary of State consider that solution? Poverty money must now be spent in kind, such as on a sports subscription, a computer or music lessons. However, sometimes it may be that the money is badly needed, but not for that sort of thing. Mr Peters implied that just now. Then why can it not be spent on these matters, for example in the form of a financial contribution? Give aldermen the opportunity to offer customization. Now the scheme is based on distrust and patronisation. What's more liberal about that? Mr. Chairman. I would just like to ask whether the Secretary of State agrees with me that a parental contribution in education should always be voluntary and should never be used to pay for educational matters and that we should not use poverty money from the municipality for this. No, schools should simply be funded and pay for their primary education process. This should not be done through parents or child poverty funds as far as I am concerned. Mr. Chairman. Is the Secretary of State prepared to make it possible for municipalities to provide categorical special assistance, for example to families, poor families, with many children? Research carried out by the Nibud on behalf of the municipality of Utrecht shows that these families are often unable to make ends meet. The same applies to families with high care costs. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate nationally which families are financially in trouble? Then we know exactly what we're talking about. So we know about the municipality of Utrecht. I'd like to hear her response to that investigation. I'd really like to know nationally. And what solutions are there? Mr. Chairman. Finally, as far as we are concerned, the real cause of child poverty is clear. The social minimum in the Netherlands is too low. That's the main cause. That's what the Nibud investigation shows. This shows that a family with two older children lacks €322 per month. That's just been investigated. That's not my grade, but that's an investigation. Then we know exactly what we're talking about. Without national measures, the patches stick. We therefore call for a substantial increase in the social minimum. After all, turning off the tap is better than mopping.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u59	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u60	Mr. Chairman. "Sinterklaas skipped this boy." That was the title of an article in the NRC last December. In it, an 8-year-old boy tells how he deals with the poverty in which he lives. The day before Santa Claus night he had asked the teacher at school to skip him the next day at school if the children in the circle would all tell what they had received. It is a painful example of the feeling of exclusion that causes poverty. For a growing child, of course, that's really horrible. Last year, 100 million extra was made available to municipalities to combat child poverty. In some municipalities, this money was used to cover deficits in poverty policy and so the money did not end up with children. In other, somewhat richer municipalities, poverty policy already works well and there are sufficient resources and so the money ended up in the general pot. The Secretary of State has promised to come forward with an evaluation in the autumn. But can the Secretary of State say something about whether these signals are correct and why the money is not being spent? The Christian Union wants to use the debate today to give some valuable suggestions to the Secretary of State for a better functioning child poverty policy. Mr. Chairman. The responsibility for poverty policy lies with the municipalities. That's good, because the local government knows best what's needed locally. This also means that it is a bit different in every municipality. The national trend is that in recent years we have heard that much in kind is being awarded, i.e. earmarked for specific expenses, so that the aid actually reaches the children. The downside is the lack of freedom of choice and suboptimal spending. If you get a credit of €100 for sports shoes, you buy sports shoes of €100. But what if you already have sneakers or you can take over your big brother's because he's grown out of it? Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union advocates three simple tools for improving child poverty policies at municipal level: more flexibility, more self-direction and more communication. I'll get to more flex first, less bulkheads. Almost everywhere you have specific arrangements and passes. Every time the government makes extra money available, it leads to a larger Christmas tree with even more arrangements. The Christian Union calls for fewer bulkheads and more flexibility. It's nice to have a senior certificate for the pedicure, but what if you have good feet? Then I'm sure you could use the same credit in a different way. What if you didn't use it for school supplies last year, but this year you want to do oldest vmbo technology. If only you could use that money for school supplies for those materials. But the credit was only valid last year. The Christian Union wants arrangements and passes to be used more flexibly, both in terms of destination and time. My second point is more self-direction. It is very nice that you can buy a new bike for your child with your pass, very nice of course, but a new bike will be demolished in the school bicycle booth within two weeks. You'd rather buy a second-hand bike that gets you fixed up at Uncle Koos. But, yeah, you can only redeem that ticket at that one bike store. The number and type of shops were people, could be greatly expanded. The Christian Union wants this offer to include recycling shops, repair shops and social entrepreneurs focusing on labour integration and learning pathways. That's how the knife cuts both ways. Is the Secretary of State prepared to encourage municipalities to do so and to examine whether rules might stand in the way of making this possible? The third and final point is better communication. Because of all these increases and regulations, people in poverty often no longer see the forest through the trees. And sometimes aid workers don't either. When more freedom is needed in spending, guidance is also needed to help make the right choices, but also to ensure that people do not have to pay back. Are the counseling and communication from the municipalities sufficiently in order and in balance, I ask the Secretary of State. And by "balance," I mean both on the soft side and on the hard side. I would like an appreciation of the Secretary of State, and all this, of course, in the context of the fact that we know that the primacy of poverty policy lies with the municipalities. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u61	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Today we have a debate on a structural amount of EUR 100 million per year, which is intended to combat child poverty, but also partly disappears into the general budget. I mention municipalities such as Rotterdam, Stichtse Vecht, Barendrecht, Staphorst, Voorschoten, Almelo and Gilze and Rijen. This is also called the "Klijnsmagelden," but it is also important to define what the Klijnsmagelden are. These so-called Klijnsmaalten were a flashy attempt by the PvdA to save something from its paled social face. 15 billion euros, the biggest austerity operation ever in the Netherlands, and then give back 100 million euros. This pacifier was a drop on a glowing plate. The voter did not fall for that, of course, and the crocodile tears of the PvdA after the elections, of which I say to the voter: #trapernot in. Mr. Chairman. There are 400,000 children living in poverty in the Netherlands. That is about one in nine children, and that is a disgrace to a rich country like the Netherlands. Children sometimes go to school without breakfast and children go outside in the cold on summer shoes with holes. Child poverty is a major social problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u63	Mr Kuzu, you challenge the PvdA. So Mr Gijs van Dijk will have the opportunity to say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hear: #trapernotin. Well, #do not fall into this story of DENK I would say. In the toughest financial crisis, the previous cabinet has made a lot of cuts, but it has made sure that people on low incomes are saved as much as possible. That is why it has been decided during the worst years of crisis to help children in poverty, and not to combat the whole problem of poverty in the Netherlands. We'd be happy to. It was then decided to at least take a first step and help those children. I'd like to invite you to look at the next cabinet. We are now doing well again, thanks to the Labour Party, and now it is time to make real progress in the fight against poverty and to ensure that people with the lowest incomes get a higher income and less permanent burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u65	Please, Mr. Chairman! "Please," I say. Of course, this story doesn't add up at all. We could have avoided this debate today if the PvdA had participated in the numerous proposals made here in the Chamber during the previous term of office. I still have motions from the SP, from GroenLinks, from us. The PvdA always voted against those proposals. Yeah, we're having a debate today. I'm glad the PvdA made that turn, but it just doesn't make sense what you're saying. You could have prevented this, your party could have arranged it in the previous period, and that did not happen. And that is why we are having a debate here today and a lot of children in the municipalities I have just listed are at the expense of the PvdA's policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u66	It's about those kids. I have just said in my speech: let us not tempt ourselves to a low political debate, but let us keep those children in mind and let us talk about it together. 100 million has been committed. It appears that some municipalities do not do this. Those are the municipalities we need to deal with. I think we'll find each other at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u67	I'm sure we'll find each other in that. We are absolutely in favour of combating child poverty. But I would like to say again that I shall continue to do so, as the Labour Party, on the responsibility it has not only now, but also in the previous period. We've got the fried pears now. We are having a debate on this with each other. And of course, that's not nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u68	Mr Kuzu blames the previous cabinet for everything. He blames the previous cabinet for having an inadequate social face. But if I am not mistaken, was Mr Kuzu simply part of the PvdA Group? In the previous coalition agreement, Mr Kuzu clearly did not raise any problems. It wasn't until something came up with integration and Mr. Asscher, that you quit the party. How does Mr Kuzu reflect on his own role?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u69	Mr Raemakers was not in the Chamber at the time. So he didn't see what was going on when we were in the PvdA Group. I'll tell you an anecdote. I was in the PvdA Group. The chairman was there at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u70	Yeah, I know, but I'm afraid I'm not allowed to say anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u71	What do you say, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u72	I'm afraid I'm not allowed to say anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u73	We had tabled a motion together with Mrs Karabulut of the SP to identify those means. At the time, I was forced by the leader of the political group to hold that motion, with a commitment that Diederik Samsom would personally commit himself to doing so. Next, the previous Secretary of State made an extensive statement on that subject. But what do we see now? Apparently, it took us five years to find that problem with each other. I would also like to remind you that D66 has always voted very consistently against the motions calling for the means to be indicated. That makes you part of the cause of the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u74	It is good that we have at least heard some news today that adds something to the discussion. I would like to return to the subject of child poverty. We have now said in this coalition agreement that there will be additional resources to combat it. In my opinion, the previous coalition agreement was completed only afterwards. But what would your proposal be when it comes to budgets? This coalition agreement therefore does a great deal: extra money for combating child poverty, but also for child support and the child-related budget. Let's take a look at those three cash flows. What do you think of those three?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u75	I have two minutes and 45 seconds left. I'd also like to compliment you on it. There are some nice things in the coalition agreement. What I do want to warn you about, however, is that it should not be left alone with a paper tiger. I would also like to appeal to D66. It must also be done. I would like to point out, for example, the attitude of this Secretary of State in the last two debates we have had on this issue. During oral Question Time and in an earlier debate on this subject, constant reference was made to an evaluation which still needs to be carried out. Then I think to myself: how many more evaluations do we need? How many more studies do we need to convince the VVD in particular of the fact that this is a major problem in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u76	I see Mr Gijs van Dijk standing. He was challenged by you again. I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk, but I would also like to appeal to you, Mr Kuzu, to move forward with your own story and not challenge others. Otherwise, I give them the floor every time, and that is not exactly the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u77	With his input, Mr Kuzu made a kind of evaluation of his time with the Labour Party. Mr Raemakers rightly pointed out that he had signed the coalition agreement as part of the Labour Party. There are all kinds of people who have fought hard with Mr Kuzu to get the Netherlands back on its feet, and now this! This isn't #trapernotin. This is #trapna.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u78	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u79	Mr President, it is important to respond to this. At the time, I did indeed support the coalition agreement, and not only that part, but also in the broadest sense, because it said that money would be allocated to combating child poverty. Apparently, the PvdA Group took six years to find that the money does not end up there. So I think it's crocodile tears.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u80	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u81	So a big social problem, child poverty. Child poverty means social exclusion and disadvantage, and DENK wants an inclusive society and equal opportunities. We want, as the Cabinet proposes, to increase family allowances and to give children from poor families additional financial opportunities. In this way, social exclusion and backwardness can be combated. This debate is about the Klijnsmaalten. Mr President, we received a letter from the Secretary of State on 19 December, which is really nothing more than a procedural description of the reports and evaluations we are about to receive. It shows no sense of urgency, and that is in stark contrast to a number of decisive points in the coalition agreement. But we have nothing to do with action on paper if the practice is poachy and not energetic. I want more action than just this scrawny procedural letter. Of course, we should not wait for an evaluation in autumn 2018 but work on concrete steps today. Mr. Chairman. In the last five years, numerous motions have been tabled, for example to identify the means and put the money in the right place. Still, this isn't settled. That is why the following question to the Secretary of State: what can you do in the short term to get the 100 million Klijnsmageld to the poor children? Two. How can you ensure that the Klijnsmaalten are effectively earmarked for this purpose? Can you make it a target benefit? Three. Is it true that some municipalities with a right-wing college of mayor and aldermen, for example Rotterdam, have allowed these poverty funds to flow into the general budget and that there are quite different things to do with it, such as refurbishing the Coolsingel or the general youth policy? Do you share the view that this is wrong and that this should be countered? How can you handle this? Mr. Chairman. One would almost say that, among other things, the College of Rotterdam, but also all those other municipalities that do not work to combat child poverty and do not use these resources to combat child poverty, are guilty of gross job neglect, as in another particular municipality in our Kingdom. Fortunately, there are short-term elections and the electorate can deal with them. Mr. Chairman. Is it also true that some aldermen dare to say with dry eyes that they cannot find poor children or claim that there is no poverty in their congregation? How does this relate to the 400,000 children who grow up in poverty? Please have a reflection of the Secretary of State on how these aldermen deal with their responsibility. Mr. Chairman. One final point. It's about how this Secretary of State wants to go down in history. Does she want to go down in history as the Liberal Minister Van Houten, who abolished child labour in 1874? I am asking, because the child poverty of the twenty-first century is perhaps as bad as the child labour of the nineteenth century. Or is it going to be another four years of standstill and muddying? Can the children, the poor children, count on this Secretary of State? That's my last question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u82	Thank you. I now turn to Mr De Jong as the last speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u83	Mr President, thank you very much. This is a bit of a crazy debate, isn't it? Why is it a crazy debate? The moment you make agreements with municipalities to make a little extra for children living in poverty, you just assume that that money goes to what it's meant for. So we have a debate now, because some municipalities think that they should spend the money mainly on things for which it is not intended. That's just crazy. And, Mr President, it shouldn't be. It should be the case that municipalities just stick to it when we all agree here that a certain budget is meant for something. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore about exactly how many municipalities are involved. The question of Nieuwsuur involved, I believe, twenty municipalities and it turned out that about 5 million did not end up there with the purpose for which it was intended. How much is that nationwide? Are there any figures on that? Can the Secretary of State say anything about it? So what have these resources been spent on? How many municipalities have put it in general resources? I'd like to know. What also bothers me about this whole debate is how people sometimes talk about children living in lower-income families. You often hear that there is then spoken I heard the VVD also do about "that child, we must try to achieve that." Such a distance. It is often talked about as if it is very defenseless or something very pathetic or whatever if it lives in a family with a lower income. I can tell you myself that is not something that is certain. You also often find in families that a couple is working their asses off every day to make ends meet, that they do their best to make something of it for their families. They are not the first to go to the municipality for additional resources, but try, within their own budget, to make it difficult for them to be made by policies from here or from the municipality itself to arrange it within their own family. That could mean that if a kid goes to soccer, he's gonna wear his little brother's uniform. Or that if they wanted a cell phone, they'd get it from their sister or someone else in the family. I have said before in a debate that was in an AO with Klijnsma, our former Secretary of State on this subject, that it looks like a child no longer counts when it is in a family that a child cannot always put on football and on music lessons, for example, but has to make a choice. That it wouldn't be a chance. Mr President, I would like to distance myself from that. Because that's not the case. Of course, there are children who are having a hard time and, of course, this may lead to choices in a particular direction that influence where someone ends up, but it is not certain that it will cloud your future if you live in a low-income family or if you can no longer create opportunities. I believe, in fact, that a child can get very far if a family ensures that it gives that child the love and the confidence to make something of it and gives that child support in it. So it doesn't have to be that this can only happen when Klijnsma or others start scattering with EUR 100 million. It could be done in another way, and so I have a great deal of faith in our families in the country. I am confident that they are generally in the best interests of their children and that there are therefore many opportunities for children in lower-income families.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u84	A very nice speech by Mr De Jong, but imagine that these children are now called Mohammed and Ali and that the parents are not very long in the Netherlands. Suppose these parents have trouble with the Dutch language and do not meet the language requirement. Then I read that the PVV wants the welfare allowance of such a family to be reduced or severely reduced. That means, of course, for the children in such a family that it gets much worse. Does this also mean that the PVV is now nuancing its previous proposals for taking benefits from newcomers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u85	Definitely not. Certainly not, because at the moment you are a newcomer and would like to make something of it in the Netherlands, you will be the first to learn the language, for example to get a job and make the future great for your children. If you fail to do that yourself, then I also think you should take responsibility for it yourself in order to organise your life in a different way. You always have to decorate it in such a way that your children could build a good future. So I don't see that... I am making an argument here in which I say that I think it is nonsense that in debates of this kind the image is formed that you are without a chance if you live in a family with a lower income. I think that's bullshit. It's not like that. Well, sometimes it can be harder for families like that. That is why I do not understand, for example, that there is now a cabinet that is going to increase VAT for, for example, messages. If it's about families that are struggling, you shouldn't make it even harder for them to raise VAT.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u86	Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u87	That is my point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u88	Yeah, clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u89	Mr De Jong is absolutely right that newcomers, who are adults, have their own obligations and responsibilities, but of course these children cannot help it. So what is Mr De Jong going to do for the children of newcomers, in which his party says: these benefits should be cut considerably? Perhaps that is sometimes right for the adults, sometimes, but for those children that is of course very annoying. So what's Mr. De Jong going to do for those kids?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u90	I say to these children, above all, that they should not do what their parents have done, namely not learn the language. I say to these children that they live in a country where, if they want to, they have opportunities and they have to use them to become a full Dutchman. If these parents choose to put their own children at a disadvantage, you shouldn't pretend that's because of the PVV. Well, that's mainly up to the parents themselves. So I would especially like to say to those children: dear children, if you live in such a family and you see that your parents do that, do not do that, make sure you become a good Dutchman and if you don't want to, just go on living in another place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u91	I listened carefully to Mr De Jong's speech. May I summarize his speech by saying here today that your origins and origins do not have to be decisive for your future and can participate in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u92	What I am saying here in particular is that the speech that the VVD has just made here, namely to talk about "that" child with a distance from here to Tokyo, has irritated me. And why? I grew up in Gouda myself, in a working family. I never like it when politicians start with their own story, but I can tell you one thing: in our family, there was no secretary of state who came by to share for a while a child for example €250 to make it possible that I didn't have to be in the field with broken football shoes, taped, or that I knew for example where Ed de Goeij lived, that keeper of Feyenoord, didn't have to call his door to ask if he might have a pair of gloves so I could be in the target on Saturday. I'm not gonna keep that kind of story here, because I'm a people's representative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u93	Still, I find it interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u94	It's an interesting story, because it also indicates that if you come from a family with a lower income, you don't have a chance. We're not talking about "that" kid here. We are talking here about people, about families and about children who may be a little more difficult at first, but that does not mean that they have a clouded future. What I would like to point out is that when we look at the policy of the cabinet, of the previous and of the present, we see that if funds are already being released, they often do not end up where they are intended. That's a shame, because that money comes from somewhere. That comes from involuntary tax release, tax payment. I say to the people who work hard to cough up that tax, that we must ensure that that money is spent on what it is meant for. That is why I wanted to make that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u95	It is nice that Mr De Jong gives some personal coloring in response to this question. That is always beautiful and that is why I started in my speech with the child I looked into the eyes of last Friday at that women's shelter in Almere and that for me the leitmotiv is that I really want them to be able to participate. Then every child is relevant to me, and that's what it has to be about. Apparently you also find that where you come from and what your origins are does not matter to be successful in the Netherlands, Mr. De Jong. That would be a profit, if that's what you think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u96	What argument would the PVV have ever made that the background of a child is decisive for us as to whether or not someone can participate in society? That's total bullshit. What we are saying is that these EUR 100 million from the cabinet are not necessarily going to ensure that everyone is involved, that you can also seize opportunities. This is extremely important for the PVV. So we see time and again that if extra money is spent, it does not end up where it should end up. So if all of us here really care that it does, then we must be critical of the policy of the present cabinet and how it is going to organise it differently in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u97	I think you were done. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u98	I've got 30 seconds of chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u99	Finish your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u100	In fact, I was done, except that I wanted to say that if we in this Chamber are just doing that you can only participate if EUR 100 million is spent, it does not do justice to all those middle-class families who, after all these cuts in recent years, have the best for their families and have to make choices within their own families. Those people don't deserve that. I sincerely hope that these families are doing well, but I am not convinced that this can only be done with the 100 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u101	Thank you. This was the first term of the Chamber. Do you need ten minutes, Secretary of State? Then I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u102	I'll give the Minister the floor. Oh, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u103	I didn't respond either!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u104	You never know...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u105	Mr. Chairman. The fact that children grow up in poverty in the Netherlands keeps you, me and many other people busy and rightly so. Poverty, and certainly poverty among children, is poignant. I believe that all children should be able to develop freely, without obstacles, with plenty of opportunities. Children should be able to participate in every way. I'm sure that's what local authorities think. It is, of course, the responsibility of all of us to offer our children a somewhat carefree childhood, so that they can later become independent adults and use their ambitions, dreams and talents. Municipalities know their children, parents and caretakers like no other, even better than you and I. That's why they're in charge and we're helping where we can. In order to combat child poverty, comprehensive local policies are needed and tailor-made measures must be put in place: doing what is needed locally and close to the child. The way in which we finance poverty among children gives municipalities a lot of space and freedom to implement what is needed at local level. As far as I am concerned, we should keep it that way. The government supports the municipalities in their active and involved role, on the one hand by means, with money, on the other hand by removing thresholds and sharing good examples, knowledge and experience in the country. I'm not gonna put congregations on the same page. The practice is diverse. At present, there is no reason to conclude that our municipalities are not spending massively the extra money to combat child poverty for which it is intended. Some municipalities have used the extra poverty money to help children in kind, as agreed administratively. Other municipalities have their own policies and adhere to them, for the same purpose and with the same child on the retina. But we have made agreements with the municipalities. We have also agreed to monitor and evaluate this together. The first evaluation, which starts as we speak, will be completed in the autumn. On the basis of that evaluation, I think it would be good to sit down and see if the agreements need to be changed. I want to get back to work, because every child deserves a chance. Mr. Chairman. I would like to look at aspects relating to the 100 million, in this case the 85 million transferred to municipalities, and then look at the state of affairs surrounding the funds in the coalition agreement. If I look at the 85 million which has been referred to a great deal today and which dates back to the previous period, it might be good to see where we stand. 100 million extra a year on top of existing poverty reduction funds, including 85 million directly to municipalities, 10 million to a number of large funds, also to lay down a piece of infrastructure for the future, and 5 million for projects and a piece of it also for the Caribbean part of the Netherlands. We have agreed on the use of these funds. We also agreed that it is primarily the city council's turn to check. Control of the use of these funds lies in the local groups. At the moment, the evaluation is being carried out and it has been agreed on what criteria are being asked, including the number of children reached, whether the resources are adequate and whether there are bottlenecks facing municipalities. The evaluation will then be carried out and will be completed in the autumn. As far as I am concerned, therefore, we are having a debate on this, a debate in this Chamber. That may also be broader for me than just the 85 million. The role of the funds should certainly be taken into account, and we can certainly look at what we are giving and what we are laying down on infrastructure. Your Chamber has also made a number of suggestions for this. For example, questions have been asked from the GroenLinks and SP groups about the category special assistance. Shouldn't it be re-entered? I would like to say that special stock, certainly categorically, cannot be provided in a targeted way, so that, as far as I am concerned, is not a solution to the tailor-made approach we are looking for with the means of combating poverty. The SP indicates that the Nibud has carried out research in Utrecht and asks me how I feel about that. I think it is very good, and I see that in more places too, municipalities are carrying out research because they want to know where funds are most needed. Questions have also been asked about other reports. We receive many valuable views and reports on poverty and poverty reduction, including from the Children's Ombudsman. GroenLinks asks me to address the family situation rather than just child poverty. I think that this issue deserves attention. I indicated earlier that I would come in March with a response to the SER report and the report of the Kinderombudsman. In the direction of the VVD I indicate that I want to take the situation around 1Family1Plan, with one approach. GroenLinks specifically asked about school swimming. There is certainly room for municipalities to get to work on this, but I should like to warn you that these instruments will also end up with the children who need them. Mr Bruins of the Christian Union has asked a question about the flexible use of funds. In addition, it is possible that municipalities provide customised services and also apply to this: be careful that it does get to the right place. But municipalities that want this can actually use customization. All in all, we could say that we certainly take up Mr Jasper van Dijk's suggestion of sharing best practices. In collaboration with the Ministry, Divosa has made a hand-out, which has been given to municipalities, just to show what can be done, what works. In this context, Mr Jasper van Dijk also asked whether guidance, communication and enforcement were in balance. You need to be able to find people, and you need to know that it ends up in the right place. Divosa's handshake has also fallen into good shape in this respect; I would like to refer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u106	The Secretary of State starts off very nicely: child poverty is not really possible, and is a bad thing that we have to fight. I totally agree with that. Then there will be a long argument which means that municipalities will have to take care of it. But we're not here in a municipality, we're here in the Lower House. So the question is, what is the role of the Secretary of State? Today we are talking about money from the Empire, which is clearly not spent on child poverty. Then it would be nice to hear from the Secretary of State today what she will do when a municipality says: we do not spend that money on the purpose for which it was intended. What are you going to do with such a congregation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u107	Mr. Chairman. The dilemma is as follows. From the Empire we consider this subject important. From the Empire we make funding available for it, but it is carried out in municipalities, where a lot of money flows come together. That reminds me a bit of a sigh we hear in this house: what do they all get involved in in Brussels? I think some town halls also say: gosh, why are they talking about that in The Hague? Anyway, we're talking about it here, because the money flows from the Empire to municipalities. But I do think it's important that we have each other's roles in focus and distinction. If administrative agreements are violated flagrantly, because this money, in Mr Van Dijk's words, is 'evidently not spent', then that is, of course, the moment when we find that agreements have not been met. Nieuwsuur has given a lead in a broadcast. The signals have also been sent to the VNG. Because we have agreed with each other, so I'm acting a little more in tune with the fact that municipalities through the city council I know that Mr Van Dijk's party is active in many municipal councils and I myself monitor what these funds are spent on. That is where children are known, that is where local parties, for example in the field of poverty reduction, and civil society, are active, and that is where money can be used as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u108	This comparison with Brussels is nice, but that is just another level of government. This is about the Empire, about a rich decision to spend money on poverty reduction, but that money is spent by municipalities on something else. I would just like to make it clear whether the Secretary of State is prepared to take action on the basis of the administrative agreements that are being violated. Can we assume that if the money is spent wrongly, you will recover it or that you will deal with the municipalities in a different way, so that we are reassured?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u109	In the follow-up to my speech, I would have liked to point out that a lot of questions I have been asked about how many municipalities are involved, how much money is involved, how many children are involved, can you recover the money, do you have to mark the ear? These questions are based on the assumption that everything is clearly wrong. In my introduction, I indicated that I do not have any signs that the word "mass" is being violated. If there are signals about municipalities, they are issued by the VNG. After all, we have agreed that municipalities themselves are responsible for this. I think it is important that we properly evaluate this scheme, which we have been working on for a year, since 2017, and that we discuss it on the basis of facts. That is why I attach great importance to a good evaluation, not because I want to postpone it for myself. I will also deal with my commitment to the money from the coalition agreement. I hear a lot of good stories, too. By the way, the bandwidth is large. It depends a bit on how a colleague is in the race when it comes to combating poverty. There is a broad range of poverty reduction in municipalities. I would very much like to serve the Chamber and gather the facts. That's happening right now. On that basis, we can see if we need to adjust the arrangements. I'm also saying I'm open to that. There is now a wide palette. I hear parties in the Chamber on the one hand saying that it should all be stricter, but I also hear a call for more flexibility, in all kinds of ways. I think it is quite right that we should discuss this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u110	I think it is very good to have this debate on the facts. It's a good thing we're being evaluated. We already know that there are municipalities that say not to do it: Rotterdam, Almelo, Barendrecht. Those are congregations that say we're not doing it. Is the Secretary of State really prepared to take more stringent steps after that evaluation? You're talking about ear tags, for example. It's called "target benefit" in jargon. Are these steps actually ahead of us?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u111	It may well be that we agree that we should not make any administrative arrangements about this money at all, for example because it is used in a very good way by municipalities that spend freely on it. I don't want to anticipate the evaluation. I certainly do not want to preside over stricter agreements. I attach great importance to the idea of decentralisation that letting go is also trust. It's the town hall, which I always want to emphasize that these children can find. I do not know whether municipalities that say 'I have used these resources in a different way' have not reached these children in any other way. Examples of this have also been given in the debate today. So I certainly don't want to presort on that. If we call each other a palette of evaluation possibilities, it is, as far as I am concerned, all of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u112	Your second question, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u113	It is a question of trust. We have talked extensively here in the Chamber about the extra money. Several political parties have also expressed concern about whether it really ends up with the children. Now there are municipalities that say "we use the money to close the financial gaps," "we put it in lampposts" or I don't know what they put it in. At least it doesn't go to the kids themselves. In my view, it is essential that we ensure that this money, including the extra money, really reaches the children. That also has to do with trust. If we are to meet 100 million here and perhaps 130 million later with the additional funds from the new cabinet, we must be sure, even if local choices are made to do it through the school or the sports association, that it will end up with the children. We have to be able to get that guarantee, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u114	We made those arrangements. We have also said that it is ultimately up to the city council to see to that. That is also important, because the city council can oversee the overall picture. He also knows where to find the children locally. I think it is important to give the agreements we have made a chance to be dealt with. Signals we received, partly in connection with the news broadcast, have been passed on to the VNG. It is important that municipalities appeal to each other and that the city council takes up its role. At the same time, we have carried out the evaluation to see whether the criteria are right and whether we need to make administrative arrangements or if we need to deal with each other in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u115	I have indicated that you can combat segregation between children if, for example, you would re-enter school swimming. The Secretary of State said that the money must end up with the right children. Suppose somewhere in the country there would be an alderman who would say: I'm re-entering school swimming and I'm making some of my own budget. It will then benefit children from low-income families, but perhaps also children who are not entirely entitled to it. What does this Secretary of State say?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u116	This Secretary of State then says that this is precisely why this is not a debate that you can consistently give a black and white opinion on. It is very good that we have an evaluation, also to see what the effect of these funds is in the end. On the one hand, I hear very clearly in the Chamber today the call for more stringent measures, which I understand, because that is what we signed up to, but on the other hand I hear a call for more flexibility. I can understand both, but we did make a deal with each other. As far as I am concerned, therefore, we must also evaluate this in the autumn to see whether it is possible, or whether there will be all kinds of unintended effects. I also found in Mr De Jong's speech a number of points of departure, which I say: you must also, in the end, ensure that the sense of justice is maintained, including in a local society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u117	And then there's another point. The Secretary of State indicated that categorical assistance was not targeted enough. But now there's another alderman and that alderman says, okay, I'm not gonna give it to all the families in welfare, I'm just gonna give it to single-parent families who've been on welfare for two years. Then what does this Secretary of State say to such an alderman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u118	I believe that in the current Participation Act, in which we can make an individual assessment of the situation of people, we can also do this with customisation. A specific category of assistance is contrary to this principle. So I would not be in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u119	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u120	A number of questions, in particular the questions "how many municipalities?', "How much money?" And "how are you gonna recover that?', I've already answered in the interruptions. The SP, PVV and DENK groups had asked for this. I would like to point out once again that this evaluation should give an idea in the autumn of the way in which and the extent to which the objectives of the agreements have been achieved. I would like to briefly mention the question: how do you deal with the funds currently contained in the coalition agreement? That question was asked by a number of Members of Parliament. These funds are intended, among other things, for poverty and are aimed in particular at families with children, but also at having a debt approach. I would also like to say in the direction of the Christian Union, of Mr Bruins, who has also asked for it, that it is important that we should be here here. I am talking a bit in a metaphorical way about choosing a fish and a fishing rod. That means, on the one hand, that we are in immediate need, but, on the other hand, that we are in a position to work on methodology development, that we can learn from each other and that we can work on an infrastructure which, in the longer term too, I call it a metaphorical rod given to municipalities and in their extension to people living in poverty. As far as I am concerned, the five funds can also play a role in this. I also think that it is a good thing that we look again at this in the evaluation of the current funds. I would like to give one further warning to all the political groups that are in favour of ear-tagging, either within the current funds or within the new funds. We must be very careful not to add all kinds of extra bureaucracy. When we ask municipalities to submit plans for money flows, to account for them and to consult, a lot of money that can also go to children goes to consultation forms. I think that's something we all wouldn't want. I believe that our ambition is similar: we want to put our shoulders on fighting poverty. I would like to work hard on this both with the current funds and with the funds that will soon be available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u121	Clear. Those funds should also be used mainly to work on that infrastructure. You're talking about those five organizations. Part of the money, 4 million, is also earmarked for the possibility of other parties making grant applications. This would provide opportunities for new entrants and other parties. How do you feel about that? Could new parties, who also have good ideas, also contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u122	Locally, you see that, too. Municipalities like to work with the four large funds, but sometimes also consciously with local partners or with smaller providers. I also think there should be room for that. I also think it is right to involve these funds in the evaluation. In my opinion, they can reach children who are less easily reached by the municipalities in a very beautiful way. It is also good to look at the construction of the money as it is today, with 85 million to the municipalities and a subsidy pot from the Ministry. That's what I'm happy to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u123	The Secretary of State indicated that she doesn't want any extra bureaucracy going towards those municipalities. I can imagine that, but if the municipalities spend that money, you could also say that they only have to send one note explaining what they spent that money on. They got that money. This must be used to combat child poverty, as a bonus, that was also a condition. What is wrong with saying that at the end of the year these municipalities send an overview of what they did with that money?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u124	I understand very well what Mr De Jong means. I certainly don't want to make a caricature of it. The idea that we often have in this Chamber, that a single note is enough, often turns into a huge stream of bureaucracy in practice, because we want to do it fully and carefully, to organise participation and to involve everything. I'd just like to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u125	Fortunately, the municipalities do so anyway, if it is right, because they have budgetary treatment and accountability debates. A good city council is already trying to control it anyway. Because that money comes from here, actually from the taxpayer, but here the decision has been made to let that money go to the municipalities, to spend on poverty reduction, and I imagine we'll say to those people: okay, you have that money now, give it what you've done with it. That's different than setting up a whole new system. You're actually only asking for access to what they already administer, if it's okay. Is the Secretary of State prepared to bring that up in the conversation with the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u126	I think this is a theme in the evaluation. I can tell you what my stakes are. We have agreed that the municipality is the best place to reach children in poverty, because it is also a consideration of an individual situation. Then we put that money in the Municipal Fund. There's a lot of money in that for the municipalities. They can also put money flows together and sometimes organize things smarter. That also means letting go in this house, and that's not always easy. You can make administrative arrangements, especially when it comes to a new flow of money. That was done in the previous period. My basic attitude is that if we leave it to the municipalities, we must also give the municipalities the freedom to do what is best for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u127	Thank you. The Secretary of State is ready. I like that, too. Short and powerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u128	Yeah, I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u129	A good example, Mr. Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u130	I thought she wasn't ready, but I have one more question. In my view, there is not such a great contradiction between those who talk about greater freedom and flexibility and those who want to be more strictly on top of it. Mr. Peters rightly said that he doesn't care as much as that money, left or right, but those kids end up in poverty. Do you see anything to look at that rule that the money must be spent in kind?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u131	As far as I am concerned, this is also part of the evaluation, to see whether we really want to do so, or to extend the freedom of policy for municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u132	Wouldn't it be good to decide something about that today? With that evaluation, we'll be back six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u133	Yeah, but we've only been working with this money flow for a year. It's been agreed. Let the congregations get to work. I hear different signals: stricter or freer. I also find some of the way some municipalities do it, but it is their freedom and their city council that oversees it. In this sense, it is also a good thing that there will be elections later, as Mr Kuzu said. It's an important theme how you handle this. As far as I'm concerned, we're going to get the facts. That must be done carefully. Then we'll have this conversation in the fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u134	My group really believes that there is something in the Secretary of State's speech. You don't want to create unnecessary bureaucracy. It is very important to look at positive examples. I asked in the first period about the agreement in the covenant how to better share the positive examples. There are, and perhaps we have paid far too little attention to this in the debate today. Does the Secretary of State have any concrete idea how she's going to share it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u135	We had another meeting this morning, with a large part of this committee also present. I said there that I would send another collection letter to the congregations soon. In that you always have the opportunity to give a bit of information. I can imagine that I would devote a passage to good examples in the field of poverty reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u136	Then we go to the second term of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u137	Mr. Chairman. However good it is to share good examples, education is important and I think we need to do much more, because those children in poverty deserve that support. That's what those Klijnsmaalten are for. This has not solved the major problem of poverty in the Netherlands, but the support in the back is really needed. We are also done with the non-binding. We already hear that municipalities deliberately do not spend the money and then the time of no commitment is over. That is why I have tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that one in nine children live in poverty;]] [[noting that EUR 100 million is available annually to support children in poverty;]] [[noting that this money does not end up in poverty for children in all municipalities;]] [[calls on the government to make clear and concrete agreements with the municipalities before the summer to put these funds into poverty for children and if this is not achieved with a target benefit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-420]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u138	Mr. Chairman. I wrote in the motion to do so before the summer, because if we start evaluating in the autumn, we will actually skip another year. If we know what is going on before the summer, and perhaps that will lead to better agreements, we can make it work for 2019. That is why we call for this evaluation to be carried out as soon as possible. Then we can really do something about combating poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u139	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Voortman on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State refers to the evaluation. She did notice in the debate that I myself was looking for a way to reach those children. Do we have to look at these funds in other ways? I am prepared to wait for the evaluation, but I would like to see other ways of getting the money from the children who really need it. Maybe sometimes we should be a little less rigid about it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that one in nine children in the Netherlands is growing up in poverty;]] [[noting that growing up in poverty has a major impact on children's lives;]] [[noting that, among other things, the children's ombudsman indicates that children are really helped by a coherent approach aimed at the whole environment of children, starting with the uncertain home situation;]] [[calls on the government to examine, together with local authorities, how best to achieve this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-421]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u141	I'm hoping for an open conversation with good outcomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u142	Mr De Lange on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u143	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Today's debate makes it clear that we are all serious about ensuring that the money can go to children who can have trouble at times so that they can participate. We're all looking for ways to do that. Important words have been said today about the importance of an evaluation. There needs to be a proper evaluation to see what does work, what doesn't work and what can do better. That is why the VVD would like to table a motion. It was co-signed by Mr Raemakers, Mr Peters and Mr Bruins, respectively, from D66, the CDA and the Christian Union. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that "opportunities for all children" provided a structural budget of EUR 100 million to enable children to participate in poverty;]] [[having noted that the first evaluation will be carried out in autumn 2018;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[inform the Chamber of 1 April 2018 of the criteria established to determine whether the objectives of "opportunity for all children" are being achieved;]] [[use the first evaluation to propose improvements where necessary for the implementation of this budget in the coming years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Lange, Mr Raemakers, Mr Peters and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-422]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Today I spoke on behalf of D66 about two paradoxes that my group sees and two possible ways of resolving them. I am actually very pleased with the answer given by the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State clearly states that the freedom of municipalities is also important and that we must also dare to let go. And the Secretary of State clearly states: be aware of the bureaucracy as well. We certainly have an eye for that. What we must not forget are the positive examples: the many municipalities in our country that are doing well. Members of parliament make regular calls to municipalities. We say, "Well, municipality, use that money well." But I also know that there are a lot of municipalities, municipalities, colleges, civil servants who have really good ideas and really deliver concrete results. I would also like to call on these municipalities to invite Members of Parliament if they have a good example. Then we'll come and see. And let's share the positive, good examples together to combat child poverty in the Netherlands as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u145	Thank you, Mr. Raemakers. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u146	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions here, but I'm going to file two. The third motion is a question I'm going to ask. And I hope I get an affirmative answer to that. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate nationally which families are financially in trouble? This is not just about Utrecht, which the Nibud has focused on, but about a national survey. Then there's the first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are municipalities that spend the money on children in poverty on other matters, such as closing budget gaps;]] [[calls on the government to recover this money and to ensure that this money ends up in poverty among children,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-423]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u147	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government no longer to impose the limiting condition that funds for children in poverty should be spent only in kind,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-424]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u148	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the firm and efficient way of replying. I have a question and a short motion. The question I have is next. We know that most children who live in absolute poverty have working parents. I heard that in March we received a letter from the Secretary of State, which included a response to the ESC. My question is: can the Secretary of State also comment in that letter on the fact that the working parents are not necessarily in the social service? Do we even have a view of this hidden poverty, the poverty of children with working parents? Do we even know who they are? We do have numbers, but do municipalities know where this hidden poverty is? Can that be included in the letter? Then I'll file my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to encourage municipalities to extend the freedom of choice in the use of funds for child poverty, appropriate to local demand and supply, with the aim of stimulating the local economy, re-use/repair and social entrepreneurship,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-425]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u149	And that is what I am asking in the context of the fact that, of course, I am well aware that the municipalities have the primacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u150	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I'll see if the minister can answer directly. Oh, excuse me, I mean the Secretary of State; I say "Minister" every time. She's asking for a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u151	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are two more questions and there are six motions. There was a question from the Christian Union about working parents in poverty who are not necessarily in the social service. They asked if there was any research going on. It is being investigated. We will return to this in the response to the ESC opinion. Mr Van Dijk asked whether national research is possible. We have, of course, recently received the CBS monitor on poverty. It provides a comprehensive picture of which people are in poverty or who are at great risk of poverty. In addition, Nibud makes example budgets. This too has indeed been negotiated or has already come to us. I'm getting to the motions. The motion-Gijs van Dijk-Jasper van Dijk in part No. I regret to say that 420 is not recommended, because decentralisation is, as far as I am concerned, also letting go. This means that this is contrary to a target benefit. The motion Voortman/Gijs van Dijk in part No. 421 calls on the government, in response to the report of the Children's Ombudsman, to look at the whole environment of children, starting with the home situation. I leave this judgment to the Chamber. I would also like to include this in the evaluation. I come to the motion-De Lange c.s. in piece No. 422. I would like to inform the Chamber about this in the cabinet response to the SER report and the report of the Kinderombudsman. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The Jasper van Dijk/Gijs van Dijk motion in part No. 423 is not feasible, because money cannot be recovered and given to others. Moreover, I would point out that it is a task of the city council to carry out this control. So I'm not suggesting this motion. Then there is the Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 424. I indicated this in the debate: let us involve this in the evaluation. That is why I also advise against this motion. Then there's one final motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u153	Mr Gijs van Dijk, do you have a short question about the previous motion? I see that this is not the case. Proceed, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u154	Then there is the Bruins motion in part No. 425. I see this in the policy freedom of the municipalities and therefore I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u155	Finally, Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u156	I had another question about the possible advance of that evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u157	We want to do him thoroughly and carefully with as many municipalities as possible. That means I have to hold on to the timeline.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u158	About my motion on part No. 424. If I understand you correctly, you say that you do not disagree, but that you want to look at it first. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u159	I have indicated that we have these kinds of questions in the evaluation. I cannot let it go on the current budgets and budgets. That's how I saw him. Therefore, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u160	I have one more question about the Bruins motion in part No. 425. If I read this motion, it could simply mean that the money, which amounts to 100 million or so, but above all that 100 million, which is extra, could be spent in a free way to stimulate, for example, a local economy. That can be very sympathetic, of course, but I do not think that is what that money was meant for at the time. So why does the Secretary of State leave the verdict to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u161	Because I've seen the motion in light of the current administrative arrangements. They will of course be reviewed in the autumn, but they are currently in force. Inside, we agreed that children should be provided in kind. Municipalities can vary in how they do it. That's how I read this motion. I therefore leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u162	This brings us to the end of this debate. I thank the Secretary of State. I thank the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-08-tweedekamer-7.u163	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
