ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the General Financial Reviews. I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance. The Secretary of State for Finance is also supposed to be present, alongside the Minister. I understand he's on his way, so we're just gonna get started. By the way, I would also like to welcome the people in the public gallery and the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u2	I give Mrs Aukje de Vries as the first speaker on behalf of the VVD Group... Wait a minute. Edgar Mulder's starting. Yeah, we always start with the biggest opposition party. That's true. We are indeed starting with the largest opposition party and that is the PVV. Excuse me, Mr. Edgar Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u3	I won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u4	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. In 2017, we were promised 1% more purchasing power. And 90% of all Dutch people would improve on it. The media took over that story jubilantly. But it was a trick. It was not true, because in reality it was only 0.3%, and half of the Dutch even declined in terms of purchasing power. In 2018, this Minister Hoekstra used the same trick, with a hallelujah story about a 0.6% increase in purchasing power. But even now, that didn't add up. 30% of this purchasing power promise has already gone down. A 1.5% plus is promised for 2019. And excited NOS- and NRC-lakes try to tell us that Rutte III is the best invention for the Netherlands since the cut white bread. But again, it's just a trick. Yesterday we read that prices are rising by more than €700. Nothing in the plus; deep in the minus. Mr. Chairman. The story that everybody's getting better is not true. It doesn't make any sense. And I say to you: if inflation continues to grow, and wages do not rise by 3%, and it is already certain that the daily costs will increase enormously, then millions of Dutch people are going to decline. This increase in purchasing power, as I say to the viewers at home, you can write on your stomach. This isn't a trick anymore, this is a lie-based propaganda. And the story gets worse. For the loads that are on the other side are cast into concrete. The VAT rate on groceries goes from 6% to 9%, no matter what. The energy tax goes up by at least €150. The care premium is rising, too. The mortgage interest rate deduction is being reduced more quickly and the rents are also going up again. You really don't have to be a Syrian ICT specialist so you can calculate that the wallet remains almost as empty as last year, or even more looted. I'm betting here for a case of beer that the 1.5% promise for 2019 isn't fulfilled either. I can't wait to see who's willing to make that bet here today. Under the guidance of Rutte, the belt has been worn antisocially in recent years. There were tens of billions of savings and taxes were only increased. The citizen paid for the crisis. As a result of the austerity, 6% of economic growth and nearly 400,000 jobs were lost. That policy was more than bad. And there are still parties here who dare to beat themselves up for this. You've got to dare! However, the crisis is now over, there is a budget surplus, public finances are in order, unemployment is falling and business is making money again as water. Everyone, but everyone really benefits, except the ordinary man and woman. For them, the crisis is not over. They barely feel that things are getting better. In fact, they're just going further into the minus. The hard truth is that there is no relief in 2019. On page 62 of the draft resolution, we read that the burden for families in 2019 will simply rise by 800 million. That's a burden increase. We've been seeing this phenomenon for decades. The common man draws the short straw. The Central Planning Office has estimated that the economy has grown by 15% over the last 15 years. Business profits also doubled, but the purchasing power of the Dutch barely increased, with only 2%. The gap created by this is 13%. So, in fact, purchasing power should increase by 13% instead of 1.5%, just to catch up. The Dutchman in 2018 has on average as much to spend as someone in 1977, while the economy of the Netherlands increased fivefold. How unfair do you want it to be? The ordinary Dutchman has therefore been short for years, while the companies have raised the profits and the government is increasing the burden. The common man didn't get any extras... zero, nada, zero; smell for thanks. But the Dutchman has to work longer and longer and does not benefit from the increased prosperity, and that is a great shame. What does this cabinet do, what does this government do? This cabinet throws billions at multinationals and at best a few crumbs at the common foot people. The common man has to do it at an average of €1 per day, while the Shells and Unilevers of this world get 4 billion. Billions to Unilever to get them to the Netherlands. Good morning, Secretary of State. I'm glad you could make it. Mr President, the Secretary of State also had time for us. What are we reading today in The Financial Daily? That many shareholders are still opposed to the move to the Netherlands. In any event, the PVV is opposed to this measure. We are opposed to abolishing the dividend tax. Those billions don't have to go to Unilever, they have to go to the common man. But can we now agree that if Unilever decides not to come to the Netherlands, Rutte will at least go to Unilever? The ordinary Dutchman therefore receives no support from these coalition parties. However, there is support for Brussels, Africa and the multinationals. They get money and the ordinary Dutchman can pay. The upcoming VAT increase on groceries is really going to hurt a lot: €300 per year. And not for luxury business, but just for bread, butter and cheese. This is on top of the fact that it is already very expensive in the Netherlands. All prices continue to rise. Yesterday, all the news came that families lost an average of €700 more. In addition to the care premium and the energy tax, the rates for internet and car and home insurance are going to rise considerably. And Dutch consumer prices were already 15% above the average in Europe in 2017. Clothing and shoes, for example, are 12% more expensive than in the rest of the countries around us. The Netherlands also has the highest petrol price; we even go towards the €2. All these cases just hurt in the ordinary man's wallet. The taxes do not give it a gift in the Netherlands. Then you shouldn't have it from Secretary Hoekstra. The taxes are already high. And under this cabinet, the collective burden pressure is rising cheerfully: from 35.6% in 2012 to 39.2%. What do you mean, working Netherlands deserves lower taxes? Yeah, if you make a few tons, but for the common man, the VVD is definitely the champion charge increase. All these factors mean that citizens have barely any savings left. The available capacity is far below the average in Europe. 20% of households in the Netherlands 20%! You don't even have any savings, Minister. Those are the people who really don't get it as a gift in life. So it can happen that we now have so-called working poor in our country. According to the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, it's already over 300,000. 5% of workers in the Netherlands cannot live. So those are people with a paid job who don't have money for fun things on weekends and also for standard things like food, drink, clothing and housing. The figures prove it: it is not going as well as this cabinet says. Then what does this minister do? What are the consequences of this Millions note? Let's take a look at that. According to the Nibud, a family with two children where the partners both work and together earn €30,000 €8 per month. A family with two children, partners both working, €30,000, €8 on it backwards. But a family with two children in which the partners together earn two tons, improves €128. Every month. A difference of €1,600 per year, to the disadvantage of the ordinary Dutchman. The VVD, this minister Hoekstra takes very good care of his own VVD-people, but the ordinary Dutchman has a problem. Mr. Chairman. We have in science a number of scales to capture and measure something. We have the Richter scale for earthquakes, the Beaufort scale for wind power, the Twan Huys scale for historically low ratings. It is now time for a new scale, a financial scale: the Wopke scale, for unfair income distribution. Mr. Chairman. Why are we doing this to our own people? Why isn't attention paid to the ordinary man and woman? Where did that nose of trade-K come from for the Dutchman? It's so incredibly unfair. Because if you're lucky enough, compare that one euro per day for the common Dutchman with all the other amounts this cabinet spends. 4 billion a year for Africa, 8.5 billion to Brussels, 4 billion extra for multinationals and foreign shareholders, 6 billion in climate and innovation subsidies, 1 billion for public broadcasting, and then I have not mentioned the 7 billion in benefits for 600,000 non-Western immigrants. Dozens of billions of lost money. Billions of taxpayers' money spent with blood, sweat and tears is just wasted. If you really look at the numbers, it's not just frightening, it's disgusting. This cabinet, this elite, is not there for the Netherlands. It has to be different and it can be different. No more open borders, but a safe country. Not billions for foreign investors, but money in the cut for the common man. No power for Brussels, but we just decide here, in the Netherlands. No money for corrupt and criminal regimes in Africa. Just running this country on the basis of common sense. Mr. Chairman. There is a surplus this year: over 8 billion. We can discuss and discuss a great deal of differences here in this Chamber, but that surplus must of course return to the citizen. It's too much taxpayers' money. It's not from this minister. It belongs to the citizen. Then use some of that money to reduce the rents, reverse the increase in VAT and make sure that the increase in the health insurance premium does not take place. It's very concrete, you don't have to cut back and it's possible immediately. And then you still have a little less than two billion left. I therefore call on this Minister to do something for the ordinary Dutchman. And one more thing about the expat arrangement. For many years we have been trying to abolish this system, because it is unjust and ineffective. Slowly but surely we also see other parties moving. It's really crazy to give rich foreigners a big grant. For viewers at home: 30% of the salary of a foreign employee is not taxed in the Netherlands. This is not at the expense of the companies that bring these people here, but at the expense of the taxpayer. The Dutchman simply has to pay 100% tax and the foreigner gets 30% tax-free. If in a street the Jansen family lives next to the Mbeki family and does the same work, the Mbeki family gets a lot more net. That's impossible, isn't it? I looked it up: in 2016 there were 225 foreigners who per year were out of work! On average, they made 2.5 million dollars and were allowed to put more than €370,000 per person in their pockets every year. But of course, it can always be crazier. We have a winner: the winner is the boss of the company NXP. Thanks to this expat facility, he was able to add 45 million extra to his bank account; 45 million gift from Minister Hoekstra. I would like a response from the Minister: how honest does he think that is? The PVV wants to stop this unfair arrangement immediately. Locking up, Mr. Chairman. Politics is about making choices. Sharing the tax money available is an excellent choice. Unfortunately, this cabinet chooses the elite and abroad. The PVV chooses the common man. A large part of the available money is spent wrongly in the Netherlands, for years. A lot of money goes to foreigners, to projects and ideas that make the elite very happy but that doesn't help the ordinary Dutchman. This minister and this cabinet are not for the Dutch but for Brussels, for multinationals and for Africa. I'm here on behalf of the PVV. My party is 100% for the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is doing well. The economy is growing, more people find jobs and unemployment is falling; unemployment has been halved since 2014. There is a substantial budget surplus and public debt is declining. We are better off than most people dared to hope during the economic crisis. As from next year, as many people as possible will have to reap the benefits of these fine figures in their wallet. This is the first real budget of the Rutte III cabinet, a budget in which the proposals from the coalition agreement are placed. In my contribution, I will focus on four major issues: investing in what is needed for the present and future, the reduction of burdens, the importance of an attractive locational environment and a responsible financial policy. First of all, investing in what is needed for the present and future. It's no good that the government's budget is in order if the nursing home your parents are in is bad. That is why EUR 2 billion has already been made available in the budget for improvements in care for the elderly; extra money for bedkeeping. We see that people are worried about rising healthcare costs. In addition, there is a growing question as to whether care is still available when it is needed. That is why the Cabinet is also taking measures to reduce the accumulation of healthcare costs. The own risk is frozen, there is a subscription rate in the Social Support Act and the capital income addition is halved in long-term care. We also maximize the own contribution you pay for some medicines. Economic growth is nice, but if you don't feel safe in your neighborhood or street, you have something else on your mind. The VVD is therefore pleased with the extra money allocated for security, as it can add 1,100 agents in the district, to tackle crime in your street and make sure you can feel safe in your own environment. Additional money is also being made available to Defence, and this is very much needed in view of the growing threats in the world around us. Next year, that will be EUR 1.2 billion extra. Mr. Chairman. Investing in the future also means investing in education, research and innovation. Our education needs to prepare children for a world where technological change is faster than ever. We need to prepare the kids for tomorrow's jobs. That is why we are investing a total of EUR 1.9 billion. A structural allocation of EUR 450 million will also be made to reduce the workload in education. That means that extra hands can be chosen in the classroom. Money is also allocated to higher salaries. In primary education, salaries are rising by 8.5%. This makes the profession of teacher more attractive and hopefully more people in the class start working. In order to grow in the future, we must be able to come to work and come home at the end of the day. We need to put our infrastructure in order for this to happen. A good example of this is the approach of the A1 at Muiderberg: 80% fewer traffic jams. That means you'll be home faster, giving you more time for important business. In addition, there is less environmental nuisance because fewer cars with a running engine are stationary. But also the A24, including the Blankenburg tunnel and the node Hoevelaken, is being addressed. This cabinet invests more in the public sector than any cabinet for us. That is right, and that is also important as far as we are concerned. But that also gives us the expensive duty to spend that money well, to ensure that the nursing homes are indeed getting better, that safety is increasing, that our education is ready for the future and that you can also drive home after work. How does the cabinet ensure that all these euros are put away in good time, but certainly responsibly, so that we also achieve what we want to achieve? Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u8	All these investments: it sounded like music to me. However, I would suggest to Mrs De Vries that this cabinet should invest more than previous cabinets. But if you look, for example, at the first year of government, this year, you can already see that the EUR 2.9 billion promised for district nurses, for police, for defence and for the Tax Office remains on the shelf. Does Mrs De Vries not think that the promises made for this year in the coalition agreement should also be kept?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u9	I have just said that I think it is important that this is done in good time, but the money must also be put away responsibly. It is certainly important that the money that we have earmarked for investment is properly used. I am well aware that, for example, it concerns very large investments in equipment. We are talking about submarines and we are talking about frigates. Then you also have to take the time to follow a good tender process and put the money away in a responsible way. I therefore agree with you in principle that we should spend that money, but that must be done responsibly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u10	What I thought was so crazy about the Millions note is that the cabinet actually threw the towel in the ring in August. It promises to invest 2.9 billion this year, but it simply puts it in the public debt and that investment is not going to happen anymore. I think that's a very bad thing. Mrs De Vries says that these investments are so important to society, but they are broader. There is also under-utilisation in education, but I also mention district nurses, police and defence. It's not one post where you had to order tanks and come a year later. Does Mrs De Vries agree with me that we should call on the cabinet to honour the promises it has made for this year and to invest the 2.9 billion in the things that we all consider important?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u11	I do think that we should also be realistic and that we should also have a realistic path for these investments. You could say the estimates weren't right. They may have had to be different, but of course we think it is important that the investments we have agreed on are actually made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u12	Can Mrs De Vries indicate how much the cabinet is now investing in salaries in the public sector and in reducing the workload? Then I'm talking about education, care, police.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u13	I do not have all the figures at hand, but I have just mentioned an amount for education. Very specific funding has been allocated to reducing the workload in education. I think that's 420 or 430 million euros. I think we should get rid of the idea that we can solve everything with money. I think, for example, that a lot of the workload for people in the workplace and for healthcare professionals is in line. That is why I am very pleased that we are going to take a very focused approach to care in this area, so that we can remove that frustration and give the professionals more space.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mrs De Vries does not answer, but I do not blame her. What strikes me is that the coalition parties and the cabinet constantly conjure up numbers and then compare apples to pears. "The Cabinet that invests most in the public sector." Then it's also about investing in asphalt, and also about investing in Invest-NL, but that doesn't help the public sector. I have asked again: this cabinet invests 1.3 billion in additional working conditions and a reduction in the workload for the entire cabinet period. What are you saying to all those people who walked past the ministries yesterday, who the water is to the lips? You're saying you're gonna have to deal with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u15	No, I'm not saying that. I say that we are making the very conscious choice of investing in the public sector. For example, we are ensuring that extra money is provided in the care of the elderly so that more people can be hired so that there are more hands on the bed. The same applies to education, from which I mentioned an example earlier. So I think there's a lot of investment going on. But I think we should also be aware of other things. We invest heavily in the public sector. I think that is necessary, but I also think that we should have room for burden relief, and I think that we should have a responsible fiscal policy, because we should also have room for problems to be dealt with for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u16	But you know that the questions from the sector of police, teachers, caregivers are really much higher, that we are not going to get to the upcoming staff shortages by 1.3 billion and that at least 2 billion is already needed this year. What are you saying to these people? You know, your answer is insufficient; that is my problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u17	I can explain that perfectly, because we're investing heavily. As you yourself or Mr Nijboer said, most of all Cabinets. And I think this is about making choices, too. You have to make choices in politics. And we make the choice: investing in care, education, defence and police, in reducing burdens; and also a responsible fiscal policy, because we do not want to move the problems forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mr. Chairman. I'd almost say hallelujah, that sounds great! I was stuck with Mrs De Vries' first sentence, which said: 'The Netherlands is doing well'. I thought: which Netherlands? Is that the Netherlands of the VVD, of people who have it right? Or is that the Netherlands of Mrs Cornelissen, who addressed me, and said: I have a small pension in metal; in 2013 I got nothing, in 2014 6.3% went off, in 2015 0%, 2016 0%, 2017 0%. And it's still underneath: it looks like I'm not getting anything in the next few years. What are you doing for someone with a small pension in the metal, who hasn't gotten anything for years, and in the meantime has seen inflation rise by 8%?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u19	First of all, I think that we offer the people in the country, and also the lady you are talking about, that we have very good care in the Netherlands and also a good AOW. I think that's a basis for people. And when I look at what is going to happen for that group in the coming period, I think that measures are also being taken that ultimately ensure, in their entirety, that the pensioners' group is also on average making progress on average. We are doing this, for example, because of the old-age discount, but we are also taking the many measures in the care I mentioned to keep care affordable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u20	But does Mrs De Vries tell us that the woman, who hasn't been getting anything for years, who, with the euro she gets but for 92% of the same euro, can buy groceries and so on, that we do have good health insurance?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u21	I think it's a total package. You paint the Netherlands as if it were a terrible country to live in. I just don't agree with you. We have a number of things just very well in order. I think we have a very good concern, that we have very good social security. In addition, there is the specific problem of the elderly, which you are addressing. We have taken a number of measures to this end. I think that is important, because it is important that the elderly should also be given a little more to spend.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u22	I must say that if I ask two critical questions, then I am accused of portraying the Netherlands as a terrible country. I am a popular representative and I am addressed by someone who says he hears the VVD saying all day that things are going great in this country but wonders what this is doing for him. If that is the reason for Mrs De Vries to say to me that I portray the Netherlands as a terrible country: I love this country and it is very good but not with everyone. And that's why we're sitting here together. You make different choices than I do. You make the choice to cut the multinationals back and forth, and that defends you over and over again. You make the choice to give people who make a lot more money, and I don't make that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u23	Short response. We make choices, including for the elderly. We make sure that the elderly discount goes up, which means that people have more to spend. We take care that there is less accumulation of care costs. I believe that this has also helped the elderly in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mrs De Vries is doing the polonaise policy that the cabinet also did on Prinsjesdag. She says we invest 6.5 billion. Apart from the question of whether this includes roads and Invest-NL, let us leave these 6.5 billion prices, I would like to ask Mrs De Vries how much savings have been made on the public sector in recent years since the outbreak of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u25	I am very honest and I believe that during the previous General Financial Reviews, I also indicated that we did indeed have to make substantial cuts in the crisis and we also had to increase the burden on people, but that was necessary to ensure that we do not move that bill to the future and we will soon be able to deal with the problems if there are any economic problems again. I think it is important that we take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u26	Would you like me to help Mrs De Vries? Between 50 and 61 billion has evaporated from the public sector. Then you invest 10%. Then you can beat on the chest, but that is not to pay the bill that has been broken, which has also affected people's future in something other than public debt but, for example, a study loan. Then say "we are doing 6.5 billion and there can also be 2 billion to large business," which hurts people in the public sector. They feel that what this cabinet is repairing is far from paying the bill. And then the multinationals will be at the forefront of getting a substantial share.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u27	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u28	I ask the VVD whether it understands that people are stabbing, that they have lost between 50 and 60 billion and the bill is far from being settled, but that the big business gets just as much as 2 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u29	I understand very well that people think it is important to invest in the public sector. I also think that we are taking a step in that direction, but I also think it is a little harsh that I should hear from the SP, which in its own election programme pays 1.2 billion for education, that the 2 billion is not really enough. I think people in the country find this acidic, too, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u30	I'm just gonna take a look at that $2 billion I was talking about. It was about abolishing the dividend tax. In our election programme, we invest 15.6 billion in the public sector, by far the most of the parties in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u31	I have already indicated that, as far as I am concerned, this cabinet is right to invest in care, education and safety, but we are also making the choice to reduce the burden. That is a choice that the SP does not make in the counter-budget; it also deletes that for ordinary people with low and middle incomes. And I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u32	I actually wanted to join the debate on the Netherlands as a terrible country. No, the Netherlands is not a terrible country but this policy, your policy does not make it better. There will be no reduction in charges next year; there will be an increase in charges, as I have just said in detail. But I want to talk about the VVD as champion of tax reduction. What about the fact that a family in which two working people earn €30,000 is declining? And that was before it became known that prices were going to increase by another €700 a year. That family is declining €8 per month and a family with two children with only two tons of income is improving. You're here for all the people who work, aren't you? Why do people with low incomes decline in your policies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u33	I'll be right back to the part about the load relief. I think it is important to note that this cabinet does indeed reduce the burden of 6 billion in this cabinet period. This is particularly true in the case of middle and high incomes. And about the overall picture, you can say that there is an average improvement for people. They also feel better in their wallet. So I think you're also making a bit of a caricature of it by unpacking one group and then putting it like the whole picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u34	I've just been extremely careful in my contribution. It is true, and we have been able to read all these messages in the last few days, that the Planning Bureau admits that a number of things have not been taken. There will be €700 in additional costs. I'd like to remind my colleague, though. The groceries go up by €300. The energy load's going up. The energy rates, the care premium, the insurance, the calling, the internet, the gasoline: everything goes up. So that one group is much worse off? It's millions of Dutch people who are getting worse. And that at a time when the economy is booming. Then the Netherlands wonders, and I wonder: what should be done to improve citizens? What should happen in this country? How much do we need left over? 50 billion? Does everything have to go crazy ten times? If, with the current economic growth, we still let the ordinary citizen in the Netherlands go down while the companies get the profits, then something is very wrong. Respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u35	I think we're both concerned about the burden and purchasing power. I think we're definitely sharing that. I want to be able to offer that to the future, of course. I'll get back to you on that. But I also think you should stick to the facts. And I think this is a bit of a fact-free story. It is not for nothing that we allow an independent body such as the Central Planning Office to calculate the total impact of all the measures taken. And then you really have to keep a different story, because on average, people are going to get 1.5% better. Of course, that will depend very much on your particular situation. I shall also make a comment on this. For example, you may get a raise, or you may get a divorce: what influence does that have specifically for you? But you're turning it into a caricature.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u36	No. This is very impertinent. Everyone knows that the predictions have been wrong in recent years. The promised increase in purchasing power was subsequently calculated not true. A large part of the Netherlands went into the min. And now, a few days after the promises have been made, the Planning Agency already says it's not right. Now there are also figures that there will be €700 in additional costs. That means that almost the whole of the Netherlands is going down. So who doesn't stick to the facts here? The whole of the Netherlands is going down, while the economy is booming. And what should happen in this country to give people something? You must choose the Netherlands, not Africa and the multinationals. 'Cause that's where you give the money. So you're making a choice, but you're making a very bad choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u37	This is getting to me. I also think that you are fooling around and that you are not telling the Netherlands the honest story about this. Because you say that those costs that have recently been mentioned in that article of Pricewise have not been taken into account in any way in the calculations of the Central Planning Bureau. The care premium and all that sort of thing have just been included in the calculations. The VAT increase has simply been included in the calculations. So you really shouldn't be telling people this, because this is just not reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u38	Look, if you ask through, the VVD seems to know the real figures. But now they would have been settled somewhere. Then tell that to those families. Then tell that to that family that together makes €30,000. And then tell them how they're going to pay for the energy rates, the health insurance, the insurance, the calling, the internet and the gasoline. Then explain it to them!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u39	I dare to explain that to them. That is also why we have said that we want 6 billion relief in this cabinet period. And that total picture eventually makes people feel it in the wallet. But what you're doing here is really making it a caricature.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u40	You say the elderly are improving. I have the numbers in front of me here and I want to point out something. The estimate for 2018 for a couple with only AOW or AOW plus €10,000 is minus 1%, and next year at plus 1%. So that's zero on balance. There will indeed be an improvement next year, partly thanks to the old-age discount. 50PLUS has been fighting for this for years, and we are finally getting right and right. But this year it's minus 1% for people with only AOW or AOW plus €10,000 and it's next year plus 1%. That's zero on balance. And then I add that in 2017 it...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u41	Mr Van Rooijen, you have 40 minutes to speak. One question!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u42	Mr President, I can ask you a question, can't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u43	Yes, but no long introductions, please. That's what we just agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u44	But my colleague was just speaking in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u45	He can't do it either. That wasn't a good example either. Please continue. Really!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u46	It is remarkable, however, that I have the honour to do so. Mr President, I would like to make that point. So minus 1% and plus 1%, and the year before it was also a minus. It is therefore not true that older people are making progress when you look at a period of two or three years. And then I won't even talk about the Nibud. I have another question for you, which you can also respond to. If I may ask the President's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u47	It's going well today!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u48	I would like to point out the enormous leveling and the reduction in working time, which will be reduced very quickly and even much faster than in the past. The middle groups get a great thump from the VVD due to the reduction, the rigorous rapid reduction of the labour discount, while the accelerated reduction of the mortgage interest rate deduction at an ever lower rate also affects the middle groups. I would like an answer to these two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u49	Two questions in one go. Let me start with the last one. I think that when we put funds back, what people feel in their wallets, we chose the low and middle incomes. So I do not understand what Mr Van Rooijen is basing it on. We have always chosen the principle that working must pay. That is also why we are working on the employment discount, for example. We think that when people go to work, they should be rewarded for that. Then the point of the elderly...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u50	Can I just...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u51	No, Mrs Aukje de Vries has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u52	Then the point of the elderly. It is, of course, important that we also take measures to maintain the purchasing power of older people. I agree with Mr Van Rooijen. When I look at next year, it's just 1.4% while for the whole of the Netherlands it's on average 1.5%. So I think that there is also attention to the purchasing power of the elderly and that measures have also been taken, in addition to all kinds of measures to prevent the accumulation of healthcare costs, to reduce healthcare costs. I was just talking about that. People are also very concerned about this, especially the elderly in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u53	I note that my first question was not understood. Mrs De Vries said: I do not understand. I'll explain it again. The reduction in working time is becoming more and more rapid in the middle groups. This means that these people will receive much less employment discount on rising incomes. If you're gonna see that tape-down in a graph, it's gonna go faster and faster. That's what I call a huge leveling that you need to explain to the VVD voters. My question is: do you recognise that the middle groups in this approach of the cabinet supported by the VVD are severely affected? That's a huge leveling. You didn't understand the question, but it seems very simple to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u54	I understood the question perfectly; I just don't agree with you. You're pulling out one small part of it now, and I'm just sorry about that. You need to look at other things, too. You should also look at what we do with the income tax rate for the low and middle incomes. What, for example, are we doing with the childcare allowance? That doesn't apply to the elderly. So you're gonna take one piece out of it. I am so sorry that this will then be increased, while there will be all kinds of other measures that will ensure that this group will be given more to spend.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u55	And the second question about the elderly? You say it's a little better next year. I have said that the estimate I have in front of me shows that this year it is minus 1%. This is the case for people with AOW and people with AOW plus €10,000. That's what it says right here. And next year, that's plus 1%. That's zero on balance. Then you can't say that the elderly are making progress? Yeah, they're getting something next year she was taken from this year. That's nothing on balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u56	If it is specifically about the elderly, there are of course two things. On the one hand, this is the question of what pensions do. On the other hand, that is the question of what we are doing with the AOW. The AOW is simply indexed, so it also benefits older people. I know that we are very different in the pension debate. I know Mr. Van Rooijen is going to want to spend a lot more on that now, but I also think we should take care of the groups in the future. This is without prejudice to our view that we should also pay attention to the purchasing power of older people. That is also why a number of measures are being taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u57	You're bringing in something that has nothing to do with it. It is true, the AOW is increased and pensions are not indexed. All in all, it leads to the figures I mentioned. Your comment that we want to index pensions, we do want to index them, and that has not happened for ten years. My own-initiative draft, which you're probably referring to, only wants to avoid discounts for 5 to 10 million Dutch people by the end of next year. That's completely different. You should be ashamed of it if you do not support our initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u58	There!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u59	I think that's quite a special conclusion, I have to say...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u60	And that in an early morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u61	... in the light of the measures we have proposed. I find it very special that 50PLUS indicates that the level of pensions would have nothing to do with the purchasing power of older people.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u62	Thank you to the Secretary of State for the letter on dividend tax estimates. It's hard to read it at all, but that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u63	That's what you asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u64	Sure. But it's hard to read it anytime soon if I have to do my term. And I hope we'll also get information from the CPB on the energy tax. I would like to ask Mrs De Vries about this. She just defended the Central Planning Bureau and the purchasing power plates that are being made there. That's what I think is right. There are always concerns about purchasing power. But there is a structural problem and the Central Planning Office itself has pointed that out. That is the method of energy taxation and the reduction of the energy discount. It comes down harder at lower incomes than it says in the E.R. How does Mrs De Vries feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u65	Yeah, I read that, too. I think we should look at the whole picture there again. Of course, we want it to be preserved. I also believe that we both have the ambition to meet the climate objectives we have set ourselves. So, yeah, that's actually the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u66	That's not really an answer. Of course, we want to achieve the climate targets, but the measures for 2019 contribute 0.1% to the objectives we need to achieve. That is really marginal, and that is because of the wrong design of these measures. Can I ask Mrs De Vries that, especially when we are going to deal with the Tax Plan, there is an open view from the coalition to see if we can shape these measures in a different way, better for the climate and also better for the support for climate policy and better for the income position of lower incomes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u67	As far as I am concerned, this is a good measure. What I think is important is that, of course, we also set it back to income tax and that we are going to reduce these rates enormously, so that people will feel it in their pockets. So I also think it's a bit of a tricky discussion, and certainly a bit with GroenLinks. Because when I look at the GroenLinks electoral programme, I see 8 billion extra taxes on energy there. That is after this cabinet period, but they were indeed in it. Eventually, they'll have to land somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u68	They are also in the path of the cabinet. That is why we also have a problem that we should solve for the longer term, and that is precisely the energy bill for people that is such an important button to ensure that households also continue to pay a little well-balanced and are not hit harder. That is my problem with the proposal for 2019. So I would very much like to come back to it on my own term, and I would like to ask a bit of an open look from the coalition whether there is something to be done about this, because I think it is good for the support, it is good for the cabinet and it is good for the income position of people with lower incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u69	I think that we are really in a different position in the debate about whether you want to pursue income policy through the energy bill. I believe that we should do this mainly through the income tax system and that the choices should be made there. So I think that we are fundamentally different in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u70	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u71	Then I come to the issue of relief. People need to feel in their wallets that the Netherlands is doing better. That is why there is a reduction in the burden of more than EUR 6 billion in this budget. We're going to lower income tax and move towards a two-way system. We increase the employment discount and the general tax discount. And we're also increasing the childcare allowance. That's good news. More than 80% of the Dutch now give their own financial situation sufficient. But at the same time we see that people are uncertain about the consequences of all tax changes. Of course, it is a good thing that an average increase in purchasing power of 1.5% is predicted for 2019, even if we should not stare at it blindly. It's not just the government. If it is possible, employers must also ensure that wages increase. We're all making progress on average, but a lot will depend on your personal situation. Do you get a job? You gonna work more? Are you getting divorced? You're retiring? Or are you getting promoted? It all affects your own future. Mr. Chairman. The collective burden is still too high. The collective burden will grow to 39.2% in 2019. The VVD believes that we should continue to think about reducing the collective burden, in order to make room for burden relief. The VVD is curious how the minister looks at that. Where's that rise coming from? What possibilities does the Minister see for reducing this percentage in the coming years? Is the Minister prepared to investigate this further? All changes in taxes and surcharges are a huge challenge for our Tax Service. Stand on it! Every working day, 1 billion euros of taxes and premiums have to be collected. Every day! When you realize that, you realize how important it is for the IRS to function properly. This is often the case, but it is still too often not the case. In recent years, we have talked a lot about information technology, management and staff. A number of my colleagues have just spoken about the problems of inheritance tax. I ask the Minister to deal with the adjustment of the estimate of inheritance tax. For 2019, less revenue has been estimated, and that's crazy. Now part of the remaining 2017 inning is estimated for 2018, but that inning is also behind. As was pointed out last week, many wrong attacks have been imposed. Surely all this would mean that there should be more revenue? My colleagues Lodders and Hermans have already asked written questions about a study that shows that there are thousands of elderly people who miss out on their monthly allowances, such as a supplement/meet when renting a house or with regard to care costs. That has a direct impact on the wallet. We find the system of surcharges complicated. Fortunately, the Secretary of State agrees with us and he's going to think about it. But as long as the system is there, people have to be able to claim it. We would urge the Minister and the Secretary of State, together with his colleagues, to address the issues raised in the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u72	The VVD is now coming up with the story that there is a purchasing power plus 1.5%. Let's really look at the numbers, nothing else around them. If someone doesn't get that 3% wage increase, what's left of that 1.5% plus?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u73	I have indicated that the purchasing power figures are indications and that your personal situation will be very important. Then it does matter if you don't get a raise. But it also matters a lot if you get that raise. In some sectors, wage increases have also been agreed which are higher than the percentage mentioned by the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u74	No, I'm sticking very strictly to the normal numbers. The expected increase of 3% in wages has been fully taken into account. It's the static story, not the dynamic. So again the question: if someone doesn't get that 3% increase in wages that you wouldn't like, what's left of that 1.5%?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u75	I find it very special that the PVV first accuses me of using the figures of the Central Planning Bureau, then comes up with those figures from the Central Planning Bureau itself, and then says: yes, but those figures are very important; if anything else is going on with them, it has so much influence. I have made it very clear that if your personal situation changes, there will be consequences for purchasing power. But that can be in a positive and negative sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u76	This is the second time I've asked a question and not been listened to. This is not a dynamic explanation. It's static. There's that 3% in there. That 1.5% is based on the 3%. I do not think this is a third interruption. I just want to know what happens if that 3% isn't there. It has not happened in recent years. One more time, I'll just ask the question. In that 3%, the 1.5% is taken into account. What if I'm one of the two people in that family with the $30,000 and if that 3% salary increase doesn't happen this year? Then what's left of your story?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u77	I think this is a very nice discussion, but I think it is a bit off the record. I made my comments on the figures. We have also seen that DNB has indicated that salaries are being increased. I think it is quite a discussion in The Hague to talk about this in this way. Eventually, it's about what people feel in the wallet. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u78	Finally, Mr Edgar Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u79	Haha. That's good. The PVV who deals with a discussion in The Hague, while the VVD has invented it. That's good. Let me ask you a different question. Do you accept my challenge? Will you take my bet? In a few months' time, shall we look at what is left of that 1.5%? Are we betting on a case of beer here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u80	Oh. Good. Mrs. Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u81	I have just indicated that the CPB calculations indicate a direction and that they do not offer any guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u82	She's not taking my bet, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u83	No, that's enough, Mr. Edgar Mulder. Mrs. Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u84	So I've already indicated that. The same applies to the Nibud figures. That, too, is an indication. This will enable you to assess at global level the consequences of the measures taken by this cabinet. Mr Mulder must also acknowledge that. I have faith in the CPB and in the calculations. In my opinion, the way in which they are created is still the best way. This shows that there is an average increase of 1.5%, with all the comments I have already made. Then I come to an attractive locational climate. In order to ensure that not only next year, but also in ten years' time, jobs are still being created, our climate of establishment is important, not as an end in itself, but in order to create jobs and growth, which will enable people to earn a living and in future we will also have money for good care, safety and education. We need these companies, for jobs, but above all for the collective provision that we all consider important. From SMEs to start-up, from multinational to family business, we need them to thrive on the economy. That is why we invest in education and infrastructure. We will reduce the tax on profits for small and large companies, abolish the tax on dividends and introduce additional measures for SMEs in addition to the government agreement. I mention the 100 million structural to reduce the burden on labour, including the cost of work, and a reduction in the increase in the box 2 rate. We are going to discuss this at length in the Tax Plan. These measures are not all popular, but they are needed. The VVD does not run away from the responsibility to take measures that may not be so popular. In addition to the tax proposals, the proposals that make it easier for SMEs to take on people are also important. This concerns the earlier and easier hiring of staff by shortening the payment of wages after illness, increasing the possibilities for flexible contracts in certain sectors, simplifying the right of dismissal and broadening the probationary period, as well as resolving thezzp problem of the DBA Act. The VVD also calls on the cabinet to speed up these proposals. We are curious when we can expect it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u85	I'm not necessarily against unpopular measures. You should be able to take it as a politician. You gotta have guts for that, but I'm against stupid measures. I imagine that Mrs De Vries too will follow the debate in England on Unilever with interest. Has she also noticed that the dividend tax does not play any role in the UK shareholders?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u86	I think Mr Snels and I share the view that we are against stupid measures. We shouldn't have that either. We must take sensible measures now and in the future. Of course, we're seeing the developments around Unilever. There are reports on this in the media, but I really want to broaden the scope of this issue. We see a lot of developments in our environment. It's not just the Brexit, we're also seeing changes in the tax systems in America. I think that we should also be prepared to take measures that may not be popular now, but which we do think are necessary to keep companies here in the future and to attract new companies here. That's what we do for jobs for the people of this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u87	I know this general story by now and the arguments differ every time. I think all the arguments have been broken over and over again over the past year. It has no effect on the capital market. It has no impact on investment and employment. Head offices have hardly any effect. Now it appears that even the last argument that remained was that Unilever's shareholders in London would want to get rid of the dividend tax and that the company would then come to the Netherlands without knocking. It's not true! Then you cannot insist that the dividend tax is an important measure that we must take.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u88	I believe that the decision-making process is yet to take place. I have just indicated that we are also taking this measure in a broader perspective, for the Netherlands and for those jobs in the Netherlands. I hear GroenLinks often say that headquarters don't matter at all here, but I think it's important that you have decision-making centres in an area. I myself live in the North of the Netherlands. We also had a period when a lot of head offices left, and then it was just fighting, really fighting, to keep those jobs there. I don't want me to have to say in the future, when decisions are made and companies leave, "we didn't do anything at all. We didn't want to do anything."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u89	Mr Snels, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u90	My point is correct, and Mrs De Vries does not go into that, that in order to get Unilever's head office to Rotterdam, the abolition of the dividend tax for those shareholders has no role to play! It's about the protection structures. That is a very different debate that is taking place within the company and with its shareholders. It's like the cabinet and the VVD are living on another planet!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u91	I don't live on another planet. I think the locational climate is important here. You yourself have put forward proposals for this, and I am pleased that you are also aware that this is important. We are still different about the type of measure we have to take, but you are focusing on that one company all the time. I have seen it really wider, also in the context of all the international developments that are taking place: the Brexit, the American change in the tax system, the trade wars that are threatening. So I really want to place this wider.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u92	I almost get a chunk of it down my throat: the VVD that fights for employment here! I see myself standing here four or five years ago when 77.000 people went out because of cuts in health care and VVD Minister Schippers said: yes, but care is not an employment project! At that time, the arguments were very different. Then 77 000 jobs disappeared because of a cut of 600 million, and now we have to spend 2 billion for how many jobs, Mrs De Vries?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u93	I think this is a little apple-comparing with pears. Look, we have had many discussions about the fact that we have had to take difficult measures in the past in the economic crisis. I have just explained why we felt that these measures were necessary. There was indeed a need to cut back in the public sector at the time. That is why we want to invest in it again. What exactly does that do with the number of jobs is not always to cut with scissors, but I can see that we simply need these big companies. We also need small businesses. The SMEs that are located in the vicinity of these large companies understand very well that they also have an interest in being a supplier, in catering, in being able to work as a cleaning company, in having a taxi driver's job. I think you should have that total picture and therefore just give the total palette to companies in the Netherlands a good place.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u94	The problem here is precisely that Mrs De Vries of the VVD sees healthcare and employment in multinational companies as apples and pears. The disdain of the VVD for people who work in care, for the classroom or in safety is appalling. Sandwiches are also ordered there. Taxi transport is also needed there. Also around a prison or a large healthcare institution, there is a lot of activity very important for the local economy. But the fact that you can easily get it out of there and that you have a lot of...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u95	And you're asking?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u96	The fact that you can get it out of there, while you give away 2 billion without guaranteeing how many jobs that will create... That is, I say to the VVD, not a good measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u97	I think that the conclusions which Mrs Leijten has now drawn go a little far. I started in my story with that public sector. I started with the investments that we now want to make extra in the care, with the extra investments in the defense, with the extra investments in the police, with the extra investment in education. I've just started the public sector. But I think that we also simply need the market sector, business and businesses in the market sector. Because if we want to maintain these facilities in the future, we simply need those companies as well. We need those companies to make sure that we can make those facilities happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u98	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u99	We have waited a long time for the arguments for abolishing the dividend tax and for the guarantee that it would lead to jobs. They were supposed to join the bill, but they didn't come. The Council of State asked for additional support. And here it comes: the major shareholder is blackmailing us by threatening to remove the head office. Is that really the argument for abolishing the dividend tax? Then I know that if we invest that 2 billion in employment, in health care, in safety and in classroom people, that money will be much more profitable and that it will be much more true to our own internal economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u100	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u101	Well, blackmail is never an argument for taking a measure. I have just explained why we consider this measure important, in addition to the reduction of the burden we want and the investment we want in health, education and safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u102	In VVD language blackmail is "pressed" but that seems a bit alike. I would like to go back to the beginning of Mrs De Vries' block. Did I hear her say to Mr. Mulder, "Do you have any more faith in that institution of CPB?" Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u103	I have indicated that we have an independent body, the Central Planning Bureau, which makes calculations. As far as I am concerned, the CPB's calculations of purchasing power are still the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u104	Well, CPB said, first of all, important institute: there are no effects of abolishing the dividend tax. How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u105	For this, too, you must mention the full text written down by the Central Planning Office. The text on the dividend tax also stated that it might be possible for it to be good for the business environment. You must therefore take with you the full text of the Central Planning Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u106	So if I conclude it correctly, you say: I am assuming the purchasing power cards of the best institution we have, namely the Central Planning Office. There they have very smart people, scientists and so on. And when they give their opinion on abolishing the dividend tax and write that abolishing it has no effect or that those effects are nil, and that it is not wise to abolish that tax, Mrs De Vries says: yes, but it supported that it might contribute something, and that is why we are doing this. You can't sell this, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u107	In both cases, I look at what the Central Planning Bureau writes, as an indication of the things and measures we take. I have just said to you that you must take the full text with you. You're focusing on that one part now. Personally, I'm very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u108	Mrs De Vries, you spoke about the locational climate. All over Europe there is dividend tax, except in England. Our Prime Minister says: yes, but the Netherlands is a small country, so we need to abolish this dividend tax. Switzerland is also a small country, but it is the country with the highest dividend tax. In that small country there are many headquarters. That's a fact. You also know, Mrs De Vries, that it is only about Unilever, because that company has a dual, English-Dutch structure. That is where a choice has to be made. In other words, that proposal is simply aimed at Unilever. It has nothing to do with other countries that we have to compete with, because that is where the dividend tax comes in, and that is where it is so wise to keep it. That 2 billion is being used to abolish that tax. Isn't it much better to keep that 2 billion and spend it on charities, such as lowering the AOW age? And if you want to keep companies in the Netherlands, isn't it better to look at protection structures? In the coalition agreement...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u109	Mrs. Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u110	On the last point, I believe that something has been included in the coalition agreement. Each country has a different package with a different composition to create an attractive locational environment. You can invest in education and infrastructure. You should definitely do that, and that's what we're here for. But it also includes a tax package. I also think that everyone chooses their own mix. But if we look at all the international developments, we think that this is a good measure for the longer term, especially to ensure that we still have money in the future to keep all the facilities, which I believe are important to you too. Because we just need to make that economic cookie bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u111	Yes, but you're not answering the question. All of Europe, including America, has a high dividend tax. We already had the lowest. Why should it be abolished? That doesn't have anything to do with locational climate, does it? Companies do not leave the Netherlands because the dividend tax plays here, because all countries around us and America have it too. That's not an argument, is it? If you want to keep companies in the Netherlands that sentence I wanted to finish just then you should think more of protection structures. That whole Akzo thing had nothing to do with the dividend tax. Rutte says it was there too, but that's not true. If someone wants to take over Akzo, they'll do it even if there's a dividend tax here. Akzo was vulnerable because there was no protection structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u112	In fact, I come back to my previous answer: each country takes its own package of measures to maintain an attractive locational environment. If you want to talk specifically about Unilever, I have heard Mr Polman, the CEO, say that it is also an important element.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u113	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u114	You're not answering my question. I wasn't talking about Unilever right now. I was talking about whether the dividend tax is related to the locational environment. Not in my opinion, because every other country has her. We're actually the exception. We're doing a race to the bottom. My question was: if you want to keep Dutch companies in the Netherlands with all the jobs, shouldn't you think about protection structures? The cabinet does very little about that. Minister Kamp was very active, this minister was not at all; that is clear. Don't you think that's much more important? Because it is about the employment of the companies Unilever, Akzo, Shell and Philips in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u115	If we thought that was much more important, we would have taken that measure differently. I must honestly say that the impression is now being given as if there is no protection at all for Dutch companies. There always was. We have also had extensive debates on this. I think it is positive that you also think it is important that we at least work on the locational environment, but I do not think that we are going to be able to agree on the type of measures involved today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u116	I don't have that impression either. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u117	Good to mark that the VVD says that the CBS says about the effects, which it gives as a measure, that it might help but that it doesn't have to be, so it's actually a gamble. It's important to mark that. I would like to ask whether Mrs De Vries is prepared to put these uncertain effects away from the effects that the measure has on larger SMEs. The tax on dividends is higher, as has been shown. This is paid for, among other things, by abolishing the possibility of loans for the larger SMEs in particular. This concerns 23,000 SMEs. Is Mrs De Vries prepared to offset its impact on SMEs against the uncertain effect of abolishing the dividend tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u118	Let me begin with the observation of the Animal Party that it would be a gamble. I repeat the words of the General Political Reviews: it is also a gamble not to take any action. I think that sometimes we should also take unpopular measures which we believe will be good for the Netherlands and will have an effect in the longer term. Then I come to the point you made about SMEs. The costs due to the increase in dividend tax revenues are not borne by SMEs. That's just not right. That's what the big companies are gonna bring. I am also pleased that, in the August decision-making process for this budget, we were able to take a number of additional measures for SMEs: the 100 million to reduce the burden on labour, but also the reduction in the increase in the box 2 rate. I believe that these are important measures for SMEs.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u119	Once again, Mrs De Vries can name it as she pleases, but the words of the CBS are the words of the CBS: it is unclear what the effect is. That's a long shot. They can take the VVD; they have done it. I also maintain that one of the measures taken to finance the increase is to eliminate the possibility of interest loans for SMEs. I'm sorry she's not willing to take that effect, too, as someone who says she likes to see the full picture. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u120	In my view, I have indicated that the additional revenue needed to abolish the dividend tax will be increased by a smaller reduction in the higher rate of corporation tax. I also indicated that we simply continue to reduce the low VAT rate for SMEs, which is dear to us, to 16% in a number of steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u121	I was triggered by that word "total picture." I've been in the Chamber for almost five months and I'm doing the best I can to get the total picture around that dividend tax. I hear you saying you have it. I am not against and not in advance. But with what I have heard so far and also, when you talk about the General Political Reviews, with what I have heard from the Prime Minister over the past few weeks, I do not think I can get that overall picture out of the table. My total picture is nothing more than what my neighbor has, namely: it's about Shell and Unilever and that's about it, and that's 2 billion. My question is: can you give me the overall picture? Because I haven't heard it from anyone, but you have him, so you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u122	I think I said something about the overall picture. That was the overall picture of the location climate, to ensure that we get more jobs here and that more people can work and have a good job. So that was, as far as I'm concerned, the total picture. I know the dividend tax is not a popular measure. But it is a package of measures that we are taking. We are lowering corporate tax and we are taking a number of measures in the area of the labour market. That is what I meant by the overall picture we want to take care of, in addition to investment in education and infrastructure: that it is attractive for companies to settle here, but also to stay here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u123	I'm not getting anywhere. Of course I get the whole picture. But the total picture of the dividend tax is: if you don't do it, what does it cost, and if you do, what does it get? For me, it's still no more than you have a very small chance of Shell and Unilever leaving if we don't. If we do, you've got a chance. I'm pretty sure they'll stay. I understand I'm not getting any further at the moment. So my last hope is that the cabinet will explain the whole thing again just before the Tax Plan, otherwise I will really be on the route where we don't like it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u124	I'd be very sorry to hear that. I tried to explain. I know you have doubts. I cannot add any more to it than I have actually said. I think it will therefore be a bit of a repetition of moves, which I have just indicated. I'm sorry I couldn't convince you with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u125	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u126	Unfortunately, I tried again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u127	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u128	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to one of my last blocks: the responsible financial policy. The Netherlands is in good shape and the Millions note also shows this, but the Dutch economy is vulnerable to foreign disturbances and they are indeed lurking. I refer to trade wars, a hard Brexit, Turkey and the Turkish lira, but also Italy where the budget deficit is running, with all the risks. The Italian banks are full of bad loans and the banks are closely linked to the government. A recipe for accidents if the European Commission does not intervene, especially when we realise that the European Central Bank does not actually have monetary instruments anymore. If economic growth is disappointing, we can forget about additional burden relief and investment in healthcare, education and safety. That is why our own budget must be in order. As far as we are concerned, the European Commission must act with those countries that are not so close to European budgetary rules. We must choose responsible financial policy. We have to do what we have to do, but don't throw the money over the bar. This includes a budget surplus and lower and declining public debt. Mr. Chairman. I was just talking about collective burdens. These, of course, are closely linked to collective expenditure. Care costs are rising during this cabinet period, with around 16 billion euros. Without the care agreements recently concluded, that increase would be even higher. We are also seeing for the first time this year that social security expenditure in the state is higher than that in the care sector, while it is going well economically and unemployment is falling. Too many people are still on the sidelines while employers are calling for staff and there are still many vacancies open. If we also want to invest in security, defence, infrastructure and education in the future, spending on care and social security cannot grow indefinitely. This also applies to the space we need for load relief. Mr President, a number of questions to the Minister. What is the reason why social security expenditure continues to rise in good economic times? What will the Minister do with his colleagues from Health, Welfare and Sport and from Social Affairs and Employment to reduce expenditure during this cabinet period? What preparatory work is the government going to do to curb expenditure in the future? A little bit more technical, Mr. Chairman. It seems that the estimates of the care premium are regularly wrong. Why is that the case? Personally, I cannot explain that if the care premium is not as good as the estimate, it automatically leads to a burden increase. Is the Minister prepared to have another look at this? In our view, it is a punishment for reducing the cost of care. Lower care premiums provide room for other expenses, says the Minister. But we think it is better to bring this back into lower burdens for people. Mr President, concluding. There is a very nice budget with which we invest in care, safety, education and infrastructure. The charges are going down. It's a budget that makes people feel better. Let us combine these fine figures with the duty to make the Netherlands stronger and prepare for the future. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u129	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Snels. There are still interruptions, I see. You guys really need to walk to the interrupting microphone in time, so you don't have to run. Which one of you ran faster? Mr. Van Raan?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u130	I waited until the end, because I was waiting for what Mrs De Vries would say about what is called the greatest challenge of this moment, namely climate change. The economy's going well, that's how she started. Good figures, the fifth economy of Europe, says Rutte often. I wonder if Mrs De Vries knows how many globes it actually costs to maintain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u131	I am afraid I do not have the answer immediately, but I assume that Mr Van Raan...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u132	Yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u133	...is going to tell me that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u134	Mr President, Mrs De Vries has predictive powers, because I am going to tell you that. That's three and a half. So that can't be sustained. That is also what the broad concept of prosperity demonstrates. I was wondering if Mrs De Vries could give a little reflection on the fact that the way we have organized the economy now is not sustainable, and on how the VVD will tackle the biggest renovation that awaits us financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u135	I think we agree on something, let me start positively. We have, of course, agreed with this cabinet a number of ambitious objectives. That's gonna be quite a job. I think we should solve that problem, too. I think it's important that we solve that problem. We have to make sure that everyone can go through that, as they say so beautifully, so it's also affordable for people. But we just have to do that sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u136	Mr. Van Raan, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u137	Thank you, that's hopeful. Mrs De Vries did not say a word about it this time in the Financial Reviews. This means that this will probably happen next year. May I conclude with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u138	I believe that the climate agreement is being worked very hard. The cabinet also comes with a cabinet juice valuation, I understand. Then certain climate tables will also have to go back to work. I hope that will make more sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u139	Mrs De Vries gives a very cheerful picture of the Netherlands. If you mark that at this point, I think you do. But if you look at the future, I do have questions. When I go to the VVD-site, I see the following in a longread about all the choices that one makes: financial solidity is extremely important to us; just like every household in the Netherlands. That's how I know the VVD, and that's what I expect from her. If I now hear the Council of State say that he is concerned about public finances because even at this time of high economics it is actually not going well and that next year we are going to have a deficit of 0.4% of gross domestic product, then I have the feeling that it has to gnaw at the VVD. My question is: is that so?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u140	I absolutely agree with you that we need to ensure that public finances are in order and that we see how we can cope with the shocks and any setbacks in the future. I therefore believe that it is important that we have a budget surplus and that we ensure that the public debt goes down. In addition to the fact that I believe that this is a responsible policy, I would point out that we are going to invest in this budget in the matters that we consider to be very necessary and that we are making room for relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u141	Can I conclude that you say that it looks financially sound towards the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u142	I think I have just identified a number of risks myself. We certainly need to be constantly alert to the fact that we are going to pursue responsible financial policy for the future as well. But I do see a number of problems in the world, I have mentioned a number of them: trade war, Brexit, which can be of great influence. That is why I believe that we should work towards reducing public debt. We also need a budget surplus for this. I think we agree that we need to work on this for the future, certainly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u143	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u144	Then we agree that this is not happening at the moment. I look forward to the future, but it's not enough right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u145	I think that's a bit of an easy conclusion. I believe that we are now pursuing a responsible financial policy: investment and reduction of burdens. I think this is an important choice this cabinet is making. The VVD stands for this and fully supports it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u146	Thank you. I see that interruptions are now being used to draw general conclusions, but the debate has just begun. Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u147	Mr. Chairman. Is this Minister of Finance strict enough? And is the Secretary of State strict enough? These questions will be included in my contribution a number of times. Mr. Chairman. Ten years ago, Lehman Brothers went bankrupt. The financial crisis has changed the world since then. The damage is not only financial and economic in nature, but also social damage. There is a great deal of mistrust in society. Political polarisation has increased, as have differences of well-being and well-being between people. The restoration of this damage and the removal of mistrust is not only made up for by good economic growth rates. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps that is an additional reason to take prosperity seriously in the broad sense. The Court has adopted a motion on this subject and the Council of State also makes comments. Could the Minister make a commitment to a very specific question and, in the next Millions Note, explicitly address the results of the Broad Prosperity Monitor and how the envisaged policy will influence the indicators of broad prosperity? Mr. Chairman. The restoration of confidence must be about the deep awareness that we can only improve together and that we also need a strong European Union that shares risks and tackles challenges in the financial sector, security, migration and climate together. People in Europe are concerned about their socio-economic future because Europe does not sufficiently protect people from the excesses of globalisation. I want a strong Europe that contributes to shared prosperity and socio-economic security, a Europe that exists for people and not just for banks and large companies. An honest Europe must therefore ensure that large companies pay their fair share and tackle tax avoidance. We can do a lot more, said CPB Director Laura of Spirit this morning. I'd like a response. I would also like to mention minimum rates of income tax and a tax for tech giants who are now barely paying taxes. The Netherlands must stop the fiscal race to the bottom. This alone is a reason not to reduce the tax on profits for companies or not to abolish the tax on dividends. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch economy is in full swing. There is a positive output gap, say economists. However, the structural balance is significantly deteriorating. With minus 0.4%, we are close to the European border of 0.5%. The Minister states that we need bigger buffers in budgetary policy. The Council of State and the Central Planning Bureau also frowned on the eyebrows; Mr Stoffer already asked for them. The question is whether we should focus on the actual balance and the actual state debt. I think the rules of the Stability Pact are rather arbitrary. I look forward to the European evaluation of the budgetary rules, which will be on the agenda for next year. Can the Minister say anything about that? More important is what is happening structurally and what the sustainability of public finances is in the longer term. That's what I'm worried about. The gas decision was good. Groningen is getting perspective again, but last year I said it was not good to include the declining gas benefits in the expenditure framework. Cover has now been found in windfalls, for example in health care, but what if the expenditure there comes back to the expected level, for example if we are actually going to tackle staff shortages? Or what if the economy slows down by the Brexit or by Italy? Do we have to cut back on health care and education? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch economy is a boom-bust economy: because of our housing market, the large financial sector and the dependence on world trade, we go up and down faster than other European countries. The fact is that our budgetary policy is also pro-cyclical. We cut far too hard in bad times and give relief in good times. We've cut way too hard, says the former director of the Central Planning Bureau Coen Teulings. I'd like a response. We do not have any new figures on the sustainability balance, but they will not have improved. The estimate for the abolition of the dividend tax has increased, is uncertain and can even reach EUR 2.5 billion. I have not been able to fully study the letter, but I will certainly ask further questions about it tomorrow. But there's a chance it's going to go to 2.5 billion. I would like a response from the leaders: what does this mean for the budget? The windfalls in the expenditure framework have been used for gas benefits. What if we get setbacks? In climate policy, we get declining revenues from the gas tax and we get fewer revenues from car taxes. In the pension agreement, we will probably also get a little mince if we take the wishes of the social partners seriously. I am less impressed by the actual deficits which the Minister is calling for. For me, this shelf life is important. How do we deal with that in the different files? When are we gonna get a look at that? And is the Minister prepared to have new sustainability figures made? As far as I am concerned, if the Minister wants to be strict, it should be mainly about the sustainability of public finances. Mr. Chairman. Our budgetary policy is procyclical. I am well aware that we do not change that in our joint counter-budget with the SP and the Labour Party. I admit that. We are only changing the balance between the burden on large business and expenditure: a lower own risk, lower rents, 2 billion more for room for salaries and tackling the workload in the public sector. Does the Minister agree that we are dealing with a crisis in the public sector? And does the Minister agree that we should look at resolving the crisis in the public sector on a multiannual basis? The staff shortages and the workload are rising. I believe that we will have to invest on a multiannual basis in order to find a solution. What initiatives does the Cabinet take in this regard? The mechanism I fear is what I call 'the VVD mechanism': we are now reducing burdens, and if it is going to be economically disappointing, if we are to have any setbacks in the spending frameworks, we need to cut public services again. How are we gonna prevent that? Mr. Chairman. A strict Minister of Finance and a strict Secretary of State, as guardians of the Treasury, look closely at the basis of proposals. For this we have this year Article 3.1 of the new Compatibility Act. Objectives, effectiveness and efficiency: all three must be substantiated. For that we also have the operation Insight in quality. We want a better basis for spending taxpayers' money. We will be discussing this shortly, but the Court of Auditors has already paid attention to the supplementary item. The justification of funds allocated to departments varies widely and is more difficult for us as parliamentarians to follow. What's the Minister gonna do about it? He has already indicated that he is going to monitor Article 3.1. But that's a little too noncommittal for me. How's he gonna do that? When are we going to get information on this? How do we get the overview? Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the tax plans. Article 3.1 also applies to the Tax Plan and the justification for the abolition of the dividend tax. It hurts the eyes. There's no evidence to support it. Laura van Geest, director of the CPB, said this morning that it is not a logical measure. What about the shareholders in London? They are not interested in the dividend tax; they do not want protection structures. There really is no argument left. A few A4s which state that headquarters are important: that is the explanatory statement to the proposal. But if this is Article 3.1, objectives, effectiveness and efficiency, then all other rulers can start throwing money at us. Well, then forget about the background. As far as I am concerned, as guardian of Article 3.1, Finance itself sets the wrong example. It was the Minister of Finance himself who wrote in the foreword: "We have to handle taxpayers' money carefully." I'd like a response. Then on the legal sustainability with which tax attorneys and the cabinet also screen. I understand that the Attorney General has now written an opinion for the Supreme Court. If the signs do not cheat,........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... What can the Secretary of State say about that? And is the Secretary of State prepared to make that advice public soon? The Council of State already concluded that the measure was not well substantiated. I am considering tabling a motion to ask the Council of State once again for an opinion, explicitly on the abolition of dividend taxation. I think it's gonna be more urgent if we start seeing what the Attorney General recommends. Mr. Chairman. In extreme cases, the dividend tax also applies, albeit to a lesser extent, to box 1 measures and the increase in VAT. A lot of measures, lots of turns on buttons, a great budgetary interest, more expensive messages. But why, for what, for what? No effect on growth or employment, and disproportionate effects on income. No simplification of the system, while review is becoming increasingly urgent. "Working must pay," the cabinet says. "Longer burdens on labour," says the cabinet. But then you would expect labour supply to increase and employment to rise, and that is not happening or hardly happening. What is the purpose of all these measures? In dealing with the Tax Plan, we will go into the concrete measures themselves in more detail, but in this debate I really want, bearing in mind Article 3.1, to ask for purpose, effectiveness and efficiency. If I want to see stronger rulers somewhere, it's him. I would like to explain one example. The VVD, and especially the CDA through party leader Buma, were concerned about the acceptance of climate change. I share that concern. But what does the cabinet do in 2019? A shift between electricity and natural gas increases the energy charge in the first disc. Revenue: 200 million. The discs for the larger consumers remain the same. At the same time, the tax reduction for households is reduced by 400 million. For climate policy this is not effective: a CO effect of 0.1 megaton. And while households are going to pay more, this does not apply to large consumers. This is precisely where the problem of climate policy lies. Right here we see that large companies do want money and relief and subsidies, but they do not want to contribute to climate policy. There's no other way? As far as I'm concerned, it has to be different. And how can the CDA say with dry eyes to worry about acceptance, if it is already raising the energy bill for households by cutting the energy tax discount? Shall we call that the "Buma Fine" then? Look at the purchasing power effects of the 2019 package alone. In an exploration of the CPB, this means a negative effect of 0.6% for those on lower incomes, and 0.2% for higher incomes. In the Mrs's report, this has been flattened to 0.4% for everyone through inflation. There's another way to do this. Can we not raise the rates in the higher discs slightly for larger consumers and thus reverse the cut in the energy discount? We have not yet started on climate policy, or the cabinet is already making the wrong choices. And do the rulers agree with me that a robust and just climate policy is only possible if we spare people and allow the polluters to pay? Mr. Chairman. The charges, the groceries, the rents, the energy bill goes up. Especially the latter two are not well in the purchasing power of the Central Planning Bureau, while the focus on income policy via income tax runs against its borders. That's what the Council of State says. Non-use for the surcharges and silvering problems at tax discounts. Is this not an additional reason to speed up a real tax review, especially now that the CPB warns that the burden at the bottom of the income building of necessary climate policy may rise to 3.5% to 4% of disposable income? I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. Last week, an opposition-wide motion was voted down to propose alternatives to improving the locational climate. I found that extremely disappointing. It's like thinking's stopped. It's like all we've got is a locational climate and dividend tax, and nothing else happens. I have therefore made some proposals myself, a package aimed at innovation and cooperation between companies and knowledge institutions, and also tailored to SMEs, and which reverses the task of higher education. Funding comes mainly from a further limitation of the innovation box that we know is not effective when it comes to innovation. Mr President, may I present this package to you for colleagues and for the rulers, whose reaction I would like to hear? I hope that we will work together with our colleagues to see if we can implement these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u148	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Slootweg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A lot of people we talk to don't feel like our country's doing well. As my group chairman said during the General Political Reviews, we are living in changing times that are accompanied by uncertainty and concern, uncertainty and concern about the future of the Netherlands. The CDA wants a country that is now and in the future economically strong, an economy that helps us cope with the changes that are coming towards us and responds to demographic developments. Many plans in this budget are helping us on our way. Tax rates are falling, both for families and for entrepreneurs. More money is being allocated by the government to care, safety, education and municipalities. Moreover, not agreed in the coalition agreement, gas extraction is stopped as soon as possible. And then there's a decline in public debt. A good starting point for a country that we want to pass on financially and economically. Because we look at many indicators, we see that we have a strong economy. Low unemployment, strong business investment, good public services and well-educated people. But having a strong economy is not a matter of course. For a long time we thought that if we drove as much trade as possible and countries followed the rules of the game, everyone would benefit from it. But what are we supposed to conclude? Not all countries want to comply with the rules of free trade and many people do not feel that they are benefiting. Pensions that don't grow, people who don't get a job and a society that hardens. We see that more and more countries stand up for their own interests and put the rules of the game into their own hands. But if we want to be strong now and also in the future, the CDA thinks we should stand up for Dutch interests. In addition to focusing on a strong economy, we would like to simplify rules. Trust in people gets lost because we have often made our system of facilities so incredibly complicated. People find that many of the facilities that are intended for them are so complicated that they cannot make use of them. Small entrepreneurs are buried under tax or other measures they don't know what to do with. And that can't be the intention. Mr. Chairman. The CDA wants a strong economy, an economy that offers room to grow, but then we have to keep pace and prepare ourselves for possibly worse times. The CDA wants to invest in care, education and safety, but at the same time, with the current additional expenditure in the public sector, the edges are being explored. Even more spending means increasing the burden, putting the growth of the economy at risk now and in the future. Our economy is growing, but we're all living on the brink. If we want to maintain a strong economy in the longer term, how can we encourage families and businesses to pay off their debts? How does the Minister view this? Now debts are already a problem for many families. These are getting bigger when the interest rate starts to rise. Banks are now taking an initiative with the Redemption Action, but perhaps the Minister can strengthen this by encouraging companies and families to pay off debts in other areas as well. Does the Minister also consider that household and corporate debt is a potential barrier to the growth of our economy? And when it comes to threats to the growth of our economy, I would like to mention two more specific threats. I am thinking of Brexit, but also of Italian budgetary policy. Because it has not become a hard or soft, but a chaotic Brexit. We see the actions of this cabinet in the fields of justice, customs and NVWA. But because of a chaotic Brexit is other ministries also being considered, such as Economic Affairs and Social Affairs and Employment? Think, for example, of the possible impact of a Brexit on the fisheries sector. Any action on this? Not only England is chaotic, but Italy too. Minister Hoekstra came back darker on Monday than he went to the euro summit. Italy is going after Greece, so I ask the Minister. And what are the lessons we learned from the Greek crisis? Are we prepared for a possible fall of Rome? And does the Minister share that with this Italian budget we really cannot continue in the banking union? Mr. Chairman. A strong economy offers the opportunity to invest in good care, education and safety. But for this to happen, the Empire must be able to count on the collection of taxes. That's not always easy. That's what the problems surrounding the inheritance tax and the gift tax teach us. The ICT problems at the Tax Administration cause disappointing revenues in 2018 and 2019. The CDA has already asked whether, in addition to the inheritance and gift tax, other taxes have problems. For example, the vulnerability of corporate taxation has already been mentioned. What's the status there? And can't we avoid many problems by making the system simpler? We are now taking an important step in this by moving towards a two-disk tariff system. But we're not there yet. Many tax rules and exceptions sometimes make life unnecessarily difficult for citizens. That is why we find the recommendations of the European tax expert, the European Fiscal Board, so interesting. In a report, this has made a number of recommendations for actually all tax administrations in Europe. One of the valuable advice is to simplify the complex system of tax regulation. Is this recommendation, for example, part of the Quality Insight Programme? Speaking of taxes, I have a single question when it comes to abolishing the dividend tax. Because the economy is doing well, the net abolition of the dividend tax costs EUR 1.9 billion instead of EUR 1.4 billion. The budgetary rules require that this 500 million be compensated. But doesn't this rule now ensure that the revenue framework has a cyclical effect? And how does that relate to the trend in fiscal policy, where we want to give these shocks a place as little as possible? A strong economy is also a sustainable economy. Now is the time to start with green bonds. I think Mr Nijboer still wants to address the previous point, don't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u150	I thought that's what I was talking about, Mr. Slootweg. You were still working on a sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u151	Yeah, in the block of sustainability. I'd like to wrap that up first. I'll have completed the revenue side by myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u152	Yeah, I'd do that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u153	A strong economy is also a sustainable economy. Now is the time to start with green bonds. Green bonds can help with the climate forecast. By involving investors in sustainable investments in, for example, the Climate Fund or the Delta Fund. Countries such as France and Belgium have already preceded us. For example, the largest pension fund in the Netherlands, the ABP, already invests in Belgian green bonds. Together with the Christian Union, we call for this to be done quickly. During the debate on the Spring Paper, the Minister indicated that the research phase is over, but we would like to know when we can expect the first issue of Dutch green bonds.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u154	Mr Slootweg of the CDA was concerned about economic policy. Mr Snels did just that in his fine macro-economic speech. Then I would like to tell him: why does he choose to support a 5 billion reduction in charges for companies that are already doing very well? If you want to do something, then you are not going to look in the technique of budgetary rules to see if you can abolish that dividend tax a little more cheaply, but then you are questioning it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u155	If you look at the package we offer, we invest in the public sector, in education, care and safety. We reduce the burden, both for families and businesses, and also for companies, because a strong economy really depends on a good and strong business. That's my plea all the time, isn't it? In this sense, we must ensure competitive tariffs and create good conditions for business to undertake.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u156	I do not like to compliment Mr Wilders, but he had the figures in the General Political Reviews ready. He said that the profits of these companies have increased by tens of billions and wages are lagging behind. He was right about that. And what you should not do, certainly not in a business cycle, is reduce taxes, especially for large businesses, by billions. So I don't get it at all. Mr Slootweg first makes a speech on economic policy. I share that and then supports that we go down on the journey, that we abolish the dividend tax and push the big companies even further, while they are only buying shares.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u157	I believe that within the company's burden package, we are making a real shift. We are committed to a greening in the coming period. That's one. The second point is that if you look at the longer term share of the Vpb, for example from 1995 to the present, it will fluctuate slightly. However, in 1995, the share of Vpb in total tax revenue was about the same as today. I think it was even a little less. So you can't say that compared to when we actually expect less from business to contribute to our public services.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u158	Actually, I have only one question about dividend taxation. What exactly is the position of the CDA? We hear from the Christian Union and from D66 that it's a melon, that they don't like it or that it wasn't their idea. We don't actually hear from the CDA. I have a very strong feeling that the CDA actually thinks that the abolition of the dividend tax is a good proposal. I refer to history, to the lobby that has taken place, and note that Balkenende had already promised something about it. Is my assessment that the VVD and the CDA in this coalition actually go hand in hand with abolishing the dividend tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u159	This is, I think, the weighting of the word "good." I would like to use my own words: do I think it is a wise decision? I think it's a wise decision. Also here is the question: do I want to have a strong economy? Then I think it is very important that large companies have a place here too. When it comes to whether it is a good proposal, I usually use that qualification for other things. But we think it is a wise decision to make the Netherlands an attractive location. Mr. Chairman. After the revenue the expenses. How does it address the challenges of the future, demographic developments?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u160	Mr Slootweg now continues with the expenditure. I've got a little bit of work to do on the charges. I was talking about the Buma Fine. How does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u161	Of course, it's always nice to frame a sort of word. We usually talk about standards. Then we're talking about the beaming standard, but I understand we're going to the Buma Fine now. I believe that Mr Snels's point is as follows. Do you share GroenLinks' concern that if we look at climate change in a moment, it is not just a challenge to bring about a transition in our economy, but that it is also about the question: how does this transition end up with people? I believe that Mr Buma gave a very clear picture of this in Elsevier. He thinks you can't put this down mostly with the people with the smallest scholarship.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u162	That is exactly what the cabinet is doing now, without any climate measures, because that agreement still needs to be reached. While Mr Slootweg says: we are abolishing the dividend tax and we are reducing the Vpb, because they may be paying at higher energy taxes. That is not happening yet, but we are already going to increase the energy bill for people. You know, when you worry about acceptance, I don't understand the story of the CDA anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u163	The moment you make your point about the energy tax, I think you are taking one element out of it, in a total series where purchasing power is concerned. If you are going to link that to new proposals that are still to be made in the context of the climate tables, then you know at least what the position of the CDA is: that we want to see if it is easily portable for the people. The point for 2019 is: are we coming to the right and balanced purchasing power picture? A lot of things are important here. This is one element in which you want to pursue income policy. I do not think that this is so important in this respect, as I see that we are reducing the burden on people in the overall burden package.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u164	Mr Snels, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u165	I have already indicated that the CPB itself also says that these purchasing power plates are not right, are not good, and that it will be even more difficult for the longer term because of these energy measures. Can I now tell Mr Slootweg the following? If I promise him never to use the term "Buma Fine" again, is he open to looking at the Tax Plan to see if we can make alternative proposals so that we can reverse that cut, that cut on that energy bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u166	Remarkable that the opposition says: you are being blackmailed by Shell and Unilever, and then they come up with such blackmail. No, when it comes to the energy tax, I really want to link it to the total purchasing power. I think that, especially with what is going to happen after the climate agreements, we need to see if we have a good picture of all things. I believe that I also supported Mr Snels yesterday: let us see what information we can get there. But when I look at the picture of 2019, I think that this creates a balanced purchasing power picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u167	Very briefly, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u168	Finally, the conclusion is that it is a bit hypocritical of the CDA to worry about acceptance, yet secretly increasing the energy bill for households. I find that disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u169	Another conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u170	At the moment when there is a conclusion given somewhere and the word 'hypocrite' is mentioned, I think I can also respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u171	Is this the new way of debating the conclusions to be drawn? Those really belong for the second ter... Yes, very annoying Mrs. Leijten, you'll never be part of that, will you? No... Those are really meant for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u172	I think that I am now being blamed for 'hypocrite' and I think that I am at least there...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u173	Yes, you may respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u174	... may say that I really do not recognize myself in that, because we have taken as our starting point that we want to see what the overall picture of purchasing power is. There is one element unpacked and I find it very easy to use the word "hypocrite" for that. I really don't recognize myself in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u175	No, you said that. Mr. Edgar Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u176	In the beginning my colleague came up with the story that the CDA wanted to stand up for the Netherlands. Now I don't see how you stand up for the Netherlands when you bring 4 billion to Africa, give 2 billion to foreign shareholders and almost 1 billion in expert fees, but so be it. Let me now turn to those investments you want to make in the so-called climate. You've all signed the Climate Code. The rates go up enormously: €150 for energy tax, €200 for the rates themselves. All the people sitting at the tables indicate that this is just the beginning, that it is only a very small part. And it is also known that these burdens fall mainly at the lower income. The higher incomes have the solar panels and they get the subsidies and the lower income can pay that. My question to my colleague is: do you think that's fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u177	In my opinion, Mr Buma's interview in Elsevier this summer gave the warning that Mr Mulder is now putting in a question. We have to stop this from happening. We must first see what is going to be in the climate agreements. Then it is our job as politicians to ensure that this really gets support in our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u178	That is a very clear statement. So if the costs increase, especially for lower incomes, the CDA in this cabinet will never, ever sign.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u179	I believe that this is a form of words that I have not spoken in this way. I didn't say never, never. The point is that there is going to be a package that can be carried by the population. We'll have to know the plans for that first. Or Mr. Mulder needs to know something I don't know yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u180	Hence my question: if these plans work out in such a way that it is bad for the population, will the CDA never sign? That's just a question. You could answer that. That question corresponds to my question whether you will accept my challenge: a case of beer for that 1.5%. I can't get an answer to that either. I think it's a little unclear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u181	We'll keep those crates of beer from you!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u182	I think he really wants a case of beer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u183	Surely it is not the case that Mr Mulder has shares in Heineken?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u184	It can be Grolsch, can't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u185	Grolsch can, too. I just heard Mr Slootweg make a rather curious remark when it comes to the tax burden for citizens and for businesses. Do I understand why you are saying that the same thing is still being picked up in absolute terms, and that is why it is just?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u186	No, it was about the point that Mr Nijboer made: if you look now, isn't it true that citizens are now contributing more to the financing of our public services than companies? I have taken the year 1995 as the starting point. Let me say it by heart, but I think that around 8% was collected through corporation tax for the financing of public services. Now it's 8.3% of the total. In any case, I have tried to point out that the fact that companies are avoiding this and that it is increasingly reaching citizens is not correct in my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u187	But now KPMG has done research on that. It said that companies paid an average of 33% on profits in taxes in 2000. In 2018, that's only 24%. And for citizens, it has risen by 6% from 2008 to today. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u188	I'm really handling CPB records. I don't know where it came from. Maybe there are more companies. Although the corporate tax rate was higher at the time, we now have more companies, which means more is collected through companies. So you need to see what the dynamics in the economy are. But if you look at corporation tax for a second and look at what was the share of tax revenue collected in 1995 and compare it to now, you can see that it is fluctuating, but not that it is less than before.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u189	Finally, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u190	That's a really bad picture. Over the past 15 to 18 years, we have seen companies paying less and less taxes, because they are also being facilitated to some extent to avoid doing so. The Netherlands is also very involved in this. As a result, citizens have to pay more and more taxes, because we want to have good public services with each other. If you don't recognize that picture, I'm gonna lose my way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u191	That is a shame, but I would just look at the picture. I think it has been addressed in one of the questions in the Millions Note, which outlines this picture. Then it may not be back in 15 years, but it will be back in 23 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u192	I wonder whether Mr Slootweg is still addressing the current climate injustice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u193	Mr. Slootweg, how far along are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u194	The climate injustice? In what context? I think I just need a little more text from Mrs Leijten to put the question. Then I can tell you if I've treated this or if I can't get to it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u195	In fact, there is not a moment that passes unless I see your party leader, Mr Buma, saying that he is so terrified of how the climate bill is going to come down and that there should be support for that in the households. But then I wonder why the CDA is signing up for a budget in which the already unequal account of households contributes significantly more to pollution than the companies that pollute.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Does the CDA think that's fair and that's building support?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u196	In my view, we really need to distinguish between a number of elements in this. If we look at the overall package in the coalition agreement, we see that companies, including companies that pollute, are going to pay much more for it in the future. Their burdens will be increased. In this sense, I believe that climate change is indeed being addressed to the future. That's what's going on with the companies. We're about to get the climate agreements. To this end, the warning must be given to ensure that whatever it is that comes with it can be carried by the population. So I see this as separate issues in that sense. First of all, it's about today's intention. I look not only at 2019, but also at the entire cabinet period. This includes an environmental package, which also increases the burden on companies that pollute more. On the other hand, there will be additional climate forecasts. Some of them are likely to reach the citizens, but we have indicated that, if they do so, citizens should always continue to have this support among the population, either on the left or on the right, after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u197	Already, households are paying 2.8 billion too much and companies are paying 1.8 billion too little when you look at who exactly pollutes. Next year 800 million will go to households and 500 million to businesses. That unequal account just keeps putting the CDA down. On this point, I asked what is fair about it and how the CDA is thereby increasing the level of support for climate or energy change at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u198	I have already indicated that we need to look not only at the plans for next year, but also at the plans for subsequent years. Then you really see a shift, in the sense that business is going to pay more. In addition, we are very dependent on the plans of the climate tables. In this context, we have already indicated what we believe to be important for the future, namely that this is being borne by the population.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u199	It is really unbelievable if Buma indicates in every debate that the bill should be distributed fairly. However, we are talking about the future, because the bill is now being placed mainly on households. If the CDA really believes that there should be justice when it comes to climate policy, then the energy bill should not be placed in full or in particular with households. Then that bill must be distributed fairly. That is not the case now. Also next year, households will pay 300 million more than companies. That's not fair. So the CDA is working on a masquerade. The CDA is concerned about the future, but at the moment the account is nicely deposited with the households.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u200	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u201	You allow a lot, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u202	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u203	Shall I ask a question then? By the way, I have already put it twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u204	Does Mr Slootweg agree with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u205	I have asked Mr Slootweg twice what is fair about the fact that the account will be returned to the households next year. He doesn't answer that. Well, then, I'm sure I'll find that the CDA's concerns are a masquerade.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u206	Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u207	No, it's not. I think I have tried to indicate, but perhaps that is not the answer Mrs Leijten wants to hear, or perhaps she makes other considerations, that we are going to shift the account, but that this is happening in time. However, we are not going to tackle this unfair relationship between citizens and businesses, as Mrs Leijten puts it, as early as 2019...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u208	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u209	That shift is going to get a place in the next cabinet period. Mr. Chairman. After the revenue the expenses. How do we focus on the challenge of the future? How can spending respond to demographic developments and strengthen our economy? For example, it is remarkable that, with such a low unemployment rate, we spend the most on social security. We can see that demographic changes also play a role here when we look at the increasing ageing population. Half of social security expenditure goes to the AOW. We read that employers and trade unions might want to get rid of the current link between the AOW and life expectancy. Can a pension agreement still affect the 2019 budget? What are the budgetary rules that will then apply? Then I come to an indigestible point for the CDA. Seniors are increasingly confronted with technological developments with which they are not familiar. That brings with it great uncertainty. The governments often add a little to it by making our system so complicated that many older people do not apply for a rent and care allowance. One in six households with 55-plussers who are entitled to it does not use the rent allowance and one in ten does not apply for a care allowance. The cause: people do not know the arrangements or they find it terribly complicated digitally. The CDA regrets that these financial arrangements are not being used. Not everyone is financially and digitally resilient. We therefore call for government campaigns to reach more people. We also wonder whether there are opportunities for proactively approaching older people, together with older people's organisations and municipalities, who do not make use of these bonuses. What are the possibilities for a smart linking of files from the Social Insurance Bank and the Tax Administration? Could that be a solution? The CDA also has many questions about the low-income advantage, the LIV. We hear that this measure is far too complicated for small businesses. Is it true that LIV mainly reaches large and profitable retail businesses? Does the measure still promote the initial objective of the employment rate of people with Is it not time to evaluate the LIV, for example in the framework of the Quality Insight Programme? Mr. Chairman. Health care is the main concern of Dutch people. Because of the ageing population people live longer, they want to stay home longer and we also have more single-person households. What does that mean for the cost of care, also for the future? The CDA is pleased that the WRR and the SER are going to conduct a study on the development of healthcare expenditure. It is good that we have concluded main line agreements. Cooperation with the sector, the healthcare providers, is necessary in order to continue to provide quality care at an affordable price. But what about the growth of healthcare expenditure? The CPB recently presented a report that could result in a lot of expenditure being higher than is currently expected for the long term. Is this true? Then there are two things of which we want to understand the consequences. Many of the windfalls in the Budgetary Framework Care are due to windfalls in the medicine and tools and the ggz. But how permanent are these windfalls, these understeppings? Take the medicines now. Are these shortcomings not mainly due to the lack of medicines? In 2010, there were fewer than 200 medicines that were in short supply. In 2017, this increased to 732 medicines. The reason is that the drug price on the Dutch market is so low that relatively cheap drugs disappear. Is it true that medicines are delivered to countries like Germany, which are willing to pay a much higher price than they are offered for sale in the Netherlands? At the ggz we see on the one hand failures, but on the other hand longer waiting lists. Isn't it crazy that we have drug shortages and waiting lists ggz, and on the other hand we can't make up the intended money? Isn't something really wrong? Mr. Chairman. We can only maintain a strong economy by investing in our infrastructure, including roads and rail. Money is also needed for the maintenance and restoration of bridges and roads. We are also pleased with the extra money for Defence: the world has rapidly become more unstable. However, it is not possible to spend the extra money directly. That is why these ministries have more opportunities to pass that money on to the future. That is a sensible decision, given the long duration of the projects in both ministries. The CDA considers it essential that the extra money remains available to better respond to the challenges of the future. Safety is important now and in the future. A strong economy makes it possible for Groningers to live safely in their surroundings. The decision to reduce the extraction of gas to zero is a historic decision that puts the safety of Groningers first. Do the current reserved funds in the supplementary item provide sufficient coverage for the agreements to be made with the region on strengthening and the future perspective Groningen? And is it true that the phasing-out path of gas extraction is only covered until 2023? Should the minister's successor look for new money after 2023? SMEs will always be the backbone of a strong economy. 100 million will be available for reducing labour costs for SMEs, but how are entrepreneurs going to notice this? Will the flexibility of the cost of work be envisaged? The CDA wants the money to be used effectively and purposefully to reduce labour costs, and that small entrepreneurs are going to notice that. And are we looking at the simplicity of regulation and implementation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u210	I thought it was a very fair comment with regard to Groningen. In spring notes, 200 million a year was earmarked for the future of Groningen and economic development, and now 100 million suddenly. Was Mr Slootweg as surprised about that as I am? And does he really think that this commitment of the cabinet, that promise to Groningen of 200 million a year in the years to come, should be kept?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u211	I believe that I am at a somewhat more asking stage than Mr Nijboer is. Mr Nijboer has already concluded that the money is no longer available. I haven't been able to find it either, so I'd really like to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u212	In the written questions the cabinet actually says: it was 200 million and it will be 100 million. But it was really hidden, so I get this question. But maybe we'll get back to this tomorrow. Is Mr Slootweg going to say anything about living? If so, I'll hold off on asking my next question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u213	No, you have to make choices at some point, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u214	That's right, that's not a problem. Then I ask my question about living in the second part of my interruption, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u215	Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u216	Mr Buma made a big point of living, and a motion was also adopted by Mr Asscher, Mr Buma and Mr Zegers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u217	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u218	There is a fund for housing, for social housing in shrinking areas and in certain other areas in the Netherlands. That fund was discontinued in July. We would like to fill that fund again. Has Mr Slootweg thought about how we can complete that motion? And is he, like me, also looking at the 2.9 billion in expenditure that the budget says can be made this year, but which is now in danger of draining into public debt while we have a fund that is empty?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u219	You've heard the beginning of my story. That is about money at macro level. I believe that this cabinet has an ambitious investment agenda. I believe that I also speak after many economists when I say that it is going towards expansionary policy. You propose to put extra money into this by doing something with convenient cash slides. That money's really being spent. I am very afraid that if we go there again into the rules of the game, there will be another shortage. So I don't see anything directly in that solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u220	The remarkable thing about the 2018 budget is that we have been told in the spring note: we are just going to achieve our goals. And it was said in August: no, there is actually 2.9 billion left, when we did promise that money to the people. And this applies across the board, i.e. to nurses, to general practitioners, to education. It is also known that there is underutilization at the Department of Defense, at Infrastructure, at the Tax Office. They say we're not gonna make it, we promised those investments, but we're not gonna do anything about it to make it. I can imagine the CDA saying: all these areas are of great concern to us, so why don't you try that again? This also applies to housing; in this area there is a motion for a resolution. Don't go spending that money like a savage, but don't just sit around, leave the money on the shelf and just don't do anything about it. That's kind of weird, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u221	I think we have put down very clear budgetary rules with which we play the game. I think this is important, especially in order to ensure that the finances are sound, and in order to be able to live up to the investment agenda that we all have. Whoa, there's another chairman. That's a big change all of a sudden, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u222	That just happened, yeah!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u223	You will no doubt want me to continue with my speech now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u224	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u225	A strong economy requires well-educated people, also in order to respond to change in the future. We need an insight into how the student debt is dealt with. We want to prevent the bill from reaching a future generation. This study debt has risen significantly in recent years, to nearly 20 billion in 2017. That's a lot of money. We know that this amount of student debt will increase enormously in the coming years. What are the budgetary rules when, for example by raising interest rates, more study debt has to be written off than expected? Does that mean, for example, additional cuts in education? Finally, we understood that the Minister of Education wants to maximise the number of credits a student has to obtain at least. What are the financial consequences of this? If there are, does this mean that coverage should be sought within the budget of OCW? Mr President, in conclusion. We need to become more aware of the changes that we are facing in the coming years, because we are making decisions not only for 2019, but also for the future of our country. We have to look beyond the delusion of the day, for generations after us. Because of the huge changes people feel uncertain and people are concerned, because despite this cabinet investing heavily in security, care and education and despite the growth of the economy, there are still too many people who do not notice that they are taking advantage of the strength of our economy. As far as the CDA is concerned, there is an additional task for this cabinet. It is not just a question of good economic figures, but also of how we deal with them. I am thinking here of the tax system, the elderly, care but also of SMEs. Let's focus on a strong economy with simple rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u226	Nice words from the CDA. I certainly liked that conclusion, those simple rules, but above all that strong economy. Actually, I was expecting something. I thought maybe he's not quite done yet. I read in the coalition agreement the following: "The many positive forces in the society of citizens, associations and communities of faith deserve space." Very warm words; they fit perfectly in that context. But what do I see to my dismay now coming from the cabinet, to which the CDA is a part? A reduction in the allowance, i.e. no longer at the highest rate. My specific question is: does the CDA agree and does she agree that more than 20 million is being cut off from the donations?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u227	In my view, this is precisely one of the points where things often go wrong in our system. At some point we make the agreement to just say: there is one rate to deduct business. Every time we come up with changes: just this again, just that again. That makes our system complex and so unclear. I therefore believe that we have made a very clear choice to reduce the burden. This is part of that, including the gifts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u228	So you're in favour of this cut on the donation deduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u229	No, this isn't austerity. I really reject these words. We are making the system really easier. That means that everything is deducted at one rate and we do not make an exception for anything else. That makes our system really complicated. In fact, I think you are making it quite unnecessary for the Tax Administration to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u230	You look at it from the giver but not from the one where it ends up. If a giver gave €1,000 net, the charity ended up with €2,000. Now that is only €1,600, because that giver really isn't going to give any more; then he can't handle it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u231	We are talking about people in the highest rate, which means they have €100,000 or more. I understand that, at least, Mr Stoffer is very concerned about the purchasing power effects. But the simple fact is that one is dealing with much more at much lower rates, and this is a part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u232	Mr. Stoffer, very briefly, because this is the fourth time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u233	It's wonderful, I understand that the CDA is behind that cut on the 20 million-dollar grant deduction. The answer is clear: they say no, but they do. You don't agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u234	No, I really don't share this conclusion. Finally, this measure will ensure that the giver you are talking about and whose abdominal pain you have is someone who earns more than €100,000 just gets more money in his wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u235	This is what I'm fighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u236	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u237	What you're really not telling me is that I don't know if you're deliberately doing that, because I think you just know what that's like.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u238	I heard Mr Slootweg say that it is actually a great good thing that all deductions will be made at a low rate in the future. I know that the CDA has been defending for decades that the concept of income is a balance of income and expenditure, and that both income and expenditure must be treated progressively. This is...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u239	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u240	... a principled turn that the CDA takes. How can you defend that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u241	No, then you haven't followed much of the literature within the CDA in recent decades, and that's too bad. Since 2000, Mr Klink has actually already made this proposal. I do not remember, but perhaps I missed something, that Mr Van Rooijen said at that time that this was a huge break of principle with the past. I really don't see it that way. We wanted to simplify this system, and this is part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u242	I find it very interesting that you refer to a scientific agency, but you know as well as I do...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u243	It's not just a scientific agency, it's also...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u244	Shouldn't we be talking together? Mr Van Rooijen continues his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u245	You know as well as I do that the political leadership of a party ultimately determines what happens, not a report from a scientific agency. The CDA has been asking questions over the past few decades, I also sometimes advocated the maintenance of the existing system. And now, suddenly, in the coalition agreement, it is said that we are going through a line. That's my question. Then you should not call Mr Klink from your scientific office.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u246	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u247	From my point of view, this system has been in the electoral programmes since 2010. You were a member at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u248	No, Mr Sneller has the floor for his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u249	You should never discuss scientific offices with Mr Van Rooijen. My question concerns the Italian budget and the disappointment you expressed about it. You didn't link that to any further steps in the Banking Union. What exactly do you mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u250	If the risk of contagion is very high, then we can still maintain the Banking Union, I would very much like to know. Because Italy's economy is really much bigger than Greece's. I just really want to know what the implications are and if it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u251	There are now measures that have been agreed to further reduce the risks. I assume that we can continue to do so, including this Italian budget, which I am also concerned about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u252	Mr. Faster, I think there's a big difference after all. When we took these measures, I do not think we knew that Italy would behave so irresponsiblely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u253	But it is also necessary for banks to increase their buffers, including in Italy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u254	But not if we start financing the problems of other banks in other Member States. At least we don't feel like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u255	I think that's a whole different package. At least I hear Mr Slootweg in such a way that we can continue to reduce the risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u256	I would like to hear Mr Hoekstra's answers tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u257	Thank you, Mr. Slootweg. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u258	Mr. Chairman. Due to the gambling in the financial world with toxic loans, made possible by politics by the way, a global crisis arose in 2008. There have never been any measures in the past. Banks were nationalized. But the awareness of "never again" remained only for a moment. Because real measures to prevent a crisis have not been taken. In fact, now that we are out of the crisis, the debt mountain is higher than ever. These are not only the sovereign debt, but also the private debt, and certainly in our country: 240% of our gross domestic product. The inequality has grown. Today there was the news about 320,000 working poor. The public sector is on fire. This Minister of Finance is taking into account a new crisis. We have seen it in the pieces we have received: it can be a small one, a financial crisis, it can be a bit bigger, a debt crisis, and it can be a global crisis. But one thing that always comes out is more unemployment, cuts for ordinary people and additional debts. In other words, new crises are coming and what happens then is exactly the same recipe as the crisis we have just had. Even though we should come up with another medicine. You should actually say: if we already foresee a next crisis, then we are going to make sure that the moment is when we are going to reduce debt, write it off, strike it off. Then we're gonna get the elite caught, who in the last crisis just got richer. But none of that is in the Minister of Finance's plans. I ask him to make those plans and to present them to the International Monetary Fund next week. Is he willing to do that? We would like to see fewer risks to people's savings and payments. And we will come forward with concrete proposals within a week or two or three. That honour is not for me, but for my colleague Alkaya. The crisis opened up a good time, and especially for the VVD, to launch the attack on the public sector. And actually, it doesn't really matter what kind of economic tide it is. The VVD is always of less doing with each other and much more individually: "pay the bill yourself, we privatize important amenities." And with this neoliberal disease, you can see that the control of people and the democracy of all of us is being undermined in favour of multinational companies. The world is seen as one big trading market and globalisation is presented as a fact. The migration flow below and the climate changes are also seen as a kind of weather phenomenon. That neoliberal disease has long been analysed outside this Chamber as a dead end for us, as a earth, for the people, for democracy. But there are few people here who do not use their power to give more to the few who already have a lot of power and money. It is those representatives of the people who do not serve the public interest, but the elite. In the crisis, the people who could not flee paid the price for austerity measures. The tenant received a rent tax and exploding rents. The resident in the nursing home was obliged to move if he or she was not dead in time. I see the Minister of Finance watching, but that has happened and it is still happening. Fewer beds, fewer beds, fewer places to close is moving people if they're not dead in time. The student who wanted to go to college is now looking at a loan. He has a harder start to his future if he wants to buy a house. Whoever worked had an insecure contract. He could've gotten out of here in a minute. The teacher and the master got a fuller class, the nurse got more people on the route and more bureaucracy for the choices. If you're sick, you have a risk of your own. Everyone needs to work longer, especially those who can't afford to stop working sooner. A higher VAT was paid to everyone. Those are just a few of the measures that people get to choose. I can really make the list any longer. Now it's better, polonaise politics all around. There's such a beautiful picture of this finance minister with behind him the prime minister who grabs him, so "what a good job we've done." The polonaise is being deployed. But with the investments in the public sector, of which the CDA and the VVD, and probably also D66 and the Christian Union, are so proud, they are not yet making up for what has been lost. The public sector has actually been neglected and orphaned in recent years, but also by this cabinet. It's being played down. We would only make our money abroad. "We need a good locational environment for jobs." By saying that jobs are created by business and that standing in front of the classroom isn't worth anything, and working with disabled people is actually just parasitizing the economy, an incorrect representation of things is given. Two-thirds of our economy is internal. That is our SMEs, those are our healthcare institutions, who also order sandwiches and taxis, which also provide local economy. Because, as a cabinet, not only this cabinet, but also the past Cabinets, pretend that the money is only earned abroad, you neglect the public sector and you can cut it down hard. Last night there were more than 2,000 people on the Voorhout. They feel that, now that things are getting better, their wounds are not even healed but 2 billion is given to foreign shareholders and foreign treasury. Apart from the question of what happens to the many billions that are left and which go to the repayment of the sovereign debt, where you can ask yourself whether the stewardship is merely the redemption of public debt or not also the abandonment of a fine country to live in, a country in which young people born in a rented house and whose parents have a vocational training and earn a little less can get as far as someone born in Baarn as the son or daughter of a minister. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to defence, the SP makes the analysis: rather teachers than submarines and rather money to youth care than to the Joint Strike Fighter. We are looking at the additional investments in defence: this year a large billion has been added to the budget. The plans and the money have been approved by this Minister of Finance. It is very strange that it will not be published at all this year. Our soldiers have to buy the sweaters themselves and the bulletproof vests are over the date. No, but the money on the shelf for the JSF and the submarines, which we need for wars and which we don't really need, stays on the shelf. I can't explain it. Nor can I explain that the investment that would be made this year but cannot be made can be made in one year or two years' time. Year in, year out, I'm as a care spokesperson. That was me before I spokesperson finance ran into surpluses on the care framework: 1 billion, 2 billion, 700 million, 800 million. Over the past few years, it's been rough and rough. Every time I said, "Let's reserve that money, put it in a fund, because we can see that there are needs in the care." I couldn't. That was not possible under the budgetary rules. Now the budgetary rules are never the rules of the whole Chamber, but always of those who run the place. But I couldn't. Now that it's about Defense billions for weapons, submarines, and the JSF can do it. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance to now ensure that there is also a health fund and that we reserve this kind of surplus. This year's surplus is 800 million. I happen to have seen that youth care needs just as much money to offer the young people the future we all want anyway. Let's make a reservation on that. The Minister can't be against it anymore. "Rules are rules" is used because of the political unwillingness to do this kind of thing, but those rules no longer apply. 'Cause with the DOD, it's okay. Well, then you can take care of it. Then the Groninger gas. We're so in favour of the Groningen gas going back to zero that we're going to invest in Groningen and we're going to fix the wounds that were struck in that province. But now this government presents it as if Groningen is costing us 300 million next year. It's just not true. Groningen brings us billions until 2021. How much more billion is it gonna get us on gas? It's presented to us as if it were going to cost 300 million, but how many of them are actually going net to Exxon and Shell? That's 100%, isn't it? Here's one more thing. The gap in the budget is therefore a shift of all kinds of money, because the previous government did not have it on the current budget, so it did not have to present it if a deficit is closed next year with the under-utilisation of care. Do you really think that this is how you get support for your decisions? The Council of State is literally saying that you cannot cover structural burdens in the budget in this way. You tell people they have care costs, but it goes to the Groninger gas. That's people turning a blind eye. A finance minister should not do that, regardless of why the 200 million for the future of Groningen has become 100 million. Mr. Chairman. Finance and the distribution of our wealth are always about who pays the bill: care costs, energy costs. How about I take a look at the cost of care? Once a fashion, an ordinary income, pays 25% of his income in healthcare costs. Two modes pay 18% and three modes 14%. So the more you're gonna make, the less care costs you're gonna have on your income. We asked once before when I was on VWS. Then it turned out that if you make a million dollars, it only weighs 5% on your income. Now this cabinet says that the VAT increase, for water, groceries, train tickets, newspapers, will strike down just as much at all incomes. I don't believe it. If you see how the cost of care falls on incomes, then it must also run in parallel with VAT costs. I would like a new estimate to be made. It cannot be the case that people with a smaller disposable income suffer as much from this fine on the groceries as people with a large, thick wallet. We want a better climate. Who doesn't want that? That's when the bill for energy rises, this government says. I wonder why "dús"? Is that fair? The cost of climate policy is out of control. Families already pay 2.8 billion too much for what they pollute and companies 1.8 billion too little. Next year we will see that families will be billed more, 800 million, than the companies. Is this just climate policy? No. It is also quite stupid, because the companies that pollute so much will reduce their pollution by a higher bill. That's good for climate policy. These companies will reduce their energy consumption and will innovate. That can even lead to jobs. But no, we put the bill with households, with those who can't escape, and not with business. That's stupid, unjust politics. There will now be a tax increase for the lowest incomes and a tax reduction for the highest incomes; that is exactly the wrong order. And people are going to pay much more via more expensive messages: next year €700 extra for ordinary incomes. The Consumers' Association calculated for us that people with an income of up to €40,000 are making exactly €700 on it. So that's gone with this cabinet policy. Can the government admit that much more than 7% of purchasing power will decline next year and can it admit that these are mainly those who have less to spend and not those who have more to spend? It's being compensated. Families actually go in the minus, says the Central Planning Bureau, but are compensated by discounts and surcharges. The CDA immediately has a problem with the people who cannot find the discounts, but there is also something unfair in it, because if you depend on discounts and surcharges for your purchasing power increase, that is actually proof that the tax system is unfair. Because what happens if those discounts and surcharges go away, for example, because the Brexit is hitting a hard economic dent in the budget that we now have? Then it is always looked at first and not at higher taxes, for example. Who benefits from the policy? That's what it's about. As far as the dividend tax is concerned, we still do not know that. If money is given to foreign countries in development cooperation, we want to know how that money is spent. If there is extra money in policy areas, this minister wants accountability plans and he wants to know how that money is spent. I therefore assume that he will also know, to the decimal place, what amount of these 2 billion goes to governments and what amount goes to large shareholders. How much does BlackRock get? How much does Berkshire Hathaway get from Warren Buffett? And do these big shareholders and these hedge funds need subsidies? Are they perhaps blackmailing the government, whether or not through the Unilever and Shell companies? I would like to ask the Minister why he needs to pack the abolition of the dividend tax into a legislative package that does not allow Members of Parliament to vote in favour or against the abolition of the dividend tax. Is he so afraid of the MPs in this room or of MPs in the Senate? Does he think that the people's representatives should not simply say yes or no to the abolition of the dividend tax? And does he then acknowledge that these kinds of games, rigged because only two parties in this Chamber, namely the VVD and the CDA, want to abolish that dividend tax, are extremely undemocratic and that in this way you cannot enforce the blackmail and cannot impose it on the rest of the parliament? Mr. Chairman. It is time for justice and fair politics. People's representatives and directors should not be blackmailed by large companies, but should act as guardians of the public interest. They must see the needs of the people and therefore care. It shouldn't be a government that facilitates fraud, as we've seen at UWV. We need to create a government that puts an arm around someone and gives someone the opportunity to find a future that you need. I ask the Minister of Finance to be such a keeper and not the slipper carrier of multinationals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u259	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Sneller of D66, I would like to say that my intention is to suspend after Mr Sneller for lunch, because you are undoubtedly in the mood for a sandwich. I call Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is doing well: the lowest unemployment since 2001 and the longest set of budgetary surpluses since 1970. Purchasing power is increasing on average, I say in the direction of Mr Mulder, and debt is falling. But beyond these economic indicators, too, we should be proud. Dutch people are among the happiest people in the world and our health care is one of the best. These achievements are not due to complacency, but to a constant look ahead and work hard together. And there is more than enough to do if we want the Netherlands to be the country of opportunity for everyone and freedom in connectedness. The Monitor Brede Prosperity, to which reference was made earlier, clearly shows how uneven the lusts are actually divided, and that we cannot sit on our hands if we want future generations to get it even better than we do. That's not gonna be easy for us. Because anyone who looks beyond the positive figures of the here and now sees the risks pile up. A hard Brexit is getting closer and closer and will hit us unbelievably hard. Britain is already suffering itself that retreating behind its own borders is causing great damage; according to this week's report, it has been up to 560 million a week since the time of that vote. And to a halt. There is even so little room for other policies, that the speech of the throne has been missed there this year. Damage and standstill, that is also how President Trump rages against everything we have built up after the Second World War and to which we owe our peace and prosperity. Whether or not the Italian Government, Mr Slootweg, referred to the budgetary rules which are being ignored by other European Member States and future generations with financial problems. I would like to say that flirting with nationalism and populism has a high price. So we must prepare ourselves well for lesser times. That is what this budget is doing by now building buffers that we can use later. Government debt is even below 50%, if this continues. Rightly future-proof policies. But above all we must think beyond the buffers, because past experiences and the stress test, which is also in the Millions note, teach us that buffers disappear like snow for the sun as certain risks become reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u261	Mr. Chairman. I heard the word "buffers." I thought: in Mr Sneller's opinion, is it sufficient what we are doing at the moment about buffers? Are you satisfied with what is now being reserved for difficult times?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u262	I am satisfied with the way in which public debt is reduced. I'm just starting a plea as to why I think we should think beyond those buffers. Mr Azarkan has also seen the stress tests, and how quickly the public debt can rise and then those buffers are lost or run out, if we are going to invest them again in more difficult times, when we need to strengthen the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u263	Now both the CPB and the Council of State are actually quite critical of how much money we spend in a high economy. We're actually working on a very pro-cyclical policy. The question is whether that is wise. My question to you is: how do you view this criticism? Shouldn't we be making a lot more reservations, indeed for the next crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u264	It's just something else with what they're saying. The Council of State rightly calls for attention to be paid to the sustainability deficit. I'll get back to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u265	I'd be happy to wait for your contribution. That's what Madam President was about to suggest.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u266	Yeah, exactly, so thank you. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u267	And there's no cliff-edge brexit in those stress tests. That would affect us a lot more. I have already called for clarity on this; what would this mean for the state budget? In a recent letter to the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors draws attention to the information about this, especially over the coming period, so that we are kept a little more informed. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. When the crisis broke out in 2008, but also in 2012, we were unnecessarily vulnerable due to years of delayed reforms and standstill. In my opinion, it is our duty to ensure that we do not repeat that mistake of the past, and that we therefore strengthen our economy. This cabinet is already taking important steps to make our economy more resilient. But I also call on this Minister, now that things are going well, to use this relative tranquillity to reflect with his colleagues on new reforms, and to broaden that thinking. I see three movements that we need to make: to be more resilient to economic shocks, to create opportunities for everyone and to invest instead of repairing them. The Council of State rightly calls for attention to be paid to the sensitivity of the Dutch economy to these shocks. A cyclical cycle similar to the flight of a mercury tail, high peaks and deep valleys, as Hans van Mierlo would probably have said. Part of the explanation for this is our open, export-oriented economy, which brings us a great deal. Personally, I wouldn't want to change that very much. But an economic dip here often gets deeper than necessary because a relatively large part of our wealth is stuck in pensions and houses, while we also have high private debt. And we won't be able to use that money if things aren't right. We can influence these building blocks of our cyclically sensitive economy. In the housing market, for example, we are building up tax incentives for debt. The mortgage interest deduction is no longer taboo. We're even accelerating the phasing-out. This also gives starters more chance to buy a house. But we can also make better use of our pension assets, for example by making it possible to use them flexibly. Is the cabinet also prepared to do preparatory work for the next steps? The cabinet is also working on a labour market where flexibility becomes less flexible and fixed, so that the gap becomes smaller and the equality of opportunity increases. This equality is also increased thanks to the extension of partner leave at birth, which Minister Koolmees defended here last week. But we're far from there. McKinsey calculated that 230,000 women become economically independent when they work more than five hours a week on average. Our national income could grow by up to 100 billion with a number of measures and a cultural change. This is perhaps one of the most important reforms, because emancipation is not only fair but also economically sensible. It is therefore a good thing that this budget allocates money to improve the quality of childcare, that the childcare allowance should be increased structurally by 250 million and that the part-time drop in taxation should be adjusted. But the government still doesn't understand well enough how we can help women choose to work more. It is good that one of the interdepartmental policy investigations is also specifically focused on this, because I think it is important to do more specific research on this, as well as on ways of making more work in taxation pay more without making the system even more complex. For what use are those incentives when people can no longer find their way through the maze of surcharges and therefore do not really know what that more work will bring them or those good ideas if our system is ultimately unable to cope with its implementation? Fortunately, the Secretary of State has already promised to come forward with proposals to simplify and improve the tax system for this cabinet period. But emancipation can only be achieved in part by better policies. Often the walls and ceilings that hold women back are invisible. For example, investors are much less likely to support a start-up run by a woman. And equally important, in my opinion, is that we are working on a culture change and at the end of stupid stereotypes. What is the government doing to set an example in this respect? Mr. Chairman. The weather breaks record after record: from hottest summer to most rain. This has major consequences for farmers and gardeners, but also for air quality and our own health. In this way, the climate crisis is becoming more and more palpable and visible. This cabinet stands for an ambitious approach. It is therefore a good thing that the extraction of Groningen gas goes to zero. First of all, this is of course good for the Groningen people, but with this historic step, we are also using economically good times to make our public finances even more independent from gas revenues. Mr. Chairman. This week, a study appeared in Nature. It said that if we can limit global warming to 1.5°C, we can save EUR 30,000 billion. Talk about "reparing from ex-post to pre-investment"! In 1989, a well-known liberal, when he was not yet a prime minister but a rookie, wrote about this also worthy words. I would like to quote him: 'Deferring the fight against environmental pollution means that future generations will incur higher costs. A high environmental debt puts a mortgage on the future. For future generations, a less polluted environment and higher public debt can be more financially advantageous than the other way around." That is why I am so looking forward to the climate agreement. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the point that Mr Azarkan also touched. In my opinion, there is still a sustainability deficit. I would like to hear whether there is any reason to believe that the sums made at the time of presenting the coalition agreement have changed, but I have not yet seen those reasons. Part of the explanation for the sustainability deficit is the increase in healthcare costs................................................................................................................................................................................................. At the request of the cabinet, the WRR and the ESC are now examining this question. My question is: when can we expect these opinions? And is the Minister prepared to do more with the advice given by the Council of State on this issue than "take it to heart"? The Council of State says: do not wait for the reports, but prepare concrete measures itself. I think that's a wise advice. A clever prevention agreement also offers an excellent opportunity to make the movement I mentioned earlier: from ex-post compensation to ex-ante investment. So I hope we take that chance, too. That is the same opportunity we need to look for for Social Affairs, which is the largest item of expenditure in the Million Note, which is sometimes the concern, depending on the definition. The redistribution engine runs overtime in the Netherlands. I say that as a social-liberal with great satisfaction, but the rack seems to be coming out in the foreseeable future. So we need to look for a cover. And the measures to later have a healthy economy with opportunities for everyone at work, good care and a sound safety net must now be devised, and not when we are forced to do so because the water is economical and we are in crisis mode. Mr. Chairman. There are many additional investments in this budget; even so many investments that the Council of State wonders whether all this is sensible and whether all this can be spent. In this way, nearly €2 billion more will be available for education, research and innovation. And in the public sector, a series of collective agreements have been concluded with wage increases. For example, an average primary school teacher will receive a monthly salary per year. That's a nice step, I'd say. For infrastructure, 10.5% more budget will be available next year. But the biggest percentage increase is next year's Defense, where the budget increases by over a fifth compared to this year. This is partly because more than one billion from this year is being transferred to later years, and not necessarily to the reduction of public debt. Can the Minister take us with him in his confidence that this budget will be spent next year? I think that Mr Nijboer has already said a few justified things about this in the case of interruption. I understand very well that this EUR 1.2 billion is needed later, but there are negative side effects. Our budgetary policy is designed to provide stability. The same applies, of course, to the Minister of Finance, but so does the aldermen's finances. As a result of the current system, municipalities were now told on Prinsjesdag that this year they will receive 193 million less because of underutilization at the state level than had previously been communicated with the same municipalities in May. This while, like here, the budget is still more in implementation in October. Mr. Chairman. During the cabinet formation steps have already been taken by broadening the basis of the Municipal Fund. I think that's generally appreciated. The step-on-step-off principle is also widely embraced. But because of its specific content, municipalities are reduced during the year or even years afterwards, because the Empire does not get its money spent. I do not see the internal logic there, but it does lead to administrative unrest, especially in municipalities that have deficits in the social domain at these times. That is why I ask the Minister what short-term possibilities he sees for giving municipalities more stability. Is he willing to work with them on agreements that offer municipalities more predictability? Moreover, I believe that the local tax area needs to be expanded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u268	Mr Nijboer has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u269	We shall look forward to these proposals, Mr President. I believe that Mr Sneller has a right point with regard to municipalities. Does he agree with me that the source is that this year's cabinet is not enough to deliver on the promises made in the government agreement to the Chamber, but also to the population, investment in education, defence, infrastructure, district nurses, general practitioners, nursing homes, etc., that the money is not being spent and returned to the state treasury?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u270	I do not think the money goes back into the state treasury, but the funds are transferred with a cash-slide to subsequent years. Mr Nijboer mentioned an amount of 2.9 billion. There is also money for infrastructure that goes to next years, including money for defence that goes to next years. And then he throws everything into one pile, while I think: some of those things are actually being spent. I also agree, of course, with him that we must do everything we can to ensure that the cabinet also achieves the goals it has set. Only, I also think that if it is already clear to the cabinet that this is not going to work, we would have a bigger problem if they didn't say to us until next year: we already knew, but we haven't reported it yet. So, in that respect, I'm glad that's just being properly reported.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u271	I have also been on behalf of the coalition for a number of years. Then Mr Pechtold was always in the lead, or Mr Koolmees during financial debates, with the call: ambition, more performance, you can promise it to those teachers, but you have to do it! I would now like to say to Mr Sneller: come on, speak to the cabinet as well. You offer a cloth for bleeding for municipalities, but that is to compensate for all those promises that have not been made. And it's just in the pieces. There's 2.9 billion left under the spending framework in August, and we're paying it off in the state treasury. That has never happened in the past few years. I checked that, too. There may be 100 or 200 million left over from such a large budget, but never 3 billion. And you shouldn't accept that. You must stand for your promises for education, for district nurses, for care, for defense, for police, for the IRS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u272	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u273	In my opinion, the money is spent on education. And here I am side by side with Mr Nijboer to live up to the ambitions. This time extra money will be available. Maybe that was different from previous years. We need to make sure that money is spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u274	Mr. Nijboer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u275	In education, there is simply another task for the coming years. During the General Political Reviews, we tabled a Chamber-wide motion to withdraw 19 million for MBO students, but the coverage is not yet available. It hasn't been realized. Education is also underspending in a number of areas this year. I mentioned district nurses, I mentioned general practitioners, it's in that whole budget. I think that is a big problem, and I think it is very lax to say as a cabinet in August: well, we're not really doing anything about it anymore, we're not looking at how that can be properly spent and you'll hear us again next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u276	Mr Nijboer is juggling with years and with goals and underspending. I think he knows better himself. I have already said that I also believe that the local tax area should be expanded.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u277	That's right. Mrs Leijten also has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u278	There is magic with numbers, in =outsets, and you name it all. People can't tie rope to it anymore. With that she is also a bit of a wheel in front of her eyes. Let me give you an example. You're paying care premiums. You pay so much to care every year. I just talked about how it doesn't go down fairly on disposable income. But there is also much left with regard to care. Doesn't Mr Sneller also think that you should say: yes, these are taxes paid by people; the government or government has measured them widely, and then the money remains available for care?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u279	I think the problem is something else. People don't realize at all how much care is spent. People know very well what they pay for their own contributions or pay for health care costs directly. But in the blue booklet, which you probably also have, there is a nice overview of how much more care is actually spent. I think there's still limited cost awareness there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u280	This is a bullshit answer. Mr Sneller does not answer my question. So maybe he can go into my question. The moment you leave money on the Budgetary Framework of Care, it has been said that people pay that, every year, and that money remains, that money goes to general funds. That's people turning a blind eye. We shouldn't be doing that. Could Mr Sneller comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u281	No, I don't share that whole analysis. I think Mrs De Vries had a point to make: how have we dealt with it in the system? Mrs Leijten also mentioned this in previous debates. I think that's a fair point. If the premium appears to be rising or falling less, why should it be compensated by increased costs? Let's look at that and make that incentive sound more like it. But that the money that is left is being spent on other purposes, I think, according to the agreements, and I can follow them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u282	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u283	Now the monkey's coming out of the sleeve! I saw Mr Pechtold rush forward and I heard him say: if that money is not spent for the JSF, for submarines and for weapons in the Defense Department, then it must remain available for that industry. That's what the government does. She's not moving that money to next year, she's moving it to the years after that. It's all engineering.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u284	Can you keep it shorter?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u285	But what we promised to the arms industry goes to the arms industry. Year in, year out is promised to people that money would be available for care. Year in, year out, there's money left and something else is paid for. Isn't that like turning a wheel in front of your eyes? Well, then you'd have to keep that money available for the care, wouldn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u286	I think that we should make sure that care costs increase less, and that failures contribute to this in the longer term. So let's keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u287	I'm not asking...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u288	No, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u289	I'm not asking you to go down or up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u290	No. You have already received an answer, but it may not be the answer you are waiting for. I've had you interrupted three times. So I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u291	No, Mr. Chairman. I did not mention the increase or reduction in health care costs, nor did I mention the reduction in the premium. I'm talking about money that's left.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u292	How your question is interpreted by Mr Sneller is up to him. He answered the question. You've tried three times. So I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u293	This accountant turns away from being...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u294	I turned off the interrupting microphone. That's how we do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u295	I don't recognize myself in the picture that I'd be an accountant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u296	I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u297	Mr. Sneller, you mentioned the extension of the municipal tax area. I recall that three years ago, when Minister Hoekstra was a senator, like myself, a letter was sent that ultimately had to lead D66 to support the 5 billion tax reduction package, because D66 had voted against it. It therefore stated that the municipal tax rate would be increased to reduce the tax on labour. Do you think it is fair that the municipal tax area should be increased for workers and not for workers? This also applies to elderly people who have their own homes and who pay much more municipal taxes, while they do not share in the reduction of the taxes that you offer CDA, D66 and other parties to the workers? The retired person does pay the municipal tax, but for him there are no tax cuts. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u298	On the contrary, I see a lot of municipalities where local burdens do not increase at all, and that is a very different discussion than whether we are going to broaden the local tax area, because that is what you should use to reduce the burden at national level, and that seems to me to be beneficial to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u299	You're going past my question. I didn't say the charges are rising now. I said there's a plan to expand the municipal tax area. A major report has been published on this subject. D66 then demanded that steps be taken now in the Senate. This means that everyone, working and not working, who has a home, will pay especially a much higher WWF, which will then be used to only lower the taxes of the workers. My question to you is: do you think it is fair for pensioners to have to pay the higher WWF, but not share in the tax reduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u300	Mr Van Rooijen is talking about two cases that neither have come. The local tax area has not been expanded. I'm sorry about that, but it's how it happened. And how this reduction is then designed, so we never got to it. Then we can have that discussion afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u301	Mr Van Rooijen, the same applies to you as to Mrs Leijten, and then I am already wider than the chairman was this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u302	I didn't get an answer to my question. My question was: if that plan comes up, because that plan is there, it was even D66's demand in the Senate to accept that 5 billion........................................................................................................................................................................................... My question was: if that were possible, do you think it is fair? Then don't say it's not there. My question is: if that happens, do you think it is right? 'Cause that can happen if it's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u303	If we are going to broaden the local tax area, I suggest that we discuss how we are shaping the tax relief at national level, going into this house and not referring to the Senate. I hope, Mr Van Rooijen, that we can have that discussion, because unfortunately the report by the VNG is not being carried out. Mr. Chairman. It was about stability in the implementation of the budget. The Court of Auditors showed us in May that in many departments on 1 January the total budget for that year is actually already closed. However, we have set up systems at national level, with a slight deviation in the estimate leading to a major budgetary problem that often still needs to be addressed in the same year. Like in education. This too is not good for the stability of the budget. Fortunately, both ministers are breeding together for a solution. When will we receive the outcome of this? Every cyclist or hiker who's been in the mountains knows: you're only upstairs when you go down again. The same applies to the economic situation. We do not know when, but we do know that the turning point will come, and so we must prepare ourselves for it as best we can. In 2008 I said it earlier "We were not only unnecessarily vulnerable because of a lack of reform, but there was also no crisis package with additional expenditure. Ex post evaluations showed that many measures were actually too late, were not effective and did not have a lasting effect either. Here, too, I think we should do our homework now. That is why I ask the Minister if he is prepared to draw up an incentive package so that we can create that stability if there is a need for the man. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. With this budget, we are making important investments in a strong society, but the risks are also increasing. We certainly need to strengthen the economy with the measures in the coalition agreement, but in the coming period we should also use it as far as I am concerned to think harder about new reforms and additional spending so that we are ready if we need them. A smart driver is prepared for his future. Or to quote a reconstruction of Roald Amundsen's success: "Nothing had gone wrong, because simply nothing could go wrong; he had thought of everything and was prepared for everything."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u304	D66 is a beautiful democratic party. They have their conference on Saturday, and I have a question about that. Does it matter if Congress were to oppose the abolition of dividend tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u305	Any verdict from my congress matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u306	Then my follow-up question is, what does it matter? We have seen in the past with the VVD and other parties, including my party, that it should have consequences here if a congress really finds something and has an opinion. Especially in a democratic party, I expect that too. So what does it matter if Congress says no?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u307	I think it was your conference that didn't buy jets. I think we will enter into the discussion. If you've seen the congressional agenda, you'll know there are several motions. I think we will enter into the discussion, see what happens and then discuss it as a group, as I believe every democratic party does.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u308	Sure, that's discussed. But you take that seriously, and it matters if the Congress makes a statement that is not in line with what the Cabinet has agreed and what the Parliamentary Group does not think so far, but at least votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u309	The laugh in the cabinet's business when it comes to saying that D66 takes the congress seriously is to say that D66 is actually stuck on this file. D66 himself has often acknowledged that. They didn't have to. It is actually sad to see that democracy works so that two parties that do want it, the VVD and the CDA, can impose their will on a majority. There is 11% support among the population, which means that they can ignore 89% of non-support. I understand it's annoying for you, too, Mr. Chairman. I understand the plight of D66, but what does D66 think about this proposal being wrapped up in a legislative proposal that actually embezzles the decision? Does D66 think that's possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u310	I do not think it is a proposal that is being muffled away in this discussion. I think it gets all the attention it deserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u311	Of course, you understand very well what we're talking about. It's a little swallowing or choking because there are several measures in it. We know that the Senate has been very irritated about this in the past, not least then Senator Hoekstra. He said, it just has to come apart so you don't get forced to vote for something you're against. That's what my question is about. Does D66 find it purely political that you are forced to vote for something that you are against or forced to vote against something that you are for because it is conveniently wrapped in one law?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u312	I think it makes sense that it is along with a number of other measures in the area of business taxation and that a number of other legislative proposals are isolated, but there is some logical consistency, as you can see in the government agreement, with those other measures. Furthermore, I think that everyone here is man enough to table amendments, to ask for an article-by-article vote or to use the other parliamentary instruments that we have. But I do understand the logical coherence with the other things that make it a single bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u313	Finally, Mrs Leijten, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u314	The opposition as a whole's amendment to remove the dividend tax has already been tabled. But don't take that away from being games. I can understand that sometimes you leave a gap in negotiations, but I cannot understand, especially from a party that has 'democrats' in its name, that you take away the rest of the Chamber the chance to vote for or against. So I find that very sad...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u315	Thank you, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u316	That you actually impose the will of two parties, a large minority in this Chamber, on a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u317	It's excluded from the Tax Plan. I am glad that Mrs Leijten at least thinks that this is a step forward. I think she herself has just illustrated how the Chamber could express its opinion on this matter individually in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-10-03-tweedekamer-3.u318	That's how you came to the end of your input. I'm gonna suspend the meeting until 2:00 p.m. Then we start with the scheme and then we continue with the first period of financial considerations.
