ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u1	The next item is the debate on discrimination in employment agencies. I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. I give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks. The microphone's on now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The microphone's on, and my clock's on four minutes. Mr. Chairman. Age, gender or origin should not affect your chances on the labour market, because the Dutch labour market needs everyone. However, this is all too often the case. A shockingly large group of temporary employment agencies is involved in discriminatory requests from employers. That's not because they don't know they can't. The majority of the intercedents responded with: that of course is not allowed, but I have heard you. So that's deliberately breaking the rules. Mr. Chairman. In my view, the sector itself recognises that this really cannot be done and that measures are urgently needed. It is important to make intercedents more resilient to weird requests from clients who do not take it so closely with laws and regulations. Information, training and mystery call research can help. In addition, I think it is important that intercedents report it at all times if they receive a discriminatory request. But it is not entirely clear to me what intercedents can do in such a case. Can they report it to the College of Human Rights, for example, even if they are not discriminated against themselves? Intercedents can have an important signal function. I think it would be a good idea if we put that more in. Although the sector is now taking good steps, it should also be possible to check whether it is moving in the right direction, because this is happening more often, we have seen. For that, we should not only depend on a study by Radar. Does the Secretary of State really want to do something about this? The inspection SZW has a number of tools to monitor the broadcasting sector, but my question is: are they also used? How many reports have been received during the inspection of discriminatory temporary employment agencies in recent years? How many of these reports have the inspection given follow-up? What does the inspection do in such a case? And is the amount of the fines sufficient? Mr. Chairman. It is scandalous that so many temporary employment agencies go along with discriminatory requests, but in the end these requests also come from somewhere, namely from companies and employers. We all have to make sure that the request "I don't like Moroccan" isn't made at all anymore. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, more effort is needed. For years it has been known that applicants with a non-Western background are less likely to be invited than native applicants. It is also known that unjust imaging is the cause of this. So one of the spearheads should be the fight against this imagery. The Secretary of State can take an example from the ABU. It can launch a diversity campaign to prevent discrimination and promote an inclusive labour market. I think this is a good initiative. Can the Secretary of State support this initiative and possibly even extend it? Can this also be part of the Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination? Mr. Chairman. The Inspection SZW could play an important role in addressing this problem, but it now has no authority to monitor recruitment and selection policies. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this power will come as soon as possible, because it is really necessary to tackle this problem. I am pleased that the Secretary of State in the Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination is going to see how it can strengthen that competence. I really hope it's going to be one of her spearheads in the coming period. Can the Secretary of State also take the opportunity to use mysterious applicants? This seems to my group to be a really good way of checking whether employers comply with the law. Mr President, I will conclude. We still have a long way to go to give everyone a fair chance on the labour market. I see that the cabinet feels the urgency, but I hope that it will also really take firm measures to tackle this problem. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate was the situation in the broadcasting sector. A study of the Radar TV programme showed that almost half of the temporary employment agencies participated in a discriminatory request from a client. That is unacceptable and I assume that the whole Chamber has no other opinion on it. In response to this, we have debated here before, including the Minister for the Interior. Motions have also been adopted, but fortunately we have received a letter from the Secretary of State on how the cabinet intends to proceed with this matter. I do have a few more points of interest. At this stage, I am, of course, very much looking forward to the Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination, which I really expect to be concrete and robust and which includes actions that will have to be further developed and supplemented in the period thereafter, but which I think we really need to take seriously. The Secretary of State was very kind to Mr Gijs van Dijk's motion from the Labour Party and myself in the budget debate. So I have every confidence in that. The bar is high, but I know that I find her by my side, because we cannot accept this. As reckless as this is, we have to keep doing this every day. The government certainly has a role to play in this. I shall deal with a number of specific points. The broadcasting sector itself has promised to improve. Well, I've heard more of that on this file, and more than once. That is why it is important to stay on top of that very firmly. I therefore expect the Secretary of State to make good agreements with the broadcasting sector, because I am still not entirely satisfied with some of the issues in the letter. I'm picking one out, which is an extra membership requirement at one of the domes, the ABU. If you discriminate, you may no longer be a member of the ABU, but I quote from the letter "where the temporary agency is obliged to demonstrate that it is pursuing an active anti-discrimination policy with concrete steps. Repeated failure to comply with this requirement may, in the extreme, mean the loss of ABU membership." When I read that, I thought you could write that down more ambitiously. I assume that this will also be done very ambitiously by the broadcasting sector and that the Secretary of State will also support them in doing so. I also hope that she will remain in real conversation with them, so that we can see improvements in this for the next three years, because that seems to be about the cycle in which this appears here in the Chamber. That is right, because it is very important that we continue to draw attention to this. Then the search for how to better maintain in the recruitment and selection phase and combat discrimination there. The Social Affairs Inspectorate can enforce anti-discrimination policy, but not on individual cases. That's up to the judge or the Human Rights College. In the budget debate, Mr Gijs van Dijk and I, supported by the Chamber, asked in the motion I mentioned earlier to see how the inspection could be given a greater role. In the case of discriminatory applications to temporary employment agencies, this is still rather complicated. There won't be a victim yet. This is only a question from a company at an intercedent of a temporary agency, but quite a few groups are excluded. So that raises questions. How can we make sure that this hole, in which no one can actually act, is closed? What's the right way around here? Could the state's attorney report this? Can the inspection report SZW? What could be a reporting obligation from the intercedent to the inspection here? For example, the inspection can say: if you make such a request, business, your anti-discrimination policy is not correct and we have a title to address you. I would like to hear the Secretary of State and consider returning to this in the second term. Then there is transparency. The Secretary of State states that she first wants to evaluate the Fake Constructions Act before looking at transparency in inspection investigations around the Arbowet, which also results in this discrimination. I wonder if we can't do that much sooner. I see Mr Van Dijk standing. Finally, I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment that the temporary expansion of the Labour Market Discrimination Team is likely to lighten up such a large part of the veil that I am confident that it will simply be secured from the additional capacity of the Labour Inspectorate from the coalition agreement. The Secretary of State says this with 99% certainty. I'm 100% happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u5	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u6	Mr Van Weyenberg rightly says that there is actually a weakness in the recruitment and selection phase. There's nothing the inspection can do. He mentions a number of possibilities, which are interesting, but what is the bottomline for Mr Van Weyenberg himself? Because maybe the reconnaissance that the government is going to do comes out: we've looked at it, but there's nothing we can do. What do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u7	First of all, I would like to listen to the Secretary of State's reply. I always think it's nice to wait for the answer when you ask a question. As far as I'm concerned, doing nothing is most unfortunate. I can't really imagine that that's the outcome. But I will come back to that in the second period on the basis of the reply from the Secretary of State. I'm really looking for a way to close that hole. On the basis of the reply of the Secretary of State, I shall return to that in the second term. I agree with Mr Jasper van Dijk that if we do not close this gap, it will be very difficult for the Labour Inspectorate to act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u8	I totally agree with that last one. For me, then, the logical conclusion should be that I hope that Mr Van Weyenberg, too, will agree that we must ensure that there is a body, the inspection, which can monitor this. I'm worried about this. I am not at all convinced that the government is coming this far. So I would ask you to think with me so that at the end of this debate we have a little more certainty that there will be action if there is discrimination, as Radar has shown.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u9	I believe that this is exactly what we have said to the cabinet in the Chamber's motion, which, fortunately, has been very widely supported. It's very difficult. That's what we think. Individual cases of discrimination should be decided by the judge or the college. But with that, there's some kind of black hole where you want something. That is exactly the call made to the cabinet. I think you should look very seriously at reporting obligations, for example, so that at least the Labour Inspectorate gets more information to check with companies if their policies are not in order. I believe that Mr Van Dijk and I are pulling the same strings, except that I await that broad question about the labour inspectorate's instruments very concrete proposals from the Secretary of State. It must be able to shape this in a workable way with the Labour Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u10	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. I now give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The police in Amsterdam asked for people with a different background in a vacancy. The police are mostly trying to bring in immigrants. That's discrimination. A Turkish entrepreneur in The Hague's Schilderswijk (Schilderswijk) I also remembered this six months ago. That is also discrimination. Alderman Baldewsingh has often been mentioned here in the municipality of The Hague to unwitt the town hall in terms of staff. That's tough discrimination. A politically correct web crate especially calls on the colored fellow man to apply as a politically correct piece stinger. That is discrimination, but also self-loathing, by the way. Now, the TV program Radar has called a number of temporary employment agencies asking whether Moroccans, Turks or Surinamese could not be invited to the job or to the workplace. Meeting that demand is discrimination. That's right. But the intercedent is also trained to meet the customer's wishes, otherwise the customer will walk away and you may lose your job. That is why Radar also managed to place the intercedent very sensitively and very handsomely between two fires. Poor intercedent! But again, it was discrimination. In addition to the fact that the broadcasting industry is shocked, even if it is compared to the SCP report of 2010 or 2011, I thought, three times more than a few years ago, a lot of attention is already being paid to preventing discrimination. Everything has been rigged: anti-discrimination agencies and you name it. You can go anywhere. On the internet, it is full of job vacancies and temporary agency organisations who explain in detail how to prevent discrimination in job vacancies, for example. Google on those two words and you'll get 59,800 hits in no time. Very nice, you'd say. But the danger of that is of course that you get dragons from adverts, as again in Amsterdam. Staff are recruited on behalf of the municipality of Amsterdam. It says above: do you speak Turkish, Berbers, Arabish, it says there with "sh" and not even with "sch"; I don't know what that says either Moroccan or you're super interested in different cultures and you're looking for a nice temporary full-time job as a student, read on quickly. Well, we have to conclude that the integration doesn't start with Dutch talking because that's what the native Dutch people have no chance of doing. I think that's discrimination, too. Mr President, when we spoke on this subject more than six months ago, I quoted two Moroccan-Dutch young people. In de Volkskrant they had fully endorsed the conclusions of a report by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. They're called Anouar El Haji and Mohamed Aadroun. They argued, like the SCP, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, that discrimination exists because of group images. That doesn't start with the employer, it starts with the group. We talked about it back then, and it still stands. Mr. Chairman. I also regularly listen to smaller employers, but also to managers of larger companies. Then I hear the thunder starts as soon as too many Moroccans work somewhere, especially in the younger age: stealing, intimidation, violence, falling turnover and rising costs. I even know Moroccan entrepreneurs who say they prefer Dutch young people to work with them. So it can work either way. There are Dutch who say "I don't want Moroccans" and there are Surinamese who say "I don't want Turks." All forms of discrimination exist. Again, if you feel discriminated against, you can report it and the rule of law will do its job. But when I look at the negative group image, the crime statistics and other negative statistics actually show that Moroccans themselves are not doing very much to improve the group image. Mr. Chairman. I would like to repeat the cry for help seven months ago, namely: let us all act normal once again. Because where is the Dutch sobriety? Where is the positive fighting spirit that has brought this country so far? Where's the getting up after the fall? Where's the reason? Yeah, I could ask that, too. Maybe those things aren't in the integration course? Finally, Mr President. If there's discrimination, you can report it. We have a rule of law for that. There are also all desks that can help you with notifications. In the Netherlands, at least, we suffer from two types of structured and institutionalised forms of discrimination, which are diversity policy and Islam. Let us therefore remain sober and above all reasonable. The rule of law must do its job in the event of criminal discrimination. Let us stop with diversity policy and let us de-islamize the Netherlands in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u12	Mr De Graaf talks about the group image. When I look at the image of PVV's and when I see how many criminal activities PVV's have done in recent years, that group image is not very positive either. I hear from a lot of PVV people who have finally found the right path that because they have "PVV" on their CV, they do not get a job. Do you not think that we should help these ex-PVVs who have found the right path and deal with the discriminatory entrepreneur?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u13	I don't see the difference between the straight path and the PVV. Perhaps Mr Öztürk can clarify that, because I really do not understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u14	I've been talking about the group image. The PVV group image is very negative. If you put all those criminal activities of ex-PVVs together, that's not exactly a good thing. There are PVVs who distance themselves from that and then end up on the straight path. They want an honest job but are discriminated against. I want to help them. My question is: are you prepared to join me in helping those PVVs who are discriminated against?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u15	I said exactly what I said. If discrimination takes place and that's a criminal offence, you're gonna have to go to court. That's reasonable, that's sober, that's Dutch and that's how we do it here. Everyone in the Netherlands is the same. I'm not going to make exceptions for special groups. Again, the PVV is the straight path and DENK certainly is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u16	You just see an evasive answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u17	It's "evasive" without an "emergency" answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u18	Inside he still wants to help those people, but because he has to be tough with his own boss, he tries to keep a story here. Let's do this. Together with the PVV, let us have the courage to tackle all discrimination, including towards PVV. Do you have the guts?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u19	Mr Öztürk thinks he can look into my head and know the communication between me and Mr Wilders. He doesn't know him, so he's here blabbing. What he's saying doesn't add up. That's all I can make of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u20	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The question is how many times we have to have this debate. Mr Van Weyenberg also said it. Every few years we have, rightly, a debate here on discrimination in the labour market, and more specifically, on discrimination by temporary employment agencies. Because, of course, it's happened before. And Radar has once again shown that, although it's a little less, it's still happening on a big scale. A question is being asked and the question is being passed on nicely. Of course, the intercedent is always under pressure. It must be for the client's sake. But there must never be any discrimination. So we have to ban it. Here in this House of Representatives, even after this Radaruit shipment, we almost Chamberwide again expressed our horror and said: this must not happen. For the Labour Party, the broader fight against labour market discrimination is also really a key issue. It's about equal opportunities, regardless of your origin, your age, your gender, or your sexual preference. Everyone in the Netherlands has an equal chance, of course also on the labour market. That is very important. Work is actually the engine of life for so many people. So I think we need to work hard on this. I am pleased that the Secretary of State, in her letter following the previous debate we had with the Minister of the Interior, is taking an active approach. It has already adopted a number of motions, although not yet worked out, but it has embraced them. In doing so, she says that she is going to make real progress in the Employment Discrimination Action Plan. My main question to the Secretary of State is therefore when this will lead to real results. I know that the Secretary of State will not be able to remove discrimination on the labour market in the Netherlands from one day to the next. But the question is how quickly it expects results. I think it is important because there is still discrimination today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. So that's actually the main question. I have already said that I am really pleased with the intention of the Secretary of State and the Cabinet. They are keen to show that they want to tackle this and that they think it is of the utmost importance. We are now specifically talking about the temporary employment agencies. The debate is also about self-regulation. I asked earlier whether this time of self-regulation is over. Should we not intervene through the inspection, through legal measures? The Secretary of State writes that the two skylights are going ahead and that they want to be independently controlled. My question to the Secretary of State is how independent that control is. What is the risk that we will be back here in a few years' time? Broadcast domes also have a certain interest, namely to make sales. They have clients who have all kinds of questions. We want a broadcasting sector that never ever responds positively to a discriminatory question. How independent is this control, which the broadcasting sector partly wants to shape itself? My second question concerns the SNA hallmark. There are also temporary employment agencies which are not covered by the domes of the ABU and the NBBU. There's a lot of them. They must, however, comply with the quality mark. To what extent does this SNA label really prevent discrimination? Is there any control of that? Could the Secretary of State perhaps work with the SNA on a more robust label? Finally, it has already been mentioned: the role of inspection. A motion has been passed in the Chamber. The Secretary of State writes in the Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination that it wants to give the inspection more opportunities when it comes to recruitment and selection. How does the Secretary of State see that? How does she expect this to really lead to results? There is a sort of gap between temporary agency agencies which say to control and the individual who is discriminated against or is given a discriminatory demand. I would also like to see more clarity from the Secretary of State on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u22	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Peeters on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If it were easy to solve, we wouldn't be here. But it's clear: you still better have a criminal record than a Moroccan last name, if you want to get to work. Some temporary employment agencies still agree with the desire of some customers to recruit only among the native population and to ban our immigrant fellow people in this way. That's not acceptable; that's what everyone here thinks. But with that observation, the problem has not been solved. We can, of course, say that employers who give a temporary employment agency such an assignment are in any case not right in that respect. Well, we're right about that. But that doesn't solve the problem. We can of course say that discrimination is prohibited by law and that victims must report it. We are right about that, too. But that doesn't solve the problem. We can say that we invented action plans in The Hague. That too is true and we are right about that, but we also need to see that it does not or does not help enough. Does the Minister share this conclusion? We can even claim that discrimination is of all times and of all cultures. We are right about that, too. But not only is the problem not solved, but with that we would accept it as a fact of life. That is not only wrong, but also completely unacceptable. Then we come to the heart of the story: what then? Fortunately, the cabinet has already indicated that it wants to tackle this problem very quickly. In this case, discrimination against temporary employment agencies in particular. Agreements have been made with temporary employment agencies to tackle discrimination. Can the Minister please tell us what's going on with these appointments? Do temporary employment agencies now carry out checks within the professional group? Do they use so-called mystery guests? And what are the possible sanctions which the profession imposes on itself in the event of alleged discrimination? Are they gonna report it to the justice department themselves? Are temporary employment agencies deleting a company from a health mark list? They put it on a public blacklist? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Does the Secretary of State have confidence in the self-cleaning capacity of temporary agency agencies, combined with the possibility of prosecution after declaration of discrimination? Or is it gonna take more? Are employers now being prosecuted by the courts? And what opportunities and opportunities does the Secretary of State see to help or force temporary employment agencies to put an end to discrimination? What does she need from us as MPs for that? In any case, I have been told that there is no incentive. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u24	Mr Jasper van Dijk. You'll have to get up in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u25	Yes, I'm not that fast, Mr. Chairman. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u26	So young...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u27	That's right, and yet... It's about quality. Mr Peters asks a lot of questions to the government. That's interesting, but what does he want? If he's looking back on that Radar broadcast where we clearly saw discrimination, what, according to the CDA, should happen to those temp agencies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u28	I'm not just gonna judge on the basis of a Rada diamond shipment here. But if there are things that don't add up, then they need to be dealt with. The Secretary of State stated in a letter that she is going to proceed with it. I'll share that. I'm happy about that. I have asked questions to clarify that ambition once again. Of course, we are also partly here for the clients. Mrs Özütok also said just now that clients would prefer no one with a Moroccan or Turkish surname. There is part of the problem and, of course, part of the solution. And part of the solution is a sector that really needs to work on self-cleaning. I asked questions about this, and that is also in the letter from the Secretary of State. I'm waiting for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u29	This is your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u30	That's up to me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u31	I thought we had four.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u32	Yeah, that's right. But Mr El Yassini has yet to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u33	Oh, this is a new model. I thought four questions in two. Well, let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u34	Mr. El Yassini still has to do, doesn't he? But continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u35	I'm gonna kill him. If Mr Peters does not want to judge on the basis of that Radaruit shipment, in which discrimination was evident, then I wonder what else needs to be done to get the CDA into action. The point is that, in response to that broadcast, the government says: very annoying and it is not allowed, but we cannot help it either. The inspection must not check for recruitment and selection. Shouldn't the inspection be able to maintain that if it's up to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u36	You are actually asking the same question you have just asked Mr Van Weyenberg. Now I understand it better. I will return to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u37	Thank you, Mr. Peters. I am now going to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of this year, the Radar programme revealed that almost half of the temporary employment agencies are prepared to discriminate on demand. This isn't the first time. In 2011, we heard about this. In 2014, as many as 2,100 notifications were received. In short, the problem has been known for years. It's just nothing's going to happen. In fact, there is no control of discrimination. That's what we read when Radar came out with his findings. "We do not check for discrimination. How could you test that?', says John Verboom of the company Q inspection, which controls the quality hallmark of temporary employment agencies. That's amazing, isn't it? Look how relatively simple Radar has handled it. I ask the government: has action been taken on the basis of that broadcast? Was there a report? Have you looked into any possibility of prosecuting those agencies? I'd like a response. Nor does the Labour Market Discrimination Team of the inspection have any powers to control recruitment and selection. Self-regulation does not work and the government has no powers. I think it's pretty embarrassing. Now, in the letter of 1 May, the Secretary of State announced some measures. The temporary employment agencies have made nice action plans to get on with it. It's a lot of fine words, but I'm rather sceptical about self-regulation. The government's actions are primarily reconnaissance and investigation. It is clear to me that the inspection should be given more powers. There should be no further investigations, but there should be a legislative proposal to arm the inspection in the foreseeable future. In addition, the inspection should assess individual cases, and not just a company's policy. An individual case must be sufficient ground to deal with a company. The inspection should therefore be extended further. I would like to hear from the government, the Minister, who may be able to say something about how the inspection will be carried out in the near future. It says there's extra bets on this point. How? I'd like an overview. It is also important to be able to deal with temporary employment agencies that are not so close to the rules. That is why we believe it is necessary to introduce a licensing system. Then you can take out discriminatory temp agencies. This is needed as a stick behind the door. In short, Mr President, we propose that when temporary employment agencies discriminate, they should feel the same way. They should be able to get fines. The inspection should also be empowered to check for discrimination in recruitment and selection. To this end, the law must be adapted. If the government doesn't, we'll do it ourselves. There should also be a licensing system for temporary employment agencies so that the permit can be withdrawn in the event of repeated or serious infringements. Mr. Chairman. All the way to the end. In the case of real estate agents, we have recently seen the same phenomenon. Research by De Groene Amsterdammer shows that 90% of brokers are willing to exclude population groups if the client asks. Is the government prepared to take similar measures for this profession?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u39	Mr Van Dijk of the Socialist Party is talking about brokers, but in fact there is action on the part of the government with the same effect. We've had a lot of newcomers in recent years, really over 100,000. They are entitled, if they are status holders, to a social residence with priority over the Dutch. How does Mr Van Dijk view this? It's the same thing, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u40	Yeah, I find that objectionable. I checked that, too. I think that policy has been abolished.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u41	Then there are still many aldermen in the Netherlands who say: yes, all very nice, but we do not stick to that. We've been given a job to house those people, so we're just gonna keep doing that. If I or Mr Fritsma, one of my colleagues, put forward a motion to really abolish that policy, is Mr Van Dijk prepared to support this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u42	That's a like-dan question. I want to see the motion, of course. But I think making an unjustified distinction is wrong. I think that when we see that certain groups are being advanced in relation to other groups that are equally entitled to a home, we should therefore take a very critical look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u43	Thank you for that answer. A little hurry, but still! I still think it's too noncommittal. "Looking at it very critically" obviously leaves a lot of room for that policy to exist. The SP has, of course, always supported this policy in recent years. They say: everyone must be able to enter the Netherlands, everyone must be able to get a home. As a result, they have put a lot of Dutch people in the cold. So now I see a spin of the SP? Or is it just a beginning of a twist? Or is it just an answer to me again with a cloth... To send me back into the woods?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u44	Send a cloth into the woods? Is that Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u45	I recovered. You heard that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u46	I saw that Mr De Graaf was just very critical of a colleague's Dutch. Then you have to stay sharp yourself! I also found the first two interruptions sharper than the last one. Then it got a little clowny. The fact that the SP is setting up the doors for everyone is pertinent nonsense. I've never argued that before. Again, we need to look very critically. Unrighteous distinction, you can't do that. So at this point it is good that you keep us sharp, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u47	Again, we need to look very critically.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u48	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr El Yassini on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. By the way, there's another SP pen here. I don't want it. Mr. Chairman. You want to make something beautiful out of your life and you strive for your happiness. You want to get to work and you're willing to fight in the labour market. Your lineage, name, age or orientation should not matter. It then appears that intercedents at a large number of temporary employment agencies at the request of their clients exclude people from Moroccan, Turkish or Surinamese origin. Only for your origin or your skin color is the door closed for you. That is terrible and unjust. It is incomprehensible that this is still happening. The VVD expects people to participate in society, to master the language and to have their own responsibility. If they then do so, it is unacceptable for employers and temporary employment agencies to close their doors by discrimination. Let me be very clear: discrimination is wrong. The VVD will always speak out against discrimination. The coalition agreement is therefore also clear. Labour market discrimination is unacceptable and requires a firm approach. I quote: 'The Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination will be continued under the direction of the Secretary of State, including the fight against discrimination in application procedures and a strong enforcement role for inspection'. I look forward to drawing up the action plan which will shortly be sent to the Chamber. The temporary agency sector also has a huge responsibility in tackling labour market discrimination. It is a good thing that discrimination has come out in the temporary employment agencies. Discrimination is, of course, unacceptable. And it is so shocking that a broadcast of Radar is needed to wake up the broadcasting industry. As a result, the ABU and the NBBU have taken a number of additional measures, including finally checking for their own rules, namely having an anti-discrimination plan and implementing it with members. Good thing there's a plan, but that's really the first step for us. The broadcasting industry must be very aware that this paper plan cannot and should disappear in a drawer in the archive. Packing and executing is the only option. We will monitor the implementation of the measure closely and continue to draw the industry's attention to its responsibilities. Therefore, the VVD wants the State Secretary to monitor these measures and evaluate the results annually in conversation with the temporary agency organisations, after which she informs the Chamber. If the Secretary of State is prepared to do so, our question is. The VVD also wants the Secretary of State not only to increase the two temporary agency organisations together, but also to broaden the approach to clients and employers. The demands come from employers and they also have a role to play in tackling labour market discrimination. My question to the Secretary of State is whether this broadening will be reflected in the action plan. Mr President, I will conclude. Nor should we forget that discrimination is a broad social problem, which we cannot solve from above alone. We need society as a whole, including those who are unfortunately affected by discrimination based on origin, age, gender and orientation. Our call to them is: do not be discouraged and continue to strive for your own happiness. Fight and fight. Don't get caught up in a victim's role. Find opportunities. Don't put the magnifying glass on another, but look in the mirror. Develop yourself and grow into positions in society where you can force change. Be your own hero, because society needs you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u50	Mr Öztürk, you have one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u51	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u52	He spared it for you, Mr. El Yassini!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u53	Especially for Mr El Yassini. Your political leader Mr. Rutte said during the election, to get some right-wing votes, that Muhammad...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u54	Sorry, you have two more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u55	Okay. He said Muhammad had to fight himself. Mr El Yassini said that Radar was not really necessary. Discrimination is there, and it's been proven for years. Despite your party saying that discrimination has been around for years and that a lot of people of your origin are very hard to get a job from Moroccan origin, your party leader says Muhammad should fight in it. How can that be? Isn't that a little acceptance of discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u56	Like I said, discrimination is wrong. We will always speak out against that. At the same time, we are not the party that gets into the victim's role. We are the party of people who like to tackle, who go to work and fight. I think I'm just living proof of that, like you, because we're both MPs, and we should be proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u57	Finally, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u58	The people we're talking about are the people who aren't victims. Those are the people who just fight, who go to the temp agency, who want a job and who have a diploma. They're being discriminated against. So you're gonna have to put that victim story aside. They are told by your leader, who is currently Prime Minister of our country, that they must more or less accept discrimination, swallow it, and then take a job diving and swallowing it. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u59	That is not what Mark Rutte, our Prime Minister here in the Netherlands, says. He says it's wrong. It's really annoying. Discrimination isn't supposed to happen, but then we're all confronted with the fact that it does happen. If you have listened carefully to my text, you also heard that at the same time we are pleased that the measures are in place. A social problem can only be solved from within society. We also call on the Secretary of State to monitor this and inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u60	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u61	Mr. Chairman. Discrimination at temp agencies just happens. Radar proved that again. Employers who pay just decide. Discrimination is just normalized. I look around and I think: who in this room has once been discriminated against at a temp agency? Mr. El Yassini, have you ever been discriminated against? Mr. Van Dijk? Or the minister? Have you ever missed a job at a temp agency? I do. I've personally experienced labour market discrimination. I'm disappointed, though, in running out of a temp agency. Despite a large number of vacancies, I was told that nothing was available. What I have experienced, many people experience daily in our society; young people who are born and raised here, who have diplomas, want to participate, want to build the country. They are literally and figuratively discriminated against every day. Today, we are still in the same discrimination crisis, despite the fact that the economy is going well, despite the need for people. The incidence of discrimination in 2017 is growing. The champion of the grounds of discrimination was already origin. Both the police and anti-discrimination services reported most of the reports about Dutch people with a migrant background. In the police, 41% of the discrimination registrations were about origin. In the case of anti-discrimination provisions, 38% of the reports received were on origin. At the internet discrimination hotline, 44% of the notifications related to the country of origin. Mr. Chairman. What matters is guts. Live to tackle labour market discrimination. Brave to make an act. Brave to take action. This cabinet indicates that it wants to tackle discrimination vigorously. We consider the proposed measures, the cabinet approach to discrimination, to be lean. Does the cabinet have the guts to exclude a number of temporary employment agencies from tendering for a year? Does the Cabinet have the guts to put a staff member out on the street just because he's discriminated against, even though he's a top official? Does the government have the guts to take on board and shaming employers who deliberately discriminate against them? That's the point. Mr El Yassini and Mr Peters, we have heard them all: approach, chain approach, dossiers... We've been through Asscher for five years. We have seen them all here: all files, approaches, beautiful television commercials, a number of rappers who participate. In the end, you just see that another research agency like Radar shows that the discrimination has not yet been dealt with. It's time to make an act. And how do you make an act? You kick the people out of the system who want to and knowingly discriminate. You show them: this happens to you if you discriminate. You're taking their jobs. But you're gonna need a cabinet to have the guts. My question is: does Minister Koolmees have the guts to do this? Mr. Chairman. In addition, we have seen that bankers took an oath when they were doing wrong. Perhaps it would be a good idea for temporary employment agencies to take an anti-discrimination oath on behalf of all employees. I suggest the Minister responds to that. I've also prepared a motion for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u62	Thank you. Then I'll see if the rulers need a brief suspension. Yeah? There's a little negotiation going on right now. You need 20 minutes? Shall we make that 15 minutes? Okay, then I'll basically suspend until 8:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u63	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start with a brief introduction and then go from narrow to broad, and then start with some intercedents. Several questions have been asked about this. Then what the temporary agency agencies and the temporary agency industry can do and possibly other clients and companies. Then the inspection and in the light of the inspection also the action plan, as announced. Then there are a number of other questions. But maybe start with an introduction first. We are discussing a very important subject today. A subject that is not for nothing in Article 1 of our Constitution. Discrimination and discrimination in the labour market must not be allowed. It's never allowed. Everyone has equal rights to equal opportunities to provide their livelihoods, to develop themselves and to build a life. We ask a lot of people when it comes to getting to work. We ask a lot when it comes to participation. We expect everyone to commit. We ask people to participate sustainably in the labour market. We ask people to take their responsibility there. On the other hand, a society must offer fair and equal opportunities and take firm action against discrimination. It is up to all of us, from the government, from employers, workers, civil society organisations, to continue addressing this problem but above all to continue to address it. In any case, I would also like to say that we cannot underestimate the importance of discussing this issue in this Chamber, that we, as politicians, are also expressing our opinion that on the one hand we are asking people to participate and, on the other hand, we are also giving the opportunity to do so. The reason for this debate was Radar's broadcast at the beginning of this year, which showed that almost half of the broadcasting establishments approached responded to a discriminatory request. I'm telling you honestly, I'm shocked by these results. It can and should not be the case that people based on their origins find it less easy to get a job. It is also particularly problematic because temporary employment agencies are a very important channel for Dutch people with a migration background for entry into the labour market. Unemployment among Dutch people with a non-Western background is two to three times greater than that of Dutch people without a migration background. This is also the reason, and the Minister will undoubtedly comment on it, that the further integration programme in the labour market is currently being launched. The unfortunately persistent problem of labour discrimination underlines why, in the coalition agreement with each other, but certainly also with parties outside the coalition here in the Chamber, we have included the ambition to combat labour discrimination in all forms. It's persistent. This also means that time is needed to look together with stakeholders at good measures to address the problem. It is important to stress that this is a broad social problem. Several of your MPs have done the same. Of the intercedents who participate in discriminatory requests to employers who initially make the request. The Radaruitz has shown that it is important to continue to pay attention to the problem of labour market discrimination. A very important part of this is the broadcasting industry itself. Combating discrimination works best when people and organisations feel responsible and start to tackle discrimination, not when it is dictated from above. I welcome the willingness of industry organisations ABU and NBBU to tackle discrimination in the broadcasting sector firmly. Both organisations have drawn up action programmes. They build on previous measures and have also been complemented by new measures. I look forward to seeing the results of these action programmes. I will say something about it later, but at least I will remain in conversation with the broadcasting industry. Not only the temporary agency industry has a responsibility to combat discrimination in recruitment and selection. The cabinet has also decided, as the government agreement states, to commit itself to this. One of the possibilities for this is the use of the Inspection SZW. The Inspection SZW can take a number of measures within the current legal framework. They can give follow-up to reports of discriminatory contracts. They can explore temporary employment agencies or receive intercedent instructions and whether policy in this area matters. Thirdly, the inspection SZW can involve the findings of self-regulation in the risk analysis and the determination of inspection deployment. Arrangements are made between the Inspection SZW, the NBBU and the ABU on how the findings are shared. I also announced in my recent letter to the Chamber that I intend to explore further possibilities to strengthen the enforcement role of the SZW Inspection in monitoring discrimination in recruitment and selection. This will provide you with the new Action Plan on labour market discrimination before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u65	If the Secretary of State looks back at Radar's broadcast, she'll know exactly how the editors handled it. The temporary employment agencies have been called and have been asked to exclude population groups. A large part of the temporary employment agencies were willing to do so. How is the Secretary of State going to fight such an incident if it happens again today or tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u66	I have a lot of answers in my head, but let me say this. We have the prohibition of discrimination in Article 1 of our Constitution. Prominenter can't do it. Despite this, discrimination is taking place. So I do not have the illusion here that a simple stroke of pens or a call from me could do something that a Constitution, which is so old and so anchored in our society, could not achieve or have not yet been able to achieve. What I can do is, with everything I have in me to fight for, we're going to an honest situation. One of the things I want to do for that is to work together. I've sat around the table with these organizations. I say it a little domestic, but I looked them in the eye to see: is this conversation a must for them or do they really want it? They really want it and they're working on it. I really think that's worth it. I also want to strengthen a number of issues in the area of enforcement, but I think the most important thing is that I have found partners who want to take the lead and say, "Here we are. This is our job. We may never be able to eliminate it altogether, but we want to go to a fair labour market where everyone has a chance."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u67	It's still a little vague. Look very concretely at what Radar has done. They asked: we want people, but not Turks or Moroccans, for example. The temporary employment agencies were prepared to do so in half of the cases. Are you going to make sure that that's not possible in the future? Should I rely on self-regulation? Of course the industry says: we will not allow that anymore! I understand that, but what does the government have to offer us to prevent this from happening in the future? Can the inspection play a role in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u68	The answer to that is yes. The inspection will play a role in this and already plays a role in it. However, we have agreed on this role with each other. We agreed with each other that employee and employer are the move. The precarious thing about the situation that Radar is showing is that we have part of the recruitment and selection policy in which that role is very diffuse. I want to see if you can actually fill that in. This is without prejudice to the role of the inspection, but the main and primary responsibility lies with the employer and in this case with the client.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u69	Now I really don't understand, because now you're saying two things. You say: yes, the inspection is going to maintain this. And you say that the inspection cannot maintain this at that stage. Are you going to ensure that the inspection can in future be enforced at the stage at which the commissioning authority is given to the agency, and that the inspection can also penalise that principal or the agency that goes along with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u70	Mr. Chairman. I indicated in my letter of 1 May that I would like to see whether and how you hear the difference in volume between 'or' and 'how' the inspection can play a further role in this. I just said that the Action Plan on Labour Discrimination is made up of more components. That'll be in the Chamber for the summer. I will respond to that, but I have highlighted this element. When it comes to the position of the enforcement inspection at all, the inspection has a role to play in this. But we also have to realize that we have 1.6 million companies in the Netherlands; even if you put an inspector on every corner of the street, you still can't get into people's heads to steer the right behavior. This means that, in addition to good legislation and regulation, and in addition to good enforcement, more is needed, namely a broader approach, in which I also need other partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u71	I have heard the Secretary of State well about these legal instruments of the Labour Inspectorate, and my expectations are high, however difficult it may be. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that one of the bottlenecks of the particular broadcasting sector that we need to look at is: how do we ensure that the signals from such clients who call also reach the labour inspectorate better? In addition to the legal instruments of the Labour Inspectorate, I find that really complicated: how do you ensure that the Labour Inspectorate is better informed? Now it was RADAR. How can we possibly get these signals? Does the Secretary of State agree with me that there is another gap here that we should try to fill, regardless of how exactly we are going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u72	Mr President, perhaps a little bit about that action plan. I have written very clearly: Mr Van Weyenberg says that he wants a concrete, robust action plan and that the actions still have to be worked out, but that his expectations are high. In any case, I can say that I have heard that message loud and clear. As regards his specific question, I share what Mrs Özütok said. She said that the worst thing about this, apart from the question itself, is the fact that people said: it is not allowed, but I will help you anyway. Which means we're really dealing with a deep-seated issue here. How can the inspection be better informed? As far as I'm concerned, by working with the industry. That is also by pointing out to people the possibility they have to approach the inspection. This can, of course, be done through a trade union or a works council. Then the inspection will also proceed to find cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u73	In order to prevent my interruption from getting too long, in my second term, I will come back to the question of how to further investigate how better to get that information at the inspection. I welcome the response to the action plan. That will be a long-term process. None of us are going to solve this repulsive problem with a tough remark, but I am pleased with this attitude. I therefore expect that we can really take steps in this direction. The need to strengthen the instruments of the labour inspectorate is a conclusion which I draw after all the debates on this matter, no matter how complicated the search for these instruments is.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u74	Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the one hand, the inspection can play a role. I want the Secretary of State to take a good look at that. This is likely to be complemented by concrete additions to the plan of action, the Employment Discrimination Action Plan. I look forward to it, but it is the responsibility of the temporary agency industry itself to do the following in the recruitment and selection: when intercedents hear that they are dealing with a discriminatory request, they must have the space to dance not just to the customer's heels. Then there must be insight, space and security within these agencies in order to engage in this discussion and to be able to take corrective action.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u76	I think it's a really nice call, which I'd also like to embrace. I think this also shows why you need to keep having the conversation. Can I briefly draw a parallel with what I recognize from my time in social services? When customer managers were on the phone with someone who was very aggressive, the people on that phone team sometimes had the idea: I have to stay on the phone. But if you told them to say, "If you don't talk to me normally, I'm hanging up now," they said, "Can I do that?" Yeah, you can. That is the way it should be when it comes to discrimination. If the leadership of a temp agency says to intercedents "the moment you get this question, you have to report it to me and then I just want you to say that we don't accept it," then people feel the room to do so. The important thing is that that conversation is started and that people are shown that they have that space.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u77	One more small question. Does the Secretary of State really feel that when she looks at the representatives of that industry, they are right behind this and that they are giving room to their employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u78	I have spoken with a broad representation of both domes. I would like to point out that there are also many temporary employment agencies that are not connected to a dome and that it is not always easy to pass everything one-on-one from a dome. But I'll start at step one. I've spoken to the domes. I've looked these people in the eye, and this conversation wasn't a must, as I just said. There were also people who, in addition to their sectoral membership, also occupy such a place in other places in society that I thought: well, you really have a heart for combating discrimination. So I looked them in the eye and we joined forces. I believe in that. I'm just not gonna promise it'll never happen again. Radar's broadcast also showed that the percentage has dropped, but I still think it's way too high. I do not think we should rest until it is completely eliminated, but it starts at step one. It started with that conversation. In any case, I have gained the confidence from that conversation to say in this Chamber that I would like to join forces with these parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u79	The Secretary of State has spoken harshly about tackling discrimination. That's right. Thank you for that. The powers of inspection are very important to tackle discrimination. The powers of the FIOD have recently been extended to eavesdropping and infiltrating where necessary. Are you prepared to extend the powers of the inspection to eavesdropping employers and temporary employment agencies where necessary in order to demonstrate discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u80	The inspection has a wide range of instruments. In addition, there are other organisations that can play a role in combating discrimination. Think of the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and, for example, the Human Rights College. They can also give an opinion in individual cases, while the inspection inspects only the policy and its elaboration. For the last reason, I am not in favour of eavesdropping. The inspection already has many other instruments at its disposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u81	The fundamental problem of discrimination is that it is very difficult to prove. A lot of people are pulling out because they can barely prove it. Those who discriminate are so professional that it is very difficult to prove. So you need other means in this case, the resources that the FIOD has been given to prove discrimination. Are you prepared to investigate that? Are you prepared to discuss the question of "inspection internally, do you need it?" Are you prepared to say internally: find out for a moment; would that perhaps be an opportunity to actually prove discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u82	I would be in favour of considering a large number of possible new measures, such as mystery calls and mystery guests. But allowing a listening device is a bridge too far for me, because the inspection oversees the policy and the College of Human Rights and the police, for example, in individual situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u83	The Secretary of State touched it for a while: she had a good conversation with the broadcasting domes. But we know that there are also a lot of unconnected temporary employment agencies. My question to the Secretary of State is: how are we going to take these non-member temporary employment agencies into account? How are we gonna get them to show that good behavior?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u84	That's a fair question. In reply to this, I would at least point out that the inspection can and will continue to be carried out with the other organisations. The good news, however, is that most of the people working in the temporary employment sector work at temporary employment agencies which are affiliated to these two domes. But it will also require the use of the inspection on organisations that are not covered by a dome.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u85	Mr President, I...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u86	I'm gonna turn on the mic. It is all because of Mr Van Weyenberg, who asked me something. Always.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u87	Eventually, it always comes from him. My concern, however, is with the non-member temporary employment agencies. I have already mentioned it in my contribution on the label, which in any case would have to be met by the non-member temporary employment agencies. It includes equal treatment, as well as a non-discrimination clause. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look at a tightening of that mark, to ensure that the non-member temporary agency agencies are also just going to behave nicely?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u88	I had prepared a wonderful answer to Mr Van Dijk's question on the label. I'm just trying to look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u89	Otherwise you will come back to this wonderful answer, if it is not immediately available.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u90	When it comes to the label, at some point you don't want to be like this. You want to join an organization that doesn't harm you as an entrepreneur. As far as I am concerned, it would also be a plea for organisations to either comply with a label or to join an industry, so that they can also demonstrate to the outside world that they are also acting socially responsibly. I'll give you some more on the label later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u91	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u92	Mr. Chairman. I was ready to answer the questions. I'll see if I've treated some of them and passed on to the interruptions. As has already been said, I am going to the inspection via the temporary agency sector and the temporary agency. I am also zooming in on the action plan and have noted a number of other questions. I shall begin with Mrs Özütok's question on what intercedents themselves can do, for example towards the College of Human Rights. Intercedents can report to the College of Human Rights, but they can also report to the ABU's own hotline. They can also go to municipal anti-discrimination facilities. They can't report themselves, but they can go to the police. The D.A. will determine what happens to that report. Mr Van Weyenberg asked if it was an idea to announce a duty to report to intercedents. I think that's an interesting thought. We also see in other sectors that a reporting obligation reduces the embarrassment of acts. If Mr Van Weyenberg thinks this is a good idea, I would like to include that proposal in the exploration that we have carried out to strengthen the enforcement of the inspection, as previously promised. I'm joining the temporary agency business. Questions have been asked about self-regulation. We have already had questions about this in interrupting debates. Mr Peters and Mr Gijs van Dijk, among others, have asked for this. Actually, the common thread of those questions was whether it would work now, because we've been seeing it for so long. I really recognize the feeling of: when is this urgency coming? Looks like it's missing. As I said, I had good discussions about this. In fact, I believe that the approach of the temporary agency industry may not be a sufficient condition for eliminating discrimination at work, but it is a necessary condition. Without that commitment, we can't do it. It is ultimately the managers and employees of the temporary employment agencies who can ensure the necessary change of behaviour in practice. The inspection SZW, which we have just had a little debate about, will carry out additional monitoring of the temporary agency industry within the current framework. Mr Gijs van Dijk also asked how independent supervision by the ABU and the NBBU is and whether the Inspection SZW should be given more possibilities. The Inspection SZW has contact with the ABU and the NBBU about their self-regulation. The finger is firmly held on the wrist. In setting up monitoring agencies, we will use the signals from self-regulation. The role of the Inspection SZW in recruitment and selection is, as mentioned above, currently being explored. In the action plan, which I will send before the summer, I will come up with more information on this. Mr El Yassini asked whether not only employment discrimination is taking place in temporary employment agencies, but also whether I am looking for broadening towards clients and other branches. I would like to point out in his direction that the government has included in the government agreement the ambition to tackle discrimination in recruitment and selection firmly. But again, I also taste the urgency wider in the Chamber. Here too, I refer to the elaboration of the Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination, which I would point out will not only be aimed at temporary employment agencies.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u93	Fine, this response by the Secretary of State. Just a brief enlightening question. It is good that it is included in the action plan, but we have, of course, seen that the broadcasting sector is also working. I would very much like the action plan to include the employers, the sponsors, in it as well. I want them to at least look at themselves and say, what could we possibly do? It must therefore not only be an action plan from the government, but also simply from society, from society. Is the Secretary of State therefore going to have that conversation with SMEs Netherlands, VNO-NCW and other stakeholders in relation to the action plan, and is she going to ask them: this is what we are doing; what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u94	One of the key points of the inspection is to work with industry in terms of psychosocial workload, which includes discrimination at work. Yes, the inspection is a stick behind the door. He'll be able to pass fines. But we have noticed that it certainly works very well with benevolent organisations and industries to do it together. In that light, conversations take place and I can indeed promise that I will continue to do so. Mr. Chairman. Mr Peters asked whether employers are now being prosecuted. Employers can indeed be prosecuted if a charge against them is brought before a judge. It is up to the Public Prosecutor to determine in the first instance whether there is a possible criminal offence, which can then be brought before the court. I do not have any signals at the moment that have been reported as a result of Radar's broadcast. I say this in response to Mr Jasper van Dijk's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u95	But that's weird, isn't it? The Secretary of State began her speech by saying that she found the revelations shocking. Shouldn't action be taken on that? We've all been able to see what happened there. It was obvious that there was discrimination there. What can be done about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u96	As has also been pointed out earlier: however unsatisfactory it may sound in a debate like this, it is up to the inspection to monitor organisations and it is up to individuals to report or report what has happened to them. As far as I am concerned, that is not up to the inspection. It may be that a report is made on a broadcast. I do not know whether this has happened in this case. The wretched thing is that there's some kind of vacuum in the field of recruitment and selection. That's what the broadcast showed. Because who is the injured party? What is the name or situation of that person? That's exactly why I'm going to see if there's anything I can do to fill that vacuum. But the specific question was whether there was a report. I'm not familiar with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u97	Please continue. Yes, I see you looking, Mr. Van Dijk, but you're through.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u98	It's a hell of a job, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u99	But you still have a second term. Proceed, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u100	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Weyenberg asked if I would be willing to cooperate with the temporary agency industry to stay on top of it. In this context, I would also like to mention the Azarkan motion, which has been taken over by the Minister of the Interior and which I would also like to give effect to. I mentioned earlier that the Inspection SZW is in conversation with the broadcasting industry about, for example, the exchange of data. We will, of course, remain in conversation with the ABU and the NBBU and are also on top of that. I would also like to discuss monitoring in this context. Mr El Yassini has asked if I am prepared to hold an annual discussion with the industry and evaluate their policies. I would also like to reply with a firm 'yes'. I will continue to talk to the industry about discrimination in the broad sense. The inspection will also carry out additional monitoring within the current frameworks. Mr Peters asked about the label and whether you could draw any conclusions from such a mystery call. And how harsh are the consequences? Should there be a membership requirement? Several MPs asked for that. At least the ABU is going to work with a mystery call investigation. I think that's a good development. ABU members are subject to periodic audits through an audit body, checking for different collective agreements standards. A new membership requirement for the ABU is to conduct and maintain an active anti-discrimination programme. That will also be part of the audit. If companies fail to comply with the membership requirement, they will receive a warning. If they fail to carry out an additional audit, it will result in expulsion. That applies to all members. I think it is very important that you also link the existence of an active anti-discrimination policy to expulsion, otherwise you will have beautiful words but not a stick behind the door. Unfortunately, the practice shows that this is not always sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u101	Thank you for that answer. I asked a question about this. This means that it is tighter than it was in the letter of the Chamber, where repeatedly failing to meet in the extreme could mean loss of membership. So it's fixed in one go. If you don't fix it, you'll just lose your membership. So it's not an option anymore, it's a hard part. I understand the Secretary of State isn't about this part of the ABU, but that's how I'd do it. I hope that the Secretary of State will do the same, because, as she has just put it, I already have a little more confidence than the rather cautious wording in the letter of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u102	As far as I understand it, however, I would certainly like to check this, so that I can certainly say this in committee in the second term, as far as the ABU is concerned, that you will receive a warning if you do not meet the requirements in an audit. There's an extra audit after three months. If you fail, you will be disbarred. That's the ABU. At the NBBU, members are required to conduct business with a view to combating discrimination. There is also an external independent auditor and mysterycalls are also used. Here comes the company in an improvement process. If the improvement path indicates that the company has failed, appropriate measures shall be taken to prevent that from happening next time. If the improvement process does not lead to the intended result, termination or withdrawal from the membership of the NBBU will follow. The first one might sound a little more energetic than the second one. In anticipation of a second interruption by Mr Van Weyenberg, which he may no longer have, I would therefore like to say that I am involved in the annual monitoring to see whether this policy is helpful or perhaps needs to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u103	I'll come back to the point I just made. I am a temp agency, I am a member of the ABU and I do not behave; then I am expelled at some point. I'll be a temp agency again. And then what? Then I can continue my practices. Who, besides the inspection, then forces me to take policy, mystery calls or take extra action? There's a bit of a gap: what are we going to do about these unconnected employment agencies?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u104	That's what the inspection collects signals about. Let me just say very personally that I understand that we sometimes think of that: is that enough? Then I can say that we have an additional 50 million in the coalition agreement, that we are going to prioritize it and that it is going to work healthy, safe and fair, which includes this. But reality also requires that I cannot put an inspector on every corner of the street and not in every company. So yes, the inspection will see to this and yes, people can send signals themselves through the works council or through a union at the inspection and they can go to the police or to the Human Rights College, but guarantees that it will never happen again, unfortunately I cannot give them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u105	Finally, Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u106	That is why we know that the affiliated temporary agency agencies are now working. We are going to sit very tight on that from The Hague, so that this is really going to happen. But there is a fallback option for the non-member temporary employment agencies, namely that mark. With the SNA label you get tax exemption and you can behave like a temporary agency. This label also has a number of basic principles including: do not discriminate. Can't we just look at that? Can we not tighten that mark so that we can make sure that there is real improvement in this whole sector, which is not connected to the domes, or indeed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u107	I try to think along with Mr Gijs van Dijk, because I share his concerns. I'm gonna take a look at the SNA hallmark. That is the mark of the Stichting Normaling Arbeid. That mark is intended to reduce labour law and tax risks of workers and employers. In order to have that quality mark, companies must be checked at least twice a year. The label then sends signals to the Tax Administration and the Inspectorate SZW about companies that do not comply with it. So it might be that we'll at least find a way to see to this. Despite the simple fact that you don't belong to a dome or that you don't want to connect to an industry, you can still stay in the picture to pick up signals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u108	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u109	I had another question from Mrs Özütok about the number of notifications and the follow-up. How many fines have been imposed by the SZW Inspection? As far as I am aware, the SZW Inspection has no reports of discriminatory temporary employment agencies. That is also a bit of the fact that the Inspection SZW is not competent for recruitment and selection. For this, applicants can go to the College of Human Rights. This is reflected, for example, in the action plan on discrimination sent by the Minister for the Interior. The Inspectie SZW does look at the position of intercedents. He looks at how they are trained and instructed on how to deal with discriminatory requests. Then the Inspection SZW can perform. For the part relating to recruitment and selection, I refer to previously given answers. I have already exchanged views with Mr Van Weyenberg on the new Action Plan on labour market discrimination which will be sent to the Chamber before 1 July. It sets out three pillars: knowledge and awareness, research and monitoring and enforcement. I would also like to work on a very solid implementation plan for this action plan. I believe that we can only address this problem effectively and sustainably when there is a broad sense of urgency among the public authorities, but also among employers, intermediaries, staff officers, social partners and other stakeholders. Mr Gijs van Dijk immediately imposed an obligation to achieve results on that action plan and asked when it would result. I like that. I agree with Mr Gijs van Dijk that the action plan should also show results. In the action plan, therefore, I will focus on how we can evaluate the activities. Mr Öztürk of DENK has asked whether I can guarantee that the government no longer deals with temporary employment agencies that have been convicted of discrimination. I can tell him that since 2015 it has been a government policy not to enter into agreements with companies that have been irrevocably convicted of discrimination. Current agreements shall also be terminated immediately in the event of an irrevocable criminal conviction, if legally possible. Finally. Mr Van Weyenberg asked if I could show anything earlier on the issue of transparency. It is about the disclosure of data at company level, up to the company level traceable inspection data, so to speak. The results of this investigation will be co-determine for possible disclosure under the Arbowet. This investigation is ongoing and therefore I cannot decide on any disclosure earlier. Maybe it's nice to make a comparison that we can't sit here on the judge's seat from the inspection. That is what I need the evaluation of the Law's approach to fake constructions for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u110	The last question. Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u111	Many inspection reports and actions undertaken by the inspection will be made public, but not everything in the Arbo area, including the approach to employment discrimination. I have considered asking for more pace, but I am also aware of how much data this is about, including the regular working conditions policy. Would it be possible to ask the Secretary of State to make a cut in the evaluation and in particular the appreciation of this between the regular policy on health and safety at work, which is also very important, and this kind of subject matter? Here, naming-and-shaming is of real political importance. Could you make that distinction? I am waiting for the outcome, but I understand that there is a difference whether you do it for 15,000 occupational data or for real specific labour market discrimination, because there is taking-and-shaming of even more value than the other subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u112	I do not want to pre-empt the conclusions for taking-and-shaming, because I think there are steps for it, but I certainly want to involve it in evaluation and in this way appreciate it in order to separate it from the rest of the working data.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u113	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Not a lot of questions have been asked to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u115	Still, you're gonna say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u116	And yet I'm going to say something, because I do have something to say. The Secretary of State rightly said in her introduction that we are talking today about a major and persistent problem, namely labour market discrimination. It has become very clear today that everyone in this Chamber finds that unacceptable. I liked Mr Peters' wording: we should not see this as a fact of life, which is really unacceptable. Over the last few months, as Minister responsible for integration, I have had a lot of discussions with young people with a migrant background who experience in practice what it is like to be faced with labour market discrimination. You can see that the consequences on the labour market are considerable. You can see that people feel that they do not get opportunities, cannot participate and that their talents and ambitions are not honored, are not seen and cannot be fulfilled. It has implications not only for the labour market, but also wider consequences. It's about distrust, prejudice and discomfort. The cabinet believes it is important that, in these economically good times, we start working on the labour market that creates opportunities for people who are still on the sidelines. That is why, in addition to the policy that the Secretary of State has just vigorously defended on the Employment Discrimination Action Plan, we have announced the approach to employment agencies, but also the increased role of the SZW Inspection, including the VIA programme, Further Integration in the Labour Market. At the end of March, I sent a letter to the Chamber with the ambitions in it. The underlying analysis is that not everyone gets or takes the opportunity to show and develop their talents. This is particularly true for Dutch people with a migration background. Just a few digits. Dutch people with a non-Western migration background are two to three times as often unemployed as Dutch people without a migration background. This group is over-represented in the assistance. Moreover, the asylum status holders also appear to be too often and for too long in the assistance. That's why the cabinet thinks it's important that we make real meters here. As Mr El Yassini said in his first term, we ask a lot of people. We ask people to join us and learn the language. This also means that these people should be given the opportunity to do something with it in Dutch society. Hence the further integration into the labour market. What is special about this is that we have made 10 million available to see which policies work in practice. We have a lot of scientific research and insights, but what tools can you use for specific target groups to really make a difference? In the coming period, we will start working on those experiments, with those evidence-based scientific insights. Mr Jasper van Dijk is very much in favour of this, I know from previous debates. This will enable us to see how we can develop an effective policy in this area. I would just like to say a few words about the focus on employers. I will shortly have a general discussion with your Chamber on the letter Further Integration in the Labour Market, in which I will go into the action plan more broadly. But it is precisely in the case of discrimination that the role of employers is important. It is, for example, about discrimination in recruitment and selection. In many cases it happens consciously, but it also happens unconsciously. Then it's about prejudices that employers aren't even aware of when selecting. It is precisely awareness in the recruitment and selection process that is extremely important to be able to offer opportunities. For example, we go together with employers and intermediaries to find methods of recruitment and selection based on behavioral science, precisely to try to remove prejudices at the front. Selection tools, an improved introduction to work visits, ministrations and speeddates: they are all innovative methods to try to remove prejudices from employers and thereby give people with a migration background a greater chance of participating in the labour market, precisely because discrimination is not only an economic but also a social waste of talent. Mr Öztürk has already walked to the interrupting microphone, but he has also asked a question about the courage of the cabinet. I think that's a fair question. In fact, we have so much courage that we have included in the coalition agreement that we really want to take big steps in the coming period. The Secretary of State has just mentioned the action plan on labour discrimination and the role of the SZW Inspection in addressing temporary employment agencies. The Minister for the Interior has also sent a major national action programme on combating discrimination to your Chamber, which I will be discussing shortly. With VIA, further integration in the labour market, I am trying to change policies and choices in front of it, in order to bring about a structural, sustainable change. That didn't happen overnight. It's a long-term policy. We need to understand what works and what does not, and what the good interventions are. But I think that with the coalition agreement and all the plans that we have also reviewed today, we, as a cabinet, have the courage to address this important issue, for which there is broad support in the Chamber. Finally, I had two specific questions. One belonged to Mr Jasper van Dijk. He's out of interruptions, so he can't ask through anymore. I find that reassuring.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u117	You can now say anything to Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u118	Isn't it gonna be entrapment? His question was about the licensing system. I have discussed this before with Mr Jasper van Dijk. One of my first oral questions in Question Time dealt with this. At that time, I also said that the licensing system was abolished in 1998, precisely because there were bad experiences in previous years with crooked employment agencies. The self-regulation that we introduced after that is, of course, not perfect, but certainly has real advantages, as temporary employment agencies are involved in enforcement in practice. So we do not want to go back to the licensing system as applied for 1998. Mr Jasper van Dijk knows that too, because I have already discussed this with him twice. I believe that these were the specific questions that have been put to me, but I see that Mr Öztürk has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u119	I see a huge drive from both the Secretary of State and the Minister to tackle labour market discrimination. Thank you for that. New energy, new momentum, that's very good. The combination of VVD and D66 is also very good, with a bit of employers and a bit of bureaucrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u120	But I prefer wise policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u121	I think it's important to address one's own ranks. But I miss...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u122	I thought you gave such a nice compliment, but here it comes...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u123	Then there will indeed be a somewhat unpleasant comment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u124	Again. Come on, Mr. Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u125	Ha! Now it's going to be very difficult to close down, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u126	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u127	I miss the penalty measure, the taking-and-shaming for those who continue to discriminate after all these fine policies and hand-outs. There must also be a penalty. I miss that part.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u128	I think the Secretary of State has just explained this in detail. Discrimination is prohibited. You can go to court, you can go to Human Rights College to get you right. There's a penalty for that. That is what all the initiatives we have been through this evening are for. The problem is precisely what Mr Van Weyenberg called the "maintaining hole." How are we going to use the signals that are there, which I also hear from young people with a migration background, which I often talk about, in practice to make policy better? That is what all these initiatives, which we have been passing through this evening, are for, to close that gap and, in practice, really do something about combating discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u129	One final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u130	The fundamental problem of discrimination, as I have just said, is proof of it. That's very difficult, unfortunately. The public needs the help of the cabinet. I have also put forward ideas for this, such as eavesdropping and deployment of the FIOD and so on. The citizen needs that support. At the same time, a number of business or staff managers who deliberately discriminate, must also be dismissed and dealt with thoroughly. I ask the Minister once again to return to the Chamber with policy for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u131	I shall end up in a repeat of moves, because the Secretary of State has also just answered this. Discrimination is prohibited and the judge can judge and punish people. In practice, it is precisely the signals that are there, but which do not reach the enforcement authorities, such as the SZW inspection. Through a wide range of measures, we are trying to improve this. This also ensures, for example, a willingness to report, so that people who are faced with discrimination can actually get their rights. I do not think that Mr Öztürk should underestimate this, because that is precisely the grey area, that enforcement hole, as Mr Van Weyenberg called it, where we really need to do something about structuralally doing something about labour market discrimination. I do not believe that everything can always be solved with stricter penalties.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u132	Obviously, thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their comprehensive response and their commitment to tackling discrimination in the labour market. I have great appreciation for that. I'm anxiously waiting for the plans to continue. As a result of the debate here, I still have a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the inspection does not now have sufficient powers to monitor recruitment and selection policies;]] [[noting that it is being explored whether the enforcement role of the Inspection SZW can be strengthened;]] [[calls on the government to include the deployment of mystery guests and mystery calls in this exploration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-823]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u134	I had four, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u135	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u136	Let me get this straight. You state that the mystery guest must also be used. Do you mean from the inspection or from the sector? Because in the measures we see that the mystery guests and mystery calls are correctly deployed from the sector and that at some point this is being looked at together with the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u137	No, it is also clear from the inspection, because it could play a more enforcing role in recruitment and selection. She will also be able to see what is going on in the recruitment and selection process. It will then be necessary for it to be able to use these instruments as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u138	To clarify, the inspection must do the mystery calls.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u139	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u140	Then I'm curious to hear the Secretary of State's reply on...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u141	Thank you, Mr. El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u142	No, Madam President, this is important. I...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u143	No, no, no, Mr. El Yassini. I'll give you the floor. Thank you. Thank you, Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u144	You're about to get the motion. It's literally in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u145	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Van Weyenberg, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to both rulers for their response. I'm happy with a few promises. Colleagues El Yassini and Peters also talked about it: the Secretary of State will actively monitor that the agreements and actions of the ABU and the NBBU are being implemented seriously in practice and also have teeth. I am also saying this in the direction of some people who follow the debate from the public gallery. I mention the publication of the inspection report, where you can also look specifically at labour market discrimination in which I consider taking-and-shaming important. And I mention the commitment already made or near commitment on the capacity of the discrimination unit. Mr. Chairman. I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that discriminatory requests to temporary agency companies are a persistent problem;]] [[Whereas such requests do not reflect the group which is disadvantaged and therefore cannot mention discrimination;]] [[Whereas the Inspection SZW is unable to maintain in individual cases but in the conduct of anti-discrimination policies;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how a notification of discriminatory requests to temporary agency companies can contribute to more targeted research by the SZW into labour market discrimination, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Peters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-824]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u147	Mr. Chairman. This is part of the broader palette for me to look at the instruments of the Inspection SZW. This is both a legal basis and the question of how to ensure that signals reach the labour market as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u148	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the directors for the first-term response. I believe that the ambitions of this cabinet are clear and that they are also in line with ours, with those of the Labour Party. We must tackle this together and ensure that this labour market discrimination is eliminated for good. So thank you for that. I still have a concern about the unattached employment agencies. I also exchanged that in my interruptions with the Secretary of State. These are the temporary agency agencies which are not members of the two umbrella organisations that are now going to implement active policies. That's why I still have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a large proportion of temporary employment agencies go along with discriminatory requests;]] [[noting that many temporary employment agencies are not members of the temporary agency umbrella;]] [[Whereas these temporary employment agencies can be reached through the SNA label;]] [[calls on the Government to strengthen the SNA label with an active anti-discrimination policy so that discrimination can be eliminated in all temporary employment agencies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-825]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u151	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Peters on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As Mr Van Dijk has just said, discrimination in the labour market is seen as a major problem in the Chamber. There is now a coalition agreement, there are plans, there is a letter, there are agreements with the industry, there will be a detailed action plan and the necessary commitments have also been made today. As Mr Van Weyenberg said, the agreements that have been made are not without obligation. The Secretary of State has indicated that she is figuratively on top of that. She'll keep us posted. I very much supported Mr Van Weyenberg's motion because we would like to extend the instruments of inspection. In any case, we would like to examine whether a notification would help. I actually had a motion that would call on the Secretary of State to take us with him and continue to monitor us very strongly. But given the commitments, I find them superfluous and I do not submit them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u153	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u154	Mr. Chairman. A key question of this debate is: will discrimination as shown in Radar's broadcast now be prevented? I am not convinced of this after the government's reply. That's why I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas many temporary employment agencies are prepared to discriminate;]] [[noting that the Inspection SZW has no powers to maintain recruitment and selection;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the powers of the SZW Inspection are extended, so that recruitment and selection can also be checked and temporary employment agencies that have been punished in violation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-826]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u155	The other motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Radar has shown that almost half of temporary employment agencies are prepared to discriminate;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of prosecuting these temporary employment agencies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-827]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u156	I also had a motion on the introduction of a licensing system, but I will submit it at another time if we discuss it. One more question, because I see I have 20 seconds left. Will the results of the exploration be included in that action plan, or will it be announced in that action plan that there will be a reconnaissance? I'd like to get a comment on that. I had asked the Minister what additional points the inspection will take on, as announced in the letter. That's not quite clear to me either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u157	Thank you. Mr El Yassini on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u158	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start with a point of order. During the debate we are discussing an important subject. Then it is also very important to be able to find each other in that or to talk to each other about, for example, motions. It would be such a shame if we were not given the opportunity to do so, especially since I was fairly calm during the debate. So I would like to call on the President to give a little more room for manoeuvre in the future. Coming back on my...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u159	Before continuing: you have had all the space to interrupt. This is a second deadline, so you can ask one question, like everyone else, to explain a motion or to get some question answered, but you have no more rights than the rest. So everyone has the same rights, including you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u160	No, I get that. But again, when I'm working on a clarification point...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u161	I'm not gonna argue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u162	Yeah, but you're answering, so I think I'm gonna go into that, too. In any case, I would ask you to deal with this more coulantly in future, especially when we are talking about clarification of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u163	I'm in charge of order, so that's what you have to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u164	Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on. I would like to thank both the Minister and the Secretary of State for their reply. I am very pleased that the Secretary of State is working on this and that she is looking for a broadening of the anti-discrimination action plan. That's very good. What I am very pleased with is something to which we, as a Chamber, have often been annoyed by. We have a debate and then it falls silent and happens again in three years, after which we are working again. What I find so cool is that the Secretary of State is now saying that after a year she talks with the industry organisation to really see what the measures have been and what they look like, after which the Chamber will also be informed. That also keeps us sharp, so thank you for that. We are looking forward to the anti-discrimination action plan and we are also monitoring it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u165	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State said she spoke to industry organisations and looked them in the eye. She's made a deal and expects them to keep the deal. We have also seen in the banking sector that a lot of bankers have gone wrong in the end even though they have made agreements. Then a banker's oath came up. Later, they sent the banker's oath to all employees; hence, in the first term, I was talking about an anti-discrimination oath for the temporary agency industry. I have a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the examination of the Radar programme shows that discrimination by temporary agency agencies is a persistent problem;]] [[Whereas, in order to achieve a change in the financial sector, bankers must take an oath or promise;]] [[considers that an oath or a promise can also be used to combat discrimination by temporary employment agencies;]] [[calls on the Government to make a proposal to allow temporary agency staff to take an "anti-discrimination oath,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-828]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u167	Thank you. The last motion will be copied and distributed. Need a short five-minute suspension? Then I suspend for five minutes; really five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u168	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u169	Thank you, Mr President. I have another question from Mr Jasper van Dijk and then another six motions for a resolution. Mr Jasper van Dijk asked: what about the action plan and the exploration? Several questions have been raised in the debate. We come before the summer with an Action Plan on labour discrimination. This action plan will be followed up by an implementation plan after the summer. The choice of measures, what we're going to do, is in the plan that comes before the summer. How we're going to do that is in the implementation plan. I intend to send that to the Chamber in November. But the main plan of action will come to the Chamber before the summer and you will find what we are going to do. Then I'll get to the motions. The motion in part No. 823 by Mrs Özütok and Mr Gijs van Dijk request that mystery guests and mystery calls be included in the exploration. That is in line with my previous commitments, and therefore I can give this motion a Chamber judgment. In the exploration or in the action plan, I look at forms of anonymous control, including this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u170	Judgement Room, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u171	Judgement Room, yes. The motion in part No. 824 by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Peters: how can reporting on discriminatory requests contribute to more targeted research? I'd like to give that motion a Chamber of Commons. I also take this into account in the action plan. As we are going to determine what is to be done, I would like to make it very formal that this motion says how this notification will take shape. I would also allow the Chamber to decide whether or not to do so, but it is ultimately up to the Chamber to decide. This motion I give judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 825 by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mrs Özütok are about the SNA mark, which we have also had an interruption debate on. I must advise against this motion, firstly because it is up to the sector to get to work on it. This is a private label. However, I have indicated that I am engaged in extensive discussions with the sector on initiatives. I do share the concerns expressed by Mr Gijs van Dijk in his speech. I have equally zoomed in on the essence of the label. The label has already established that you will be kicked out of the label if you are convicted of discrimination. So in that sense, I do think the label is important for the industry, but the motion must be discouraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u172	I realise that this is not up to the government and that the motion in that sense is therefore a little sharply formulated. But is the cabinet prepared to discuss this with the sector? The motion actually says: do something more than just act on a conviction and also see if you can include anti-discrimination clauses or policies. That's how the two domes are doing it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u173	I would like to raise the issue of consultation with the sector, but I must make sure that, because I am so sympathetic to Mr Van Dijk's concerns, I promise things that I cannot live up to. It's a private label, so I'm not going over it in that sense. I can arrange it in consultation with the sector, but what they end up doing with it... I don't want to make promises I can't keep. Then it's gonna stay with that meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u174	What are you going to do, Mr. Van Dijk? I can see you thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u175	I'm just thinking. I can amend the motion and ask the cabinet to actually enter into the consultation and have this conversation. Or if that's the promise now, I can withdraw the motion. But I'd like to go to the sharpness, because I really think it's important. "We're gonna talk about it" is a little too thin for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u176	I can't do anything with the label myself. The industry must also want to be part of the label itself. In that sense, I just don't want to make empty promises. I can set it up for a meeting. I know that I speak with domes and that Mr Gijs van Dijk's concern is right with the organisations that are not affiliated. I don't want to make him happy with a dead sparrow. I want to do everything I can to put this issue on the agenda for the industry, but I don't want to make promises I can't keep. So I'm afraid I'm gonna have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u177	Mr Van Weyenberg on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u178	Look, that SNA hallmark is made by domes. The Secretary of State is absolutely right. Let me see if I understand her correctly. She says she wants to talk. Then I could imagine her saying in that conversation: boys, here is the risk that those outside the domes will do this. Is it not wise to embed the broader policy in that mark? I have a feeling that there will be some kind of sympathetic reaction to that. If they don't want to, I understand it's not up to the Secretary of State, but would she like to make that call? I'm not trying to make it too big. I think this is what Mr Van Dijk is looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u179	Can I say something very practical? If Mr Gijs van Dijk amends his motion, I am prepared to see if I can give a different opinion on it before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u180	Is that what you're gonna do, Mr. Van Dijk? I see him nodding. Okay, then the motion becomes part no. 825 amended. What if that motion isn't changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u181	Well, I'm afraid I'm gonna keep dissuading it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u182	Okay, then that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u183	I will provide an additional response to the amended motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u184	Yes. I'll see you next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u185	Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 826 by Mr Jasper van Dijk, who says: extend the powers of the inspection SZW, so that recruitment and selection can also be checked. This is a subject that is addressed in the action plan. You have heard me say in the debate that I see in it whether and how I have said a little louder than we are going to shape it. I cannot anticipate that at the moment. That's why I have to discourage this motion. Then the motion to part No. 827 by Mr Jasper van Dijk, who asks to examine the possibilities of prosecuting temporary employment agencies. It's not up to the government, it's up to the state's attorney's office, based on declarations. That is why I must also advise against this motion. Then I have a motion from Mr Öztürk asking for an anti-discrimination oath to be taken by temporary agency staff. I advise against this motion. There is currently a comprehensive package of measures aimed at the employees of temporary employment agencies, including many training courses. I do not consider an anti-discrimination oath to be a supplement to that, and I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u186	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-05-22-tweedekamer-26.u187	That concludes this debate. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister, the Secretary of State, the Members of Parliament, the people who have followed the debate and the staff.
