ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-14.u1	I welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations in our midst. The next item is the report on general consultations held on 14 March. I give the floor to Mr Bosma as the first speaker on the side of the Chamber. He's from the PVV. He has two minutes' speaking time, and so does the other Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-14.u2	Mr President, I apologize for ruining many people's night off. The Minister's gonna look angry right away. Sorry, I won't do it again. Mr. Chairman. At least Wednesday's gonna be a beautiful day. The party of democracy. We get to vote, and that's always a party. In the past, however, a lot has gone wrong in voting. Sometimes tens of thousands of votes were not counted, then questions were asked at the voting machines, then the whole family was in the voting booths: there is always something. On Tuesday, RTL News reported that there is reason for a new concern: the software used to add the votes is not properly secured and unreliable. Exactly the problem that has been revealed in the past. You're holding your heart. However, this Minister has made all kinds of commitments. The Minister says all this; I quote: give me the confidence that the elections will go well. Fine, Mr. Chairman. The Minister solemnly promises us, by heart, that the elections will take place in an orderly manner. I've got a hard head in it. The Election Council also calls for new software. Apparently, that council also knows that the present one is no good. At least I'm calling on citizens to keep an eye on themselves. It would be good if Wednesday voters were present in the polling stations to watch. Anyone can do that. It's your right. It can start at 9:00 p.m. when the polling stations close. Mr. Chairman. I heard you can buy voice cards at the market place, Mr. Henk Krol, who is not there, whispered it to me in 18 municipalities. That's gonna come up for a drink. Does the Minister know anything about that? Because that would be a new hiccup in the voting process. But you can do that in between. In order to contribute to the maximum transparency there is, I would like to see the following. I have recorded it in a motion co-signed by Mr Van Raak, who is not there, by Mr Krol, who is not there and by Mrs Arissen, who is not there either. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Minister to engage with the municipalities in the forthcoming municipal elections in order to ensure that all records and all associated electronic files are actively made public,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Martin Bosma, Mr Van Raak, Mr Krol and Mr Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VII-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-14.u3	Thank you, Mr President. The speaker below, of the VVD, will table a motion that sees that municipal councils can also employ people from outside the board for example the chairing of committees. That's gonna mean a lot to small city councils. That is why we wholeheartedly support this proposal from the VVD. Mr. Chairman. I would like to come back to a point that we discussed in the AO and that was the test of voting on Saturday. In the meantime, we have quite rightly had different reactions, including from organizations from the Jewish community, saying that voting on Saturday is a problem for people celebrating the Sabbath. We are used to taking account of each other in this country and enabling everyone to participate in elections. The CDA also sees practical problems if, for example, voting or counting would take longer than hoped and one should continue on Sundays. I would therefore very much like to ask the Minister to take back the commitment to hold a test with votes on Saturday. I understand that the Minister, like us, is concerned about whether we can find enough volunteers to shape the whole organisation, at the polling stations and when counting the votes. But as far as we are concerned, the test goes too far by voting on Saturday. I would like to receive the Minister's undertaking that she will refrain from doing so. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-14.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. I give the floor to Mr Koopmans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-14.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to endorse what Mr Van der Molen said about the idea of voting on Saturday. The Sabbath on Saturday is a very important day for a lot of people. It is therefore important that we do not propose to vote on that day. So my support for what has just been said. In fact, Mr Albert van den Bosch would be standing here, but he is, perhaps in the context of democratic renewal, currently in Russia, observing there. That is why I am tabling a motion on his behalf, which unfortunately bears not his name but mine, alongside that of Mr Van der Molen, Mr Jetten and Mrs Van der Graaf. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, pursuant to Article 82 (4) of the Municipal Act, a chairman of a council committee must be a member of the municipal council;]] [[Whereas, in view of the time scale, it is a major burden for council members in smaller municipalities and in smaller groups to chair council committees;]] [[noting that the failure to submit the draft Experimentenwet municipal councils does not yet allow for the establishment of appropriate rules for the chairing of council committees;]] [[calls on the Government to submit before the summer recess a legislative proposal to amend the Municipal Act allowing Council committees to be technically chaired by non-Council members,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Koopmans, Mr Van der Molen, Mr Jetten and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VII-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-14.u6	The purpose of this motion is therefore to strengthen the power of local democracy. Thank you, and I thank the Minister once again for her earlier answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-14.u7	Thank you, Mr. Koopmans. I give the floor to Mrs Özütok van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-14.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We spoke yesterday about the concerns that exist about the determination of the election results. Hackers and IT experts have doubts about the software. GroenLinks believes that these concerns should be taken seriously. The Minister said yesterday that she does have confidence in the software. In the interests of fair and secure election results, I would once again ask the Minister to remind municipalities of the vulnerabilities and concerns that exist so that they can take all necessary measures to secure the outcome. I have considered tabling a motion on this, but in the interests of the elections I assume that it is not necessary. This Wednesday must remain a celebration of democracy. I would therefore ask the Minister to say here that she once again informs the municipalities well on this section. We also discussed the common arrangements during the AA. GroenLinks is concerned about democratic control of the regulations. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many municipalities are too small to carry out care tasks themselves and that they seek cooperation with (neighboring) municipalities in common arrangements;]] [[Whereas city council members, especially those of smaller municipalities, do not always have a clear view of how taxpayers' money is used in the social domain;]] [[Whereas this may conflict with the budgetary and control rights of democratically elected municipal council members and this does not benefit the functioning of local democracy;]] [[Considering the lack of time, resources and support available to municipal council members of particularly small municipalities to make a good assessment of complex partnerships in the social domain;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with the UNG and the Councillors' Association of Interests in order to identify the obstacles in the decision-making process and thereby in democratic control of the expenditure of resources and the performance of tasks and to identify concrete measures that could remove these obstacles and to inform the Court of Justice thereof before 1 July 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok and Mr Den Boer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VII-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-14.u9	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union is looking back on a good exchange of views that we had yesterday, including the concerns about voting next week. The Minister has shown that she wants to do everything in her power, to do everything in her power and to take steps to ensure that we can safely go to the ballot box and that the election results can really be beyond any doubt. That's an important signal for next week. Yesterday, in the context of democratic renewal, we also called for attention to be paid to involving young people in politics and democracy. We can see that there is still a gap between young people and local democracy and democracy in general. That is why yesterday the Christian Union proposed that I should like to give this a place in a motion today to give young people the opportunity to fulfil their social service, a plan that this cabinet is working on, in local or regional government, for example as a citizen's council member. In this way they can make a real contribution to democracy. We think this is a good idea and we really think that this is a step in the right direction to reduce the gap between young people and democracy. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet intends to establish a social service for young people with the aim of enabling young people to contribute to society;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of young people fulfilling their social service as a political service right in local or regional government in the development of social service;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VII-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-14.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll take the questions of the members. A number of questions have been asked and a number of motions have been tabled in this VAO. I start with Mr Bosma, who said that the Election Council said he wanted to renew the software. I'd like to confirm that again. That's right. So that's what we're working on. We talked about that in the AO. It'll take time. The requirements need to be clear, the software needs to be developed and tested and the law needs to be amended. Hence that can't happen overnight, but renewal of the software is the goal. I agree with him. I would also like to emphasise his second point. It is true that everyone is allowed to be present at the count. I have promised Mr Krol in the AO that we will point that out again in the newsletter, which I intend to send tomorrow. It may be assumed to be known at the polling stations, but we will bring it to the attention of the public again. Finally, Mr Bosma's question about the message on the Internet, which I have also seen, that voting cards would be for sale. Of course, I do not know if the message is correct, but if it were, it would be reprehensible. When voting, the voter must also show an ID; we all know that. If someone came with a voting card from another person without the corresponding identity card, it would be seen at the polling station and voting would be stopped. If this message is true, it would of course be a very undesirable practice. We will, of course, look at this in the light of the reports. I'll deal with the motions in one go. I'm gonna do the questions first. Mr Van der Molen's question concerned the small debate we had in the AA on the concerns of D66, then expressed by Mr Jetten. Today, D66 was represented by Mr Van Weyenberg. D66 raised two problems: the turnout rate, which is a focus, because that is falling across the board, and that is undesirable, and finding enough people to count the votes and the people of the polling stations. He suggested that we could not see if we could do something about this, for example by examining, in consultation with the VNG, at the reclassification municipalities, whether a test could be carried out on Saturday. I said then, while I had looked around the room a little bit: if there is no objection in itself, I would be happy to enter into that conversation with the VNG. But I very much agree with Mr Van der Molen that in the Netherlands we have a good tradition of observing religious rest days and that Saturdays do not relate well to that. I would therefore like to say that we agree that these volunteers and the attendance rate are concerns of many of us, but this should not jeopardise the respect of those rest days.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-14.u11	Madam Secretary. Your answer gives rise to an interruption by Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-14.u12	I agree with the Minister that the plans or talks should not compromise that, but am I listening to her now that she will not work towards us doing a test with votes on Saturday? That's how I understand the Minister. I'd like to hear a confirmation that we're just not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-14.u13	I would point out to Mr van der Molen that my commitment was not to do a test, but to have a discussion with the VNG. I do not think it is very useful to include voting on Saturday in that discussion if it is already apparent that because of the religious day of rest, congregations will say that that is not a good day. In my view, then, we should abandon that idea and concentrate on what is important: to increase the turnout and to recruit enough volunteers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-14.u14	I can now hear the Minister say very clearly that we must abandon the idea. That means it's off the table. I thank the Minister for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-14.u15	Minister, you're continuing the response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-14.u16	I'd love to. Mrs Özütok van GroenLinks said that she would appreciate the concerns of the Chamber, also in connection with the discussion in the AA, about the forthcoming elections, the process of voting as it has been set up and counting and adding up, to the attention of the municipalities. As I said earlier in reply to Mr Bosma's question, I would like to send another newsletter to the municipalities. I am happy to convey the concerns to the municipalities on this point. Mr. Chairman. Then I guess I can get to the motions. There's a problem with the motion in part No. 61 by Mr Bosma and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) I agree with Mr Bosma that it should be as transparent as possible. And so we do, for example, by making the minutes available for inspection. There's no way we can do more than that under the current law. These are two laws: the Advisory referendum Act and the Election Act. The current legislation for both the consultative referendum and next week's municipal elections specifically states that the minutes are to be made available for inspection. So I can't realize, on the basis of the current law, that it's more than that. There's already an amendment to the Tickets Act in preparation. I said something about that last week. What can be done is to include in that amended Election Act that the minutes must be made public on the Internet. This could be done as a follow-up to an amended Election Act, but not, as the motion asks, for the forthcoming municipal elections. That's why I have to discourage motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-14.u17	If I understand correctly, the situation is now that some municipalities do and others do not. This varies from municipality to municipality. My proposal is to invite every municipality to do just that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-14.u18	I have to see whether Mr Bosma and I understand each other correctly on that point. It could be that he's referring to the electronic files. There we go. That's what municipalities can do. I would also like to call on municipalities to do so. But it is not possible for the minutes. So these are two different things that are governed by different rules. On the final objective, transparency, we agree, but I cannot ask for that report for next week, because that simply goes against the law. The motion in part No. 62 belongs to Mr Koopmans cum suis. This concerns the external chairman of council committees. We have also discussed this in detail in the AO. I understand the motion very well. I also understand the wish of the House of Representatives. I would like to say at this point that I leave the ruling on the motion to the Chamber. The discussion was not really about the desirability of the external chairman in council committees, but about how it could be legally implemented. I had said at the time that it might be possible to do so in the broader revision of the Community law. The Chamber is now saying: it must be faster. I understand that very well. If the motion is passed, I'd like to carry her out, too. In this sense, the motion supports the policy, but that judgment should no longer be given. I would like to give the Chamber the following, because of course it is going to vote on this motion. If it had to be done quickly, it would be an option for me to make a letter of amendment to an already pending legislative proposal to amend the Municipal Act. There is one, because we have the legislative extension waiver residence requirement for aldermen. That's ready for treatment. I think that is already on the agenda for next week. That is the first possibility I see of amending the Municipal Law on this point by letter of amendment. That way, I could implement the motion. But that obviously takes some time, because we have to do it carefully. Of course, this cannot be done if the amendment of the law is dealt with next week. It would therefore take some time to give me the opportunity to draw up a good letter of amendment and to apply a careful procedure. I think it could be before the summer recess, even well before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-14.u19	Mr. Koopmans, can the Minister interpret the motion in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-14.u20	I would like to thank the Minister for her positive comments on this motion, which is actually my colleague Van den Bosch's. I hear her say that she may be able to implement this quickly in a very practical way. There is no doubt that my colleague, Mr Van den Bosch, will be very grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-14.u21	Thank you. The Minister continues with the motion in part No. 63.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-14.u22	Yes. The motion in part No. 63 belongs to Mrs Özütok and Mrs Den Boer. I would also like to leave this motion to the House. The good intellecter may also recognize elements of the motion. I have said once before on a similar motion that I leave the judgment to the Chamber, but that I think it is a good idea that also fits in with the things I want to do about a common arrangement. Finally, Mr President, the motion on item No. 64 by Mrs Van der Graaf. It's about social service. The question is whether it could also be fulfilled in local or regional government. I told you during the AO that I find that an interesting thought. The cabinet, of course, develops social service. For young people who are interested in local politics, it would be interesting, for example, to fulfil their social service as citizens' council member. Mr Blokhuis, Secretary of State of the United States of America, does have the lead when it comes to completing social service, so I would like to leave him the room to see how this could be implemented. But the motion as such seems to be in line with that. I leave the judgment to the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-14.u23	Thank you, Minister. This brings us to the end of this VAO. I thank the Minister for her presence.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-03-15-tweedekamer-14.u24	The vote on the motions will be on Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments, and then we shall proceed with the 30-member debate on the rankings showing that the Netherlands has fallen to 32nd place.
