ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the amendment to the Heat Act. A very warm welcome to the Minister and, of course, a warm welcome to the fellow speakers in this area and to all the people in the public gallery. I've just inventoried how many minutes you all need. We're in a weird timeline, because about 6:00, 5:30, we have to stop this debate in connection with the planning of the rest of the evening. But let's see how far we get. I'm trying to hold you to two interruptions in two. Let's see how far that works.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u2	First of all, Mrs Beckerman of the SP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u3	On Monday 9 December 1968 Mrs Boesman made a balloon ride from Egmond. Yeah, you're laughing at it. The balloon was filled with the very last gas from the blast furnaces. The balloon ride was part of a big party in Egmond. That day it was celebrated that all Dutch municipalities, with the exception of Gorinchem and the Wadden, were connected to gas from Groningen. All the papers reported about it; I have one with me. It was huge in all the papers, because it was an incredible operation, approaching its completion. A great achievement, they said: in four and a half years the whole of the Netherlands was connected to gas from Groningen. 2.6 million connections had been realized, 5 million aircraft had been treated or renewed. It would have cost 600 to 700 million guilders, all on behalf of the government. They spent 350 guilders per household. In four and a half years we passed. The government gave away free devices and encouraged people to buy new devices, such as a resume, at a discount. The government had an interest in that, too. For less than 1 cent per cubic metre, the gas in Groningen came out of the ground. Users paid 15 to 30 cents per cubic meter. Not all households were therefore happy with it. Some municipalities that had just replaced their old gas grid made a lot of double costs. But the huge job of switching was done in four and a half years. Mr. Chairman. We can learn a lot from this: how not to do it, but also how to do it. Especially the pace and strength of the government back then were amazing. Then we went over in four and a half years and now we're going off in very, very, very small steps. At that time the costs were largely for the government, now we make it largely an individual problem. Which brings me to the current law. Like the FAT Act, which we dealt with two weeks ago, this is another kind of interim law. This isn't the dreamy future. It's not where we want to go, it's a small step in between. I've been struggling a little bit with this input. Can we go through every detail of the law and turn this into the dreamed law? I think you're giving the answer: no. It remains a small intermediate step, while much more is needed. Mr. Chairman. That is why I come up with a number of important points. For us, they're like this. First of all, affordability. We want to get rid of the Groningen gas as quickly as possible, or actually get rid of the gas completely, but the way we do it now is not affordable for a lot of people. Recently, a report was published showing that the transition from gas to sustainable is not financially feasible for the vast majority of people. Even people who earn two modes could need government support. How do we ensure that the energy transition we all want, oh, wait, sorry, bíjna all want, and if necessary, because of the enormous disaster that has been caused in Groningen, there will also be and that it will not lead to any further division? Will this problem be recognised in good time and in good time? How is it ensured that households that heat sustainably do not lose more than in a home linked to fossil? The "no more than usual" principle, which is contained in the law we are discussing today, would accept this. Meanwhile, consumers complain that they are being presented with such high bills and the RTG showed that suppliers complain that they can't get out. How does the Minister see the solution? Can he explain how flexible tariffs will actually lead to lower costs? Isn't the opposite possible? How can people best be protected at too high rates? Construction will be expensive in the near future. Does the Minister see other possibilities to accommodate people who are struggling with the costs? A second focus is the lock-in, as it is called. How will the Minister prevent the heat being delivered from coming from fossil sources? If that does not happen, we are not creating a sustainable transition, but problems of tomorrow. Take the link to the Amercentrale. In large parts of a number of cities in Brabant we have a heat grid but it is linked to a coal power plant. So that's where we're stuck with coal. That's not the point. Why is this law not designed to prevent lock-in at all times and how can we make heat networks sustainable as quickly as possible? In view of the time I have already gone to my last point; I see an encouraging nodding from the President, which helps. My final point is about socializing or publicizing heat grids. Is it not time to recognise that this is also a result of something essential such as leaving heat to the market, when it comes to high costs? Private companies need profit. Surely that cannot be the starting point for affordable and clean energy for everyone? Local and regional SP plans for renewable energy are now in public hands. Now this Minister may not be immediately enthusiastic about this, but does he want to acknowledge that making public has very great advantages in achieving affordable and clean energy for all? To what extent could a greater role of public network companies ensure that we can speed up and manage the costs for households? In short, to allow everyone to live in a sustainable home in 2050, huge steps are needed. Even then, affordable social rentals are needed and even then, shops are needed that are also available for middle incomes. Before that time, existing homes need to come into financial trouble without the owners. What is needed, above all, are clear heat plans, good insulation subsidies and, most importantly, a clear phasing-out plan to get rid of the Groningen gas as quickly as possible. Mr President, I shall leave it at that. Six minutes!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u4	Very good. Thank you. I call Mrs Yeşilgöz of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. Last week I visited Apeldoorn where I spoke with entrepreneurs, farmers, officials and others about the energy transition and the opportunities offered by the current challenges in our country. Figures, tables and concrete ideas on the extent to which we can roll out the possibilities for clean energy in the Netherlands, followed each other quickly during that afternoon. No matter how exciting and great fun that was, we had to find out at the end of the afternoon with all the experts who were there, that if we did the same exercise again in a year, the conversation could be quite different. Because there's so much going on right now that we actually know one thing for sure: today's reality will look really different in a year's time, let alone in a few years' time. The developments follow each other at a rapid pace and it bubbles with innovation and ambition. The fact that sustainable large-scale heat facilities will also play a significant role in this future is, I think, clear to all of us. However, we cannot now record exactly what this is going to look like and what it will need. For this reason, the VVD considers the current revision to be a necessary intermediate step but certainly not the end point. An intermediate step but therefore no less important. More than half of all the energy we consume in the Netherlands is for our heat supply. At present, natural gas almost fully meets the demand for heat. There is no doubt that this should be brought down responsibly as soon as possible. This means that where gas is dominant everywhere now, the heat supply in the Netherlands will become much more diverse. Think of collective heat supply, electrical heat supplies, renewable gas or a combination of them. This will vary by region and region. The fact that no blueprint can now be made for the whole country, as we did with gas decades ago, makes this issue even more complex on the one hand, but on the other hand exciting and challenging. That gives the technical story of the review of the Heat Act a different, exciting dimension at one stroke. Today we are talking about consumer protection, space for competition and innovation and acceleration of the energy transition. The Dutch who are now tied to a collective heat supply are attached to one supplier. I own district heating. Me and my neighbors can't choose the cheapest supplier, or the supplier with the best customer service or the most favourable connecting conditions. We only have one option. In order to protect consumers from the monopolist, the Heat Act was created in 2014. The law states, among other things, that urban heat should never be more expensive than gas heating, but unfortunately, it is true that people with district heating sometimes pay more, and at the same time suppliers indicate that they get too little efficiency for these heat networks. In the meantime, we see reluctance in terms of innovation and large investments for large heat grids. We also see that the Heat Act does not function optimally when we look at the appreciation of consumers. Research by the Amsterdam School of Real Estate shows that half of the nearly 500 heat consumers questioned do not recommend a collective heat supply to acquaintances. Almost 60% want to cancel the connection to the common heat system even if that is possible. People say they pay too much for their heat supply. They have no insight into the costs and actually want to switch to another system. Now this review addresses some of these bottlenecks of the current law. The costs are made easier to understand, tariffs are regulated differently and there is room for experimentation. However, the lack of freedom of choice for consumers is not yet addressed, and competition between providers is not yet allowed. It would be really nice if the consumer, as in the case of gas and electricity, were not bound to one supplier, but I understand that infrastructure still allows this to be moderate. Mr. Chairman. However, I would like a response from the Minister to this part. How can we arrange as soon as possible for consumers to choose their own district heating provider? The VVD would like the heat grids to be open to several suppliers. Does the Minister agree with the VVD that this will lead to more competition on price, but also on sustainability, for example, and that we really need to accelerate this process? To what extent is the installation of gas and electricity supply an example for the heat grids? The VVD is in favour of a similar division and organisation of the market. When can this market also be opened up? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to dwell on the costs. The cost of heat is now higher than gas. It is not good to explain that we are socializing the cost of gas and not the cost of heat. Wouldn't it be better to give gas and heat the same funding system, in the sense that gas and heat costs are added up and distributed across all connections, as we are already doing with electricity and gas? Mr President, I would like to finish for a moment, because I can imagine that not everyone here would have expected me to plead on behalf of the VVD for socialisation of costs, especially of these costs, but I cannot explain the current organization which causes people who have no choice to pay regularly. I would like a response from the Minister on how we can better organise this, perhaps at this time or in the future if there is a follow-up to the heat bill; the real Heat Act, I will say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr Van der Lee has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u7	It's always very nice to hear that the VVD wants to socialize things. I'm very happy about that. But my question is actually about the piece before that. In itself, I can imagine that open heat networks are very attractive, because they allow competition and mean a low price for consumers. The problem is that a lot of these heat grids are quite small. Connecting them all together would be very unwise from an energetic point of view, because you will then move a lot of hot water and then just lose energy. Do you have an image of how big a net should be? How many customers do you need to create an open network?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u8	I thank Mr Van der Lee for this question. As I said in my speech, the infrastructure does not allow you to set it up in this way at the moment, or in fact, to open up that market. If that were an option, I would have made another argument here. But GroenLinks sees that the VVD is also eagerly waiting for that energy transition and that we are expanding it, in this case with this kind of heat grid, to ensure that more people can use it. This will also open up the market. If you ask me how big it must be and if I can present it to you delimited, I will say no. I do not believe that we should determine that here either. It is about when the market is ready and how we can arrange it so that everyone can use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u9	I didn't ask for an exact answer either. I was more concerned with the image you have there. Let me ask you something more specific. Is it conceivable for the VVD that in future there will be small-scale heat networks that are not open and large-scale ones that are open? Or does the VVD think there should be one uniform regulation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u10	I do not think we are going to go to a situation where a blueprint is possible at all when it comes to heat grids for the whole of the Netherlands. In my speech I also said that I think it is going to vary by region or region. I'd rather we look at that creatively and open up the market where possible. If that doesn't work out, I want us to work things out in a good way. So I don't see such a blueprint, not even in the near future. Maybe later, when it is very extensive in the Netherlands. But I think we're on the same page. Nor do I see it becoming much more than 20% to 30%.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u11	Mr Kops has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u12	I heard the VVD talking about socializing costs. You can spread the costs nicely, but the costs will of course still remain high. I heard that Mrs Yeşilgöz was also talking about the high energy bill. Indeed, it is far too high for many households. But there's one thing I don't understand. On 12 February 2017, so last year, there was an election debate of BNR Duurzaam. Then the VVD said: the VVD is for renewable energy but affordable. Apparently, that's not gonna work. Where's it gone wrong lately? Or was that just an election talk?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u13	The VVD is still for renewable energy. The VVD wants us to reach the Paris climate targets and get that hugely ambitious energy transition moving together. In doing so, we must also monitor very closely how much of these costs go to households. Since I have been a spokesperson, you have been hearing me say here all along: Minister, keep an eye on this; come back in reports and in annual reports what it means to households, so that we can monitor it with each other. That is also what all previous spokesmen of the VVD have said. So there is a clear consistent line.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u14	The fact is that the costs end up with the housekeepers. That is precisely because of the energy transition that the VVD is also in favour of. Then Mrs Yeşilgöz writes on Twitter: "Why should we have a property owner pay for a facility that we want to get rid of?" It makes it appear as if the alternatives to that gas connection would be cheaper, but the opposite is true. What does Mrs Yeşilgöz mean by such a tweet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u15	That tweet is about the decision that I believe the Chamber made two weeks ago that we are no longer standard connecting new construction to gas. A lot of people in the Netherlands are asking us the same thing. Every day I get emails from Dutch people saying: I want to get rid of the gas, but that costs me a lot of money at the moment. We'd like to meet these people. We have previously tabled and held a motion to the Chamber on, for example, the sealing of gas connections in order to close your gas connection at very low cost. The Minister has also promised to see what he can do in the talks he has, including on the climate agreement, to ensure that those costs for households are kept as low as possible. Of course, we're not doing a hobby project here. The energy transition is very good both in the short term and in the long term for our country and for all those Dutch people, all those households who e-mail us every day and say: I am also worried about climate change, I also want to go to clean energy; help me with that, I don't want to spend so much money on it. That's what we're trying to do here. My final point about this is that I will finish my story and I will finish it at the moment that we invest together in clean energy, which is becoming cheaper and that one-on-one can be seen in the energy bill. So the story is a lot more complex, but also a lot more nuanced than what is put down by the PVV. Mr. Chairman. The review we are discussing today, in addition to improving consumer protection and ensuring security of supply, obviously has another objective, which we have just discussed, namely preparing for the energy transition. I would like to hear from the Minister how he sees this in concrete terms. For example, what possibilities does the experimental space offer in this context? When does he expect to present the final heat bill here? What is the ideal way to implement this law when it comes to consumer protection and freedom of choice and space for innovation and sustainability of heat supply? Mr. Chairman. We have formulated high ambitions here, when it comes to CO reduction. In order to ensure that people can switch to collective heat supplies and go off the gas, not only will there be more networks, but collective heat supplies must be as easy, reliable and affordable as gas. With this bill we are taking a step in the right direction, but it is currently as good as it gets. I hope that next year, when the new law is in place, we will be able to take the real steps somewhere next year. Today's reality will therefore look different. I look forward to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u16	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It doesn't happen often, but from left to right, from government to parliament, from opposition to coalition, almost everyone wants to get rid of the gas. One wants it especially in the interests of the Groningen people, the other wants it in the interests of the climate. There are reasons left. Relevant questions to ask now are: do we do the right thing, do we do enough and go fast enough? Those are also the questions I asked myself during the study of the amended Heat Act. The Heat Act is an important tool in the transition to sustainable heat. Our gas use can only go down if there is sufficient sustainable heat available. The Heat Act has the potential to structurally stimulate sustainable heat. Unfortunately, I come to the conclusion that the proposed changes to the law are insufficient to facilitate a market for sustainable heat supply. I will explain this, but first I would like to stress once again the importance of energy saving. The more energy we can save, the easier it becomes to generate the energy we do use sustainably. If we do not make a firm commitment to this saving, there is a good chance that we will remain partly dependent on dirty energy. That said back to the heat. Our homes are often low-cost and standard designed for natural gas. We really need a system switch, a long-term goal with which we work towards homes that are suitable to be heated with sustainable heat sources such as soil heat or heat from the outdoors. Above all, we should not take measures, stacking up measures that try to improve the existing system on a number of points, because that actually creates problems for the future. I am thinking in particular of linking coal plants, waste plants and fossil industries to a heat grid. It sounds very nice: residual heat generated by the burning of coal and waste gets a repurpose, a new destination. But at the same time it makes homes dependent on those industries and those coal plants. There is a risk that closure of these coal and waste incineration plants will become more difficult if connected houses have no other way of getting their heat. That's the lock-in system Mrs Beckerman was talking about. That's how we keep the fossil industry alive artificially. That is an undesirable situation and yet that is often what happens in the case of district heating. Large numbers of households are connected to heat grids, which are fed from coal plants or waste incineration plants for their residual heat. Extra undesirable is that for connected households it is not possible to switch to a green heat supplier. You don't have any control over district heating as a resident. Mr. Chairman. So we need to move towards a system in which households have freedom of choice in heat supply. Tens of thousands of households are expected to be connected to heat grids in the coming years, such as district heating, because we want to be natural gas free by 2050. Does a household even want to be connected to a heat grid? I have a few questions for the Minister. Can a household bypass a heat grid and opt for other heat sources, such as heat pumps or solar boilers? Are these choices also possible with the revised Heat Act? Mr. Chairman. Also for heat networks, there is no freedom of choice until there is something to choose, so if there are several suppliers on a heat grid. My party is in favour of opening heat grids to multiple providers. I know that heat grids are still small at the moment and that the number of suppliers is low, but we really need to make fundamental choices for a sustainable future and not muddle with minimal adjustments. We need to pre-sort for a future that is really different from the current situation. Mr. Chairman. Transparency is another condition for freedom of choice. The revised... I see Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u18	Yes, Mr Jetten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u19	I waited until Mr Wassenberg's block was finished. I agree with the Animal Party that we should prevent a lock-in and that we should make heat grids as sustainable as possible, but I do have a question about that. Does Mr Wassenberg agree with me that a house on a heat grid connected to a coal power plant is already better than a house on a gas fired central heating boiler? If so, does the Animal Party agree with D66 that we should start with the roll-out of more heat grids and that sustainability should then follow? Or is the Party for Animals against any form of heat grids still connected to fossil resources?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u20	We are opposed to heat grids which are indeed connected to those coal plants, because that is probably going to set the scene, even for the distant future. Indeed, it seems very attractive now, because then you can say that the households that then no longer have a central heating system also emit less CO. But if that means you might be recording things for the next 15 years, maybe you're even further away from home. So at the moment when we're going to make other suppliers available on those heat grids, I wouldn't be choosing those coal plants right now. We just said that the future is very variable, it can go either way. The moment you don't exclude that lock-in right now, you're already capturing the future for an important part. I think we should avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u21	Mr Wassenberg and I both believe that these coal plants in the Netherlands should be closed as soon as possible. Of course, there are other fossil sources that you could connect to a heat grid, for example a waste plant, which might last a little longer. Would we be able to find each other if we asked the Minister to speed up the deployment of these heat grids, not to exclude the connection of fossil heat sources but to agree with the industry on annual sustainability of these heat networks, with an end date to which those fossil sources may be connected?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u22	At least let's try to roll out those heat grids. In any case, let us try to ensure that there can also be different providers of heat. When you're 100% sure you'll be out of that coal-fired heat in one or two years, you could talk about it. But you need to get rid of that coal-fired heat as soon as possible. We would rather not allow it at all, but if you were to allow it, you should be able to put an end to it as soon as possible. I'm not talking about many years, I'm talking about one or two years at most. I was just getting started on transparency. This transparency is also an important condition for freedom of choice. The revised Heat Act does include a reporting obligation on sustainability in the management report, but harsh sustainability criteria remain out. And for the individual consumer, it is really not doing anything to make a choice for sustainability on the basis of administrative reports. So we really need criteria for that. What is the Minister's position on the development of what I call a 'heat label', i.e. a certification of heat according to sustainability criteria? A certification of heat, i.e. establishing criteria for sustainable heat, makes it clear from which source heat comes from the heat grid and increases transparency. This gives households the choice that they themselves have when choosing the electricity supplier. As you can choose to leave electricity from coal power stations and choose sun or wind energy, so you should be able to do so with heat grids. Then you can phase out those coal plants a little easier and faster. Heat grids are now traditionally local monopolies where one heat company takes care of everything, from production to distribution and supply. Households are therefore too dependent on one company without any competition. And reasons for sustainability are therefore much less than if different providers compete for sustainability. The latter is now also the case with green energy. If we dare to choose to open heat networks to third parties, such as electricity, then customers can choose their supplier, whereby they can be selected for sustainability. It's called TPA or "third-party access." Sorry about my ugly English term. In the case of electricity, this system works fine and therefore households can opt for green electricity or less green electricity. This should also be possible in the case of heat networks, especially if they become more important in the heat supply sector. And if we open these heat grids to third parties, it can accelerate their sustainability considerably, at least if we combine that opening with the drawing up of those sustainability criteria that I was talking about. This makes it possible to give sustainable heat priority over non-durable heat. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr President, I end up where I started. The Animal Party, together with the Minister and most of the Chamber, wants to get rid of natural gas quickly. But that also means, in my view, that we must stop using natural gas as a reference for the pricing of heat, the NMDA principle. If natural gas is phased out, we have actually already started to do so, at least by talking about it, it is wrong to use that gas price for a maximum price for heat. Gas prices will rise but the price of sustainable heat should not increase. That link must therefore be released. Instead, you could opt for a heat price that is partly determined by the climate effect. In other words, the dirtier the heat, the more expensive it is. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Does he intend to replace this no-more-than-different system in the price fixing of heat with a system that is determined by the "polluter pays" principle? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. This concludes me, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u23	Thank you. I call Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are faced with the question of how we will legally anchor people who are now connected to heat grids, to be sure of reliable and affordable heat supply in the future. Now only 5% of households are connected to heat grids. That percentage will have to grow significantly. We really need to get rid of that natural gas, as several parties have advocated here. But this can only be done if a connection to the heat grid is more attractive than other forms of heating. It is good to know that this law removes a number of bottlenecks. That's a good intermediate step. The PvdA can support that. But good isn't good enough yet. The heat grid should not be equivalent to what natural gas is now a reference; it will have to be a better alternative to moving people, abandoning the natural gas as a source of heat. This means, in the view of the Labour Party, that the principle should be replaced by the always-less-than-other principle. Otherwise, there is no incentive for people to switch from natural gas to heat grids. My question to the Minister is whether he shares that view. Will he also undertake that this will be a guiding principle in the design of a broader heat law in the legislation, as indicated in the explanatory memorandum? Mrs Yesilgöz cut an interesting dilemma. The answer from her was: well, maybe we should consider socializing. But it really is a great dilemma that is being exposed. Because the question is whether in the future we would like people to be connected to a heat grid from a national point of view, but the individual interest is at odds with that, because there may be better alternatives. What if there is a situation where electricity becomes so cheap? Some say that electricity may be infinitely available in the future, that you are connected to a heat grid from a national interest. Then how are you going to prevent people from choosing that cheaper alternative? From an individual interest, you look at the cheapest alternative. If you look at the national CO target, it may well be that as a government you say: yes, but I still think it is important for a large part of the population to be connected to heat grids. But how are we gonna deal with that? There will really have to be a form of settlement system. If you have to answer that directly with socializing, I want to leave it here in the middle. But it is a question that should be answered. I hope the Minister will be able to answer that question. I would like to underline this with an example. We have encouraged farmers in the agricultural sector to go into manure fermentation. Well, that was financially very attractive. At some point the cost of the raw materials became so high and the electricity generated so low that all those manure digesters, or a large part of them, were flooded. Then you can say that this is an entrepreneurial risk and bad luck, but it is difficult to say that to citizens if they are encouraged to join heat grids, after which it turns out that they have opted for a very expensive modality over time. That type of sub-optimization is really going to have to be avoided. A number of organisations responded to the Heat Act. Among others, Aedes sent a letter to the MPs. The dome states that it is not attractive for corporations to invest more in sustainable collective heating installations. Yes, Mr. Chairman, we shouldn't have that. Aedes mentions two bottlenecks. I do not want to go into too much detail, but I would like to ask the Minister whether she is prepared to take into account the interests of tenants with Aedes, but also with the Housing Association, in order to achieve a balanced solution that is in line with both Aedes' concerns and the Woonbond's concerns? Because the House Union has also approached us in writing. The Woonbond is particularly concerned about the protection of tenants from unreasonable heat costs. A signal has also been sent from the Energy Netherlands side. They refer to Article 1 (k) and Article 6 of the Heat Act. Concern is expressed about the scope of that article, ensuring that building owners who are also consumers oppose the charging of the project contribution. If that concern is justified, I ask the Minister. Can you see if that care can be taken away? I believe that the Minister should pay attention to these signals from civil society organisations. Finally, Mr President. There's a rush. Every gas fired central heating boiler now being replaced by a new central heating boiler carries the risk of people opting for natural gas for a period of 15 years, as long as the depreciation period of a central heating boiler is. How is the Minister going to speed up the use of heat grids and thus give shape and direction to the farewell of natural gas, a fervent desire of the vast majority of this Chamber? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u25	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. I call Mr Jetten of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Everyone knows the view of a waste burner, a coal plant or a large factory, sometimes with such a steam whistle that goes into the air. As a child, I have always wondered: why do we let that just blow up into the air, which is a terrible sin and bad for the environment? I'm sure I wasn't the only one who thought that when you were a kid in the back seat, you'd pass a coal plant or a steam whistle like that. Fortunately, in many places these days, we catch that kind of residual stream. We collect that residual heat and we do something useful with it. We put it in a tube and make sure that we can reuse it in greenhouse horticulture or for heating our homes. Smart reuse. We want to stimulate this concept of heat grids in the coming years. We face a huge challenge to use less CO in the built environment. In addition to green and blue gases and electrification of our houses, a heat grid is one of the alternatives to our current source of heating, Groningen gas. But we're still looking to set all that up properly. D66 believes that we have a fair and level playing field for consumers and businesses, and a clear role for public companies and network operators. D66 wants consumers to be better protected from monopolies and to have as much freedom of choice as possible in reducing heat. These heat and heat networks can and should eventually be greener, because if the coal plants and waste burners close down in the coming years, the networks must have a different heat source. This heat bill isn't gonna take care of that big change. That's why it's waiting for the Heat Act 2.0. In the meantime, however, we must seize every opportunity to improve the rules of the game and speed up the roll-out of heat grids. That is why there are three important points with regard to D66. First of all, space is needed to experiment. D66 welcomes the experimental space that is now being proposed. It offers opportunities for innovation and helps businesses, governments and consumers to actually get involved in heat grids. We see the experimental space works here in South Holland. Our own D66-deputed Han Weber is as we speak in the process of creating a heat roundabout, a roundabout with which we can connect heat to users on a large scale. I hope that experimental space will provide a lot of useful input for the further roll-out of heat grids and this Heat Act 2.0. Secondly, as far as D66 is concerned, heat grids must be opened as much as possible. Other speakers have already mentioned this. Consumers and companies connected to a heat grid now depend on one party that builds and manages the heat grid. This limits the freedom of choice and there are few incentives for the company where your customer is. With more open networks, where you as a consumer have a choice, the price can hopefully also be reduced. A greater role for system operators is then important, for the construction of heat grids and especially for the transmission networks of these heat grids. By making the construction of heat grids a public task, we are also going to share costs with more people. We've been doing that for decades with electricity and gas, but not yet with heat. As a result, many business cases for heat grids are now broken. After all, the first neighborhood or district that passes into a heat grid pays for the complete infrastructure, even if other parts of a city or village or business area later join that heat grid. This heat law does not yet take concrete steps towards more open networks and socialised infrastructure. D66, like a number of other groups, wants to move in that direction. I ask the Minister if he agrees with us that we should go that way. Is he also willing to take better care of that in the next Heat Act? I am considering a second-term motion with my colleague in the VVD. Mr. Chairman. The third point that is important for D66, and that is actually the most important point... I see that Mr Wassenberg is moving towards the interrupting microphone, so I am waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u27	Yes, before you continue, Mr Wassenberg has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u28	Mr Jetten said that D66 wants the heat grids to be opened up. This could lead to competition and lower prices for consumers. I also said that I want these nets to be opened, but also that I want sustainability criteria to be established so that consumers can also choose sustainability. Now that is not the case. Does Mr Jetten agree with me that sustainability should also be possible? If so, and I can already see him nodding: does Mr Jetten agree with me that the consumer should be able to make a choice about sustainability and that a heat label, or heat criterion, or call it what you like, is also very important?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u29	Almost the next page of my speech deals with these points, so if you will allow me, I will go further and then I think I will answer both of Mr Wassenberg's questions. I have just said in interruption to Mr Wassenberg that a heat grid is relatively sustainable. A heat grid on a coal power plant is already better in terms of CO emissions per household than a household on a gas-fired central heating boiler. Well, that's nice, of course. That is why I think: every house that we can already connect to a heat grid, even though that heat grid is connected to a fossil source, is already a step in the right direction, because we can remove these houses from the Groningen gas. At the same time, however, we must ensure that heat networks become much and much more sustainable in the coming years, not only because we want to eradicate these fossil sources, such as coal plants, but also because there are simply green alternatives available. I am also pleased to see that a lot of heat networks in the Netherlands have not only great ambitions in this area, but are also working on it. For example, in Nijmegen, where there is a large heat grid connected to a waste burner, there is now a search for geothermal heat, or geothermal energy, as a potential substitute for that waste plant. D66 wants it not only to stay on fine intentions and initiatives of those existing heat grids, but also to enforce that sustainability. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mr Wassenberg's points. It starts with transparency about the source of this heat, which Mr Wassenberg also mentioned. I myself am charmed by what the Amsterdam Metropolitan Region has done. They have created a heat ladder, a kind of energy label like we do with houses, which you can apply to heat grids. Then you can see very nicely how you can make such a heat grid sustainable by different sources until finally that ideal image of energy label A. My question to the Minister would therefore be: should we not develop such a similar heat ladder, or further develop that of the Amsterdam Metropolitan Region, and simply make it mandatory at national level, so that every heat grid can report on it and the consumer knows whether its heat source is very sustainable, or not? With an open net, you can also make that part of your choice. I would also like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to set up not only such a heat ladder under the next Heat Act, but also to agree with the heat companies on how they are going to rise on that heat ladder every so many years, so that you build in incentives to make those heat networks ever more sustainable. I believe that I have also answered Mr Wassenberg's questions. He's not going anywhere, so I think that's the case. Mr. Chairman. So I had three important points for the next Heat Act, but I would also like to finish a number of other issues on which I also have some questions for the Minister. First of all about large consumers. Despite the fact that both Ecorys and the Council of State have advised to include large consumers under the Heat Act, the Minister has decided not to do so. "In consultation with relevant stakeholders," the Minister drew this conclusion. After all, large consumers have sufficient alternatives, which they can also realize themselves. As an example, it is often mentioned: building its own heating system. I understand very well that large consumers want this space, but I do have a few questions for the Minister. How are we going to ensure that large consumers actually take that space? How will the Minister move them to make them more sustainable if they do not choose to be connected to a heat grid? Mr. Chairman. My other question is about the ACM and the underlying regulation. Mrs Yesilgöz already referred to the technical briefing we had on this subject, in which the ACM said that there is a huge interest in lower regulation. It's still coming after we've passed this heat bill. The ACM also said in that technical briefing that we really need to take the time to further develop that regulation. We need to regulate the market organisation, the cost-sharing and the financing of infrastructure. Then I think: yes, did we get it right? So a number of questions to the Minister. How does this relate to each other, that we are dealing here with a Heat Act, where the majority of the legislation still needs to be dealt with in lower legislation? When does the Minister intend to actually complete this lower regulation? Are there any discussions with the ACM on the further organisation of the market, the distribution of costs and the points mentioned by the ACM in the technical briefing? It will be tricky, tricky, when it comes to how this Heat Act will really protect consumers better. The Minister writes that it is expected that the price regulation that the ACM has yet to draw up will ensure this. At the same time, there are many variables that play a role. Therefore, it seems difficult to me to guarantee at the front that the lower regulation and the use of the ACM will really lead to better consumer protection. How's the minister looking at this? How is the consumer better protected in this lower regulation? What has gone wrong in the past in protecting consumers that we must now prevent? One example specifically concerned with consumer protection is the closure penalty. This Chamber recently declared itself Chamber-wide in the treatment of the Act that the closure penalty for gas is actually crazy and that we must get rid of it. The Minister has promised to settle this in the Energy Act 1.0, to agree on this in the climate agreement and to opt for an integrated neighbourhood approach. I totally agree with him. In this integrated neighbourhood approach, we need to see how we can keep the gas closure penalty as low as possible. But natural heat is the same thing. There is now also a closing fine for heat. Households in an area with a heat grid that use very different forms, Mr Wasserberg mentioned a few: heat-cold storage, a fully electrified house............................................................................................................................................................................................................. Does the Minister agree with D66 that the closure penalty for the heat grid, as with the gas grid, is in fact no longer at this time and that, in the long term, we should, preferably as soon as possible, delete it? How will the Minister ensure, together with the ACM, that the costs are as low as possible, if he retains a fixed tariff for the closure of the heat grid for the time being? Mr. Chairman. I come to a conclusion, and then I think I have kept my speech exactly within ten minutes: one earners versus more earners. If I interpret it correctly, we will be awarded a prize in which no distinction is made in the composition of the household. Are they not going to be penalised if prices are determined on the basis of such an average household? Is an average household at all the right indicator to set that price? If we compare waste taxation at local level, where we often have tariffs for single-person households, how difficult is it to apply this system in the Heat Act? That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u30	Mr Moorlag has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u31	I should like to comment briefly on what Mr Jetten has to say about abolishing the final penalty. Everyone is, of course, in favour of abolishing fines. But those costs are gonna land somewhere. Suppose a lot of customers from the heat grid say: I'm tired of it, I know a better modality. I'm going to press the horn. I'm going to wave nicely to my supplier, and I'm leaving as a customer. Of course, the investor in that heat grid has made investments that have to be recouped in 30, 40 years. Who's gonna bear that cost? Is that just entrepreneurial risk, or is someone else setting the bar for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u32	In my opinion, we have all said the following about these closing fines during the treatment of the FAT Act. It is complicated to bring it all the way back to zero, because of course an action is being taken to close such a house. But these closing fines are now often on average €600 for gas, and I understand that the heat grids are really well above €1,000. I don't think that's a cost-covering price for closing. That price just has to go down. Then there is the question of where these costs should land. That is why I also argued that we should eventually go to open networks, socialising the cost of that infrastructure so that we simply share it neatly with all of us. We have recently talked extensively with the Minister about how we are going to make a good heat strategy per neighborhood and how we are going to look at which houses can be removed from the gas per neighborhood. The question of whether a heat grid is the alternative or electrification should simply be taken into account in this district strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u33	Do I understand correctly that Mr Jetten says that the final penalty will disappear for the individual, but it will come back to all 17 million individuals in this country because we are socializing the costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u34	That closing fine just has to go to a decent rate so that you also pay for the actual act of shutting that down. This rate can be much lower than the current €600 for gas or the thousands of euros for heat. If we start socializing, we'll all pay for that infrastructure. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u35	I heard Mr Jetten say that if you compare the heat supply of a household based on a gas fired central heating boiler with the residual heat supply of a coal power plant, the CO imprint is more favourable in the case of residual heat from the coal power plant. I am sure that Mr Jetten is technically quite right, but we are also competing in the closure of these coal power stations. How is Mr Jetten going to prevent a fossil lock-in and keep the coal plants longer in the running if we connect them to residual heat projects?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u36	The coal plants in the Netherlands must be shut down as soon as possible. Fortunately, there will be a legal ban on the use of coal. I say in almost every debate in which I have the chance that, as far as I am concerned, there will be an agreement for the closure of the Hemweg power station in Amsterdam this year. So we are in complete agreement on that. What I would just like to warn you about in this debate, also in connection with the interruption debate with Mr Wassenberg, is that we are not going to stop rolling out heat grids because not all heat sources are 100% green. I believe that we should encourage the roll-out of these heat grids and at the same time ensure the greening of these heat grids. Hence my plea for a heat label and hence my plea for hard agreements with all heat networks to take a step in this sustainability every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u37	Indeed, we do not have the ideal world yet. We need to move towards sustainability. The Christian Union also wants to make it clear with a label, so that it is also clear to users. Still, we want to shut down those coal plants. If we connect those coal power stations to heat grids, that simply means an improvement in their business case. Isn't that something D66 doesn't want?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u38	Perhaps we should not stick to that example for too long, because as far as I am concerned, it is mainly about other fossil sources such as a waste plant. The business cases of these coal-fired power stations must be reduced as quickly as possible by means of a higher price and a ban on coal. Then hopefully we'll be out of all the coal plants in this country in the next ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u39	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is only recently that this Chamber took an important step in the heat transition by removing the obligation to connect to the gas. During the treatment of the FAT Act, I said that from now on, the no-unless principle should apply to gas connections. We should not allow gas connection to be chosen purely for reasons of cost. Social costs and benefits must also be taken into account. The people of Groningen must be able to live and live safely and we are dealing with the urgent climate issue. At the same time, we see that as much as 80% of the total energy demand from the built environment is needed for home heating. So we really need to put all the sails in place. How are we going to heat our homes now and in the future if we no longer use natural gas in Groningen? Mr. Chairman. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, according to the Trias Energetica, we are going to fill out the heat transition. This means saving first, then generating sustainably at the source and finally dealing efficiently with the other sources, the fossil energy. How does the Minister intend to implement step one of the trias energetics, saving energy? How can heat supply become an integral part of the solutions in the built environment? We need to combine heat supply with sustainability, including insulation. There are many new concepts. Someone told me about insulating ankle glass available for monuments. We've got it circularly built. We have also talked many times about zero-on-the-meter. These new concepts are needed to come up with future-proof solutions. We can provide sustainable heat to an old flat, but if it is a drafty building, we still miss the point. Mr. Chairman. There's no other way. If we isolate properly, low temperature heat supply can be used. This saves a lot of CO emissions and heavy heat losses during transport. Is the Minister prepared, together with, among other things, heat companies and the construction sector, to implement a combination of energy saving and sustainable heat so that we do not skip step one out of the trias energetics? Mr. Chairman. The place of residual heat in the trias energica is a tricky one. Some place residual heat in the second step, but a waste plant or refinery is very difficult to call a sustainable source. At the same time, it is important to use residual heat and not to discharge it, as long as that residual heat is available. In Zuid-Holland, for example, sufficient residual heat is available to heat the entire province. Mr. Chairman. In fact, we should only allow residual heat if it does not require additional fossil or nuclear energy, so that it really is residual electricity. Does the Minister agree with me? And if so, how is this regulated in the law? My motion for a resolution was adopted earlier in order not to link coal-fired power stations to heat grids, especially now that coal-fired power stations will close in the foreseeable future. We need to prevent a fossil lock from developing. That is what I have just exchanged in the interrupting debate with Mr Jetten. Is the Minister prepared to exclude coal from heat grids, also in accordance with the motion for a resolution? In the coalition agreement, it was agreed to stop the subsidy on biomass in coal power stations. I also have doubts about large-scale imports of biomass for heating buildings. We know the regional heat from biomass, where residual streams are the raw material, but I really do think that's different from shipping wood pallets from Canada here to burn for large-scale heat supply. How does the Minister feel about this? Shouldn't we just stop doing this for once? Mr. Chairman. The adopted amendment by Mr Jetten c.s. My group, too, was involved in this process, which gives municipalities an important role in the heat transition. The choice for the best and most sustainable heat supply should be made by region. Does this law give the right incentive to choose the best alternatives from a sustainability point of view and from a cost perspective? The Christian Union is committed to the principle of priority for sustainable, with 100% clean generation taking precedence over residual heat from industry. Locally there are examples of a so-called heat ladder, where reduction of CO emissions is leading. For example, industrial residual heat in new buildings is often not the most sustainable solution. Is the Minister prepared to come up with a heat ladder together with the industry? And is he willing to agree with all the parties involved on the sustainability of the heat supply? Mr. Chairman. The management report requires heat suppliers to report on sustainability. Last week, the amendment tabled by me and Mr Jetten was adopted on a transparent electricity label. That's what we should have for heat, too. Is the Minister prepared to agree with the heat companies on a heat label or a CO label for consumers, in which it becomes clear what the source of the heat supplied is and how sustainable it is? Mr. Chairman. For consumers, the heat market is still not functioning sufficiently. There's a lot of complaints. Consumers see the heat prices as unclear and unreasonablely high. They also look at similar homes with a central heating boiler, and see that they have to pay more. The complaints include district heating and heat-cold storage in apartment complexes. In extreme cases, as in IJmuiden, even 60% more than usual had to be paid. The no-more-than-other principle is based on the averages. In practice, many users see that the maximum price set by the ACM is used as a standard. This maximum price is set in lower regulation. In addition, customers regularly run at high rates of fixed duty. This seems unfair, because it hardly affects customers' energy bills. I still have many questions about the position of the customer, but much will also depend on the implementation of the lower regulation. Is the Minister prepared to take these concerns into account? When will the implementation of this lower regulation become known? Mr. Chairman. Cold delivery is seen by many users as a loose product, but in WKO it is part of the total package. Suppliers need cold to balance the source. Nevertheless, WCO customers pay a lot more, even if they do not want to take off cold. Doesn't this create a disproportionate disadvantage for the customer? The ownership and rental of the delivery sets has been deposited with the heat suppliers by an earlier amendment. Customers are now complaining about the high costs, for example €180 rent per year, and about the lack of innovation and sustainability of these devices. I ask the Minister: shouldn't there be much more freedom of choice in this? There are also customers who want to quit. Others have also spoken about this. They are sometimes still at an unreasonable cost. Some suppliers charge €350. I just heard amounts above $1,000. This is considered unreasonable by the customers. It is clear that these are unreasonable amounts. Shouldn't this be regulated much more? Mr. Chairman. The one-off connection contribution also raises many questions for the project developers, the municipalities and the heat suppliers. How is it ensured that the connection fee is based on the actual costs incurred? Mr. Chairman. In the law there is room for new entrants, but it is a "negotiated access." This reduces access to the heat market. Why not opt for regulated access, with minimum requirements for entrants? It increases competition and freedom of choice, doesn't it? I am sure the Liberal Minister should address that. Mr. Chairman. In the bill, tenants are no longer protected by the Heat Act but by the rental right. According to the Minister, this protection is equivalent to the protection in the Heat Act. However, I still have questions about this. The tenants only fell under the Heat Act regime for a few years. Now it's being reversed. It is also questionable whether the rental right offers sufficient guarantees when it comes to reasonable costs for heat. For example, the rental right does not have a maximum rate. The Minister states in the written reply that the Rent Committee may consider the maximum rate of the Heat Act when assessing the reasonableness of the costs, but this is not a hard limit in the rental right. Isn't the protection of tenants going backwards now? And isn't there a need for an explicit basis in the rental right? Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna take a look at the future. In the long term, it is obvious to release the natural gas reference. Many have spoken about this for me. The condition is that the customer remains protected at unreasonable rates. In the long term, does the Minister want to get rid of the gas reference? There is also a real illogical effect of the "no more than usual" principle. We all see that gas prices will rise, including higher tax rates. Then the heat rates automatically go along. Does the Minister consider this to be an undesirable effect? In the future, should the heat grids not also be in the hands of network operators, with the costs being socialised? Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with a plea for something that I have often supported in the Chamber, for something that I believe the Minister would also like: building-related funding. It's not getting off the ground yet. Precisely building-related funding can help to make the heat transition affordable. We've got to start experimenting on that fast. That's what you could try out in the labs. Is the Minister prepared to speed this up? I spoke recently with a delegation from Drenthe. They told me that there are a lot of apartment complexes where owners' associations are active that ensure that building-related financing reduces the energy bill and increases the service costs, but with maximum residential comfort. They need guarantees. This can be done through Invest-NL, for example. I am very curious whether the Minister knows these examples and whether he wants to encourage such initiatives. The people in the country are ready and waiting for a government to stand by them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u41	Thank you, Mrs Dik-Faber. I call Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Despite the urgency and political awareness that we need to get rid of natural gas very quickly and despite the positive fact that the Chamber recently agreed to abolish the gas connection obligation, the harsh reality is that new houses are still being connected to natural gas. We only manage in hundreds to remove houses from the gas, but in the direction of 2050 we have to get rid of the gas at a rate of 250,000 houses per year. That's 20,000 houses a month. A huge task, which will be very labour-intensive, but also very capital-intensive. We cannot expect that to be financed only by the users and a number of companies. It can only be achieved by socialising public funding for this type of heat grid. Of course, we have to avoid having to deal with big lock-ins. Fortunately, with the exception of the Amercentrale, there are also no coal plants connected to heat grids. And I don't think anyone's gonna think about doing that now either. But we have a very big challenge ahead of us. It is also clear that there is a screaming need for space for experiments among all stakeholders. There are already 7,000 heat grids in the Netherlands, but most of them are very small. We have to go to much larger nets and a much wider range, but we don't really know how to set it up yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u43	I just heard Mr Van der Lee from GroenLinks say that we may need to socialise the cost of making that investment possible. But does he also see opportunities to use Invest-NL for this? Then you don't have to socialize costs, you can make investments, and you can let them come back revolutionary and re-deploy for society. Is that a passable road for the Green Left Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u44	Thanks for the question. Yes, of course. I myself have called for close links with all investors throughout the transition: financial institutions, pension funds, and Invest-NL can also play a role in this. But it is important that we develop projects of a certain scale, the business case of which is clear and the return is also visible in the long term. 'Cause if you don't, you're not gonna get those parties. That probably also means that you will need forms of guarantee. There is a public side to this, because it must somehow be incorporated into the state budget. And you are also at risk; that too is going to cost money. There will eventually also be a public account. Then the question is: do we get that from the general funds, from the taxes, or are we going to tell that to the consumers in their energy bills? Those are the choices we have to make in politics. But we have to realise very well, as the Minister said, that we have benefited for a very long time from very cheap energy because we have not passed on the social costs. Now there is a price and we have to pay it to the left or to the right; we have to pay it as a society as a whole. We're gonna talk a lot about the forms in which we're gonna do that. To do this, we must also have experiments to see what is working in practice. That is what this law is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u45	Does the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, like the Minister's letter last Thursday, see possibilities for geothermal energy? For this they also look at EBN, our state-owned company, in order to have them participate financially or not. We'll get a letter on that at the end of this quarter. Does Mr Van der Lee also see this as an opportunity, in addition to Invest-NL, to undertake this type of investment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u46	I'm sure where you want to avoid lock-ins, you need geothermal energy as a heat supplier for heat grids. Then we are not only talking about ultra-deep geothermals, but also about the much less deep, the shallow geothermals. It does indeed require forms of guarantee from the public authorities, since there are risks of drilling, but probably also forms of subsidy to trigger this. Because we have a huge challenge. We really need to get to work, but we need to do it with things that we've seen that can work.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u47	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u48	Yeah, I needed to see where I left off. There was already a discussion on the question of closed and open networks. Closed nets have a problem with support because a monopolist offers the heat. It can in principle abuse market power as a monopolist, and that again translates into too high a price for the heat user. In practice, we also see that, even where the ACM says it does not see the abuse of market power, the consumer still feels: I am stuck, I have only one producer and I cannot, like others, choose between energy suppliers. This means that, if the heat grids are really increasing in size, we need to see how we can make forms of competition possible in the long term. I have already asked a question about this in the debate on the interruption. I'd like to put that to the Minister, too. What's the critical mass for a heat grid so you can open it up? How many consumers do you need to have multiple parties active on such a network? I'm very curious if the Minister has a bit of an idea about that. Probably like me, he hopes that all the experiments we're going to do will shed light on that. But it would also be good if he would lift a first tip of the veil at this point. It has also been said by others, but it is crucial that we take steps in the heat file and with heat networks, both from the point of view of security for the people of the north and the viability for the present and future generations. GroenLinks is therefore going to vote for this law. But we also see very clearly that this is an interim act. Others have already said that. We're actually fixing a few things that we might have had to fix before, but we don't have an elaborate approach for the future yet. It is important to set up that future in an evidence-based way. We need experiments to find out how best to design the planning and financing of the infrastructure. We were just talking about that. How do we determine a truly fair consumer price? How do we fill in the decentralised management role of the municipalities? They have to determine at a fairly local level what the best heat options are. There is much to be said about the huge IQ of the Minister, I will not attach a number to it, but no one can determine from one position in the Netherlands what the best heat options are in this country. That has to be much more decentralised. We must allow parties to organise this with each other. We must offer alternatives so that the best options can be chosen locally. On one point, I would like to continue. That's the price regulation. Others have already spoken about the principle of no more than another. We had a hearing in the Chamber and there were also many written submissions. We have noticed that hardly anyone is satisfied with this rate. This has a reference to another source of energy and is not transparent. At the same time, there is still no idea of a better alternative. Do you have to choose another reference? Are you looking at the costs purely? How do you do that at this time when the energy market is moving so enormously? That is why I have tabled an amendment in which I propose that the principle should be regulated and retained, but not enshrined in the law, but in an AMvB. In the future, if we have more insight into all developments, we can move towards better pricing. Why do I choose an AMvB? I can see Mrs. Mulder. That also has to do with the fact that there is such a dynamic in that market. I do not rule out the fact that there will be only one adjustment when it comes to future pricing. This gives us more flexibility. We see from many parties working on this dossier that they are constantly running into old legislation. Their pace is hampered by so many legal blockades. That was the background to my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u49	Mrs Mulder has another question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u50	This is a bit in line with the dilemma that has just been outlined by Mr Jetten: what are you going to do in lower regulation and what are you talking about here? The core of the entire Heat Act was that people were dealing with monopolies. You could only say yes or yes and you didn't even have a maximum price. My objection to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks' amendment is that you are now going to remove that ceiling. If you do that, people will be completely at the mercy of what happens next. I have great objections to that, because I do not think that you should give higher prices to existing customers. We already see too much that the maximum price is also used as the basic price. How is Mr Van der Lee going to avoid that with his amendment? Can he take that care away from me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u51	I'll try. I do regret that you are now contributing to the unnecessary cause of unrest, because I do not want to remove the maximum. I only make the form in which it is recorded something else, namely not in a law, but in an AMvB. So nothing is changing pricing at the moment. It's just about later. If, in the future, based on these experiments, a market that is developing, and the developments in the price of gas, we think that we have a better idea of how to decorate it, we can do so as a political one. The Minister can take the initiative and come up with a new heat decision. This is being put forward in the Chamber and we can therefore discuss it widely here, but we can adapt it much more quickly when everyone realizes that we need to get rid of the principle of no more than different. I'm not gonna take anything away right now. That certainty remains in the Warm Decision. Only in the future it is possible to adapt it a little faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u52	But as a Lower House, we have set the maximum with each other through the no-more-than-other principle for a reason. I'm afraid we're gonna throw away the old shoes before we get new ones, and that that's gonna call into question what people are gonna have to pay. I'm very worried about that. That is why I have problems with Mr Van der Lee's amendment. He hasn't been able to take away my concerns right now. I am also very interested in the Minister's answer. If we attribute everything that affects our consumers to lower regulation, I do not think that this is a good development. I also believe that, as Members of Parliament, we have a duty to follow this very closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u53	I understand your concern, which I share. We are faced with a huge challenge, but also with huge risks, such as a skewed distribution of lusts and burdens. The price is therefore very important. He's so important that we need to be able to adapt quickly to new developments. I think that we can rather guarantee a better and probably lower price for everyone when we intervene in good time. If the gas price gets much higher, a heat user will feel the consequences too, while the energy used to create his heat has nothing to do with gas at all. We don't want to. I think that in many places in the energy and climate transition we already notice that we are constantly running into existing legislation. This is blocking the necessary pace we have to make. I acknowledge that an AMvB, who is being hung, is less heavy than a bill. The advantage of that is that we can treat an AMvB in a little shorter time. Of course, it is still up to the Chamber to prevent the Minister from taking a certain step. It would be a little strange if I had more confidence in the minister on this point than coalition colleague CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u54	I imagine Mrs Mulder would like to oppose this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u55	There's a lot of confidence in this minister. On other issues, such as gas extraction, I would like GroenLinks to express that same confidence in the Minister and that there will be no reports on Twitter, for example, that we are not going to settle them properly with each other. If you're talking about trust, that's what's important about that particular subject. I think we should discuss what the consumer is going to pay in the Lower House. That's what I'm committed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u56	One more sentence about that. That's what we keep talking about as a room. In the event of a suspension procedure, the Chamber shall decide. So you can simply protect the consumer. My point is that you can protect it even better if we ensure that, although I am not yet able to replace the current principle with something much better on time and at the necessary pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u57	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u58	One more question about this. In addition to the amendment, as others have already done, I would like to ask the Minister to explore what could be a better mechanism in the future than a no-more-than-other price, and of course to engage fully in consultation with all interested parties, i.e. with users and consumers, but also with heat suppliers. I'm gonna skip a little bit for the sake of time. In this Heat Act, the installation and maintenance of delivery sets are exclusively reserved for the heat supplier for safety reasons. That sounds sensible, but what exact requirements the market cannot meet are imposed on those delivery sets? Does the Minister consider it conceivable in future that the heat market will develop in such a way that supply sets could be marketed on both open and closed networks, for example with a system of accreditation and security control? This may also lead to lower costs for consumers. Does the Minister also consider this to be one of the points that can be identified by means of an exploration after the entry into force of this amendment to the Heat Act? The Minister recently, with a letter of amendment, made it possible for the amendment of the Heat Act to be in line with the decision to abolish the gas connection obligation. In addition, a maximum rate is introduced for the partial closure of the connection to a system which is also intended for the supply of heat. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance welcomes this. My group sees that there is some concern among heat suppliers about the uncertainty surrounding the inclusion of project costs in the one-off connection contribution. The fear is that the business case of many heat grids will not survive if all these project costs are not included. Can the Minister confirm that when the law refers to one-off connection costs, this includes project costs? I've received information from the House Union. The association argues that the compensation in the WWS for the costs of a delivery set for tenants of housing covered by the Heat Act does not in practice represent much because almost all rentals are rented well below the maximum rental price. The Woonbond claims that a delivery set is a real estate part of a rental house and should therefore not be charged separately to the tenant. Does the Minister consider that the Heat Act should make it clear in this respect that the costs of the delivery set should be borne by the owner of the property? Heat supply to tenants with block heating is influenced by both the Rent Act and the Heat Act. The present proposal reduces the scope of the law somewhat, so that the Rent Act weighs more heavily. On top of that, does the Cabinet consider that a tightening of the Rent Act is needed on the reasonableness of the service costs in order to better protect tenants from over-calculation of heat costs in general service costs? If we look at the Rent Act, can we examine how the costs of heating a building can be distributed in such a way that residents on the outer edges do not pay too much for the costs of heating more inwardly located accommodation units? Finally, I have heard many colleagues speak about wishes for the future. There were a lot of wishes that I also have, but I also understand that we cannot all achieve that today. We also need a lot of experiments to do that. There are good ideas about the heat ladder; there are a lot of local politicians from several parties who are already very active in this area, shouting for this law in the hope that they can make the next battle with others. In the coming period, we will have a lot of debates in which we can talk about how we can take further steps on this crucial dossier. I'll leave it at that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u59	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kops of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What is the ultimate purpose of the amendment to the Heat Act? Sustaination of heat demand, collective heat supply as a substitute for natural gas, low-carbon energy supply, Paris climate agreement, it's just a few words from the explanatory statement. And then you know enough: a legislative change as part of the energy transition. It might be nice to mention that this proposal initially included the removal of the gas connection obligation for new buildings, but that is no longer necessary. At the last moment, last week, the Minister took that out of the proposal with a letter of amendment. Chamberlains beat him to it. They have already arranged this with an amendment to the Energy Transition Progress Act. That's typical. The question is what is worse: the minister who comes up with such terrible proposals or MPs who want to take the bait of him, who want to be the good boy in the class and who want to take the credit? Anyway, that aside. I'll get on the bill myself. According to the Minister, it improves the protection of tied customers of heat. The Minister believes that this is important and necessary. Why? In connection with the support for heat grids. Is this protection in a sense of self-interest, that is to say, that those who are asked or unsolicited are kept quiet on a heat grid? Is that right? And does that mean that this protection will eventually be released when the whole energy transition has been pushed into it against the will of the citizens, there are heat grids everywhere and the question of that support is a station passed? The maximum rate that can be charged for the supply of heat is based on a gas reference; others have already spoken about it. This means that the costs a consumer incurs for the same amount of heat should not be higher than if it were to use gas as an energy source. Of course that all sounds nice and nice, but that gas reference includes the energy tax levied on gas. This energy tax is going to go up hugely in the coming period. The government wants to reduce the consumption of fossil energy, including gas, and very sadly, with increasing energy taxes, an increasing energy bill, it will succeed. Because of the rising heating costs, people are forced to turn the stove down or even off completely. How reasonable does the Minister then consider it to base the maximum rate on an artificially increasing tax on a form of energy that he himself wants to get rid of? After all, the Minister can increase the tariffs for heat by increasing the energy tax on fossil energy. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The main objective of the Heat Act is to protect tied customers from possible abuse of monopoly power by heat suppliers. That also sounds fine, of course, but it is hypocritical, because with the Heat Act and the phasing out of gas consumption at the same time, it is the minister himself who is reducing the market. A functioning market of gas suppliers and gas consumers is expertly destroyed by the Minister himself. Does the Minister then share the view that 'possible abuse of monopoly power', as he himself puts it, is the result of his own policy? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. A new element in tariff regulation is the freedom for supplier and buyer to agree a price, a price that differs from the maximum rate. Is it true that, in the interests of the customer, this should lead to a lower price than that maximum rate? If that is the case, how realistic is that in practice? After all, as the Minister himself says, there is a monopoly in the supplier. How are we supposed to see that in practice? Mr. Chairman. This minister and unfortunately most of the parties in this Chamber want the Netherlands off the gas; that is the underlying idea. First of all, households must believe in it. After all, they are easy victims; they are also small consumers, but especially easy victims. The question is what households actually think of that. I have just referred to the word "portrait." What's the status of support? Last week there was a poll in newspaper de Gelderlander, held among the readers. The theorem was: "I want to make my own choice whether my house is connected to the gas grid." That is a very clear wording, which is as clear as the outcome of this poll, namely 74%. 74% of households want to decide whether or not the house is connected to the gas network.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u61	Mrs. Mulder has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u62	Has the question been asked at all costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u63	No, because then the theorem would probably have been: I want to make my own choice whether my house is connected to the gas grid because gas is generally cheaper. There would have been something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u64	It strikes me that, whether it goes on the left or the side of Mr Kops, very often very little attention is paid to the cost side of these kinds of questions. Then it becomes fairly easy to fill in something you do want, if there is no extra cost or if you do not have that image. I can see that this is happening quite a lot and I am a little worried about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u65	What I am concerned about as a PVV is that the Minister and most of the parties want to get rid of the Netherlands. But do the citizens themselves want to do so? Polls like this show that this is not the case. It is striking that Mrs Mulder is making this interruption, because more than a year ago, on 7 February 2017, there was also an energy debate on sustainability in this Chamber. As you can see, the PVV doesn't escape anything. Then Mrs Mulder said that solutions must come from the bottom up, because support for energy policy is important. That is what she said here in this Chamber more than a year ago: acceptance is important. Well, Mrs Mulder, apparently there is no support for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u66	I could repeat that again today, because I still think that is very important. If a question is asked somewhere, you should always look carefully at whether that question is real and whether there is a fair cost. At least that is what the CDA wants and I think Mr Kops of the PVV does, but I'm trying to figure that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u67	The cost, that is what Mrs Mulder is talking about. That is also striking, because on 30 January 2018 there was an article in the Algemeen Dagblad about living without gas. That article was based on a report that showed that non-gas living costs about €18,000. That's a big deal. And what does Mrs. Mulder say? "Yes, why €18,000? All this remains to be seen from the new climate and energy agreement. I think it is too early to put the price tag of €18,000 on it. Those are estimates, so why price tags?" That's the CDA. That is based on estimates. These estimates are based on the large amounts of money involved, so the whole climate and energy policy is based on it, and that is a bad thing. That's a blank check that's being written.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u68	No, that's not a blank check at all...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u69	Yeah, of course I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u70	Is it up to me, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u71	I call Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u72	Right, but that doesn't alter the substance of what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u73	Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u74	For the CDA it is important that you look closely at the possibilities of such building-related funding. That's what the coalition agreement says. It's attractive to make such an investment that you can pay out of reducing your energy bill. But €18.000 was also an estimate, as stated in that report, based on various assumptions. I recently went to work with people who paid €12,500. We could do that with the same rent and even more, with a lower rent. Those people participated in a pilot and were very excited about it: completely off the gas. That was in Westerbork with us in Drenthe. So there are those examples. The PVV now scares everyone very much with that €18,000 and says: it's only going to go wrong and it can never work out at all...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u75	Mrs. Mulder, can you be a little shorter and positive?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u76	Mr President, you are quite right, of course, but for a moment I felt the tendency to put on some nuance. It's like the PVV has a blind spot for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u77	A blind spot, that's what the CDA has for the citizens and their energy bill, because the fact is that it's only going up hugely. That's your policy, you're responsible for it. Then we are talking about Nibud, which, for example, has to pay the €18,000 citizens, says that two and a half million households do not have that money at all. A million households live in energy poverty. Citizens just can't make it. That is what we are concerned about, yes. And you, as a CDA, should do the same. Because the policy, you are responsible for that, and that is the high energy bill, Mrs Mulder!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u78	Mr Kops, you will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u79	And then indeed parties like the CDA say: The Netherlands must get rid of the gas. It is not a question of asking the citizens. It's being forced on them! What do you mean, off the gas? It's just undemocratic and priceless. That energy bill's only going up. Last week it became clear that residents of a senior complex in Veenendaal have lost hundreds of euros more to their heating costs since the introduction of the Heat Act in 2014. Hundreds more. They can literally charge the bill, Mrs. Mulder! Don't pay any more. They're older people in a complex that lives in the kitchen, and why? So they don't have to turn on the heating in the living room. It saves costs. They also go to bed rather than desired, because it is warmer in bed. How painful do you want it? That is the reality. We don't hear about that from the CDA. In fact, the policy advocated by the CDA is the cause of these problems. How painful do you want it? And to think, the goal of the 2014 Heat Act was to protect consumers from excessive prices. What cynicism! We are now discussing changes to the Heat Act in this debate today. I'd say, here's your evaluation! Older people are literally in the cold because of the high heating costs. What's the Minister gonna do about that? The fact is that the whole energy transition costs claws full of money. How much, exactly? No one can tell you that. During the debate on the FAT Act, the Minister could not report it. Parties here don't know either. People like Mrs. Mulder don't want to put a price tag on it. No one knows, but they're all in favour of it! It has been said before: there is simply a blank cheque being written. It's like going on vacation, but you don't know where. What you do know is that it's a very expensive vacation, with the risk of getting into a cabin on the moors. That is now the energy transition in a nutshell. Mr. Chairman. It's a bizarre amount of money: €18,000; I was just talking about it. People don't have that money at all. A million households live in energy poverty. People can't pay the bill. Do the supporters of the energy transition really not realize that they are throwing people into financial misery? Or is it really a matter of looking away, is it a matter of contempt? Mr. Chairman. The VET Act, Progress on Energy Transition, a terrible law, was unfortunately accepted in this Chamber on 30 January last. However, as long as this law has not yet been passed by the First Chamber and has not yet entered into force, the system operator is still obliged to connect anyone who so requests to the gas. The PVV says to everyone who is involved: as long as it is possible, do so and ask for that gas connection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u80	Thank you, Mr Kops. I call Mrs Mulder from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u81	Mr. Chairman. And with that Mr Kops of the PVV actually says: Groningers, chuck her in! Mr. Chairman. The regulation of heat supply rightly requires a lot of attention. The reason for this is that the supply of heat is a monopolist that is both a supplier and a network operator. The present legislative amendment is an improvement of the Heat Act that has entered into force since 2014.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u82	That's a very nice frame, of course, isn't it? As so often said, we absolutely want a solution for the Groningen people. We have to get rid of the Groningen gas. It is another question whether we should generally get rid of gas. Mrs. Mulder knows that, too. But I have already said in debates that we should not abuse the poignant situation of the Groningen people in order to proclaim our own climate and sustainability story; Mrs Mulder of the CDA is doing so in particular. That has been said so many times.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u83	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u84	Mrs. Mulder's doing it here again. That is striking, because I have here an e-mail from Mrs Mulder herself to the EZK committee. In it she says: "Shall we stick to the subject? There is no Groninger waiting for political hassle and crawling. I hope we can find and strengthen each other on content." In an e-mail you call on the whole committee to stick to the subject and not to dwell on other things because the Groningers are not waiting for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u85	Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u86	You do it yourself! You do it yourself! You're not worth a snipe like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u87	I didn't hear a question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u88	Me neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u89	This is the orchestrating of the PVV, which of course we know a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u90	Then the question is, what do you think? You're being tough in an e-mail, but in the meantime you're doing a lot different here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u91	Mr. Kops, thank you very much. Your story is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u92	Yes, could Mrs Mulder perhaps respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u93	Mrs Mulder is going to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u94	I see it's like a gramophone record that gets turned off every time. I'm still trying to start the conversation, but there's very little room for that. All you're gonna get is you-boxes up your ass. I find that a pity, because I understand the concerns of his constituents very well. I share those concerns from the CDA. But if that is dealt with in such a way in the Lower House, then it just stops for a while. Mr. Chairman. The present amendment is an improvement of the Heat Act, which has entered into force since January 2014. The main element of the bill is that the scope of the Heat Act is limited. The result is that the heat supply in block heating is no longer regulated by the Heat Act. That's good news. We have held hearings on this with frustrated owners' associations, who were obliged to compensate themselves in the event of malfunctions. Now there is finally the change of the law. In addition, the bill regulates the supply of cold and lukewarm water, the one-off connection fee and the contribution for closure and delivery sets. As a group, we still have a number of questions about this change of law and the current functioning of the Heat Act. I would also like to focus on the future of heat grids. It is our hope that in the future we will be able to meet more of the Dutch heat requirements with heat grids. In that case, it is problematic that the explanatory memorandum and the evaluation report of the Heat Act show that consumers perceive tariffs as unclear and high. The Council of State also points this out. This makes it even more important that current customers of heat are well protected. When releasing the no-more-than-other principle, the NMDA principle, as has often been mentioned today, they must remain protected. Does the Minister agree with the CDA that existing heat consumers should be protected at too high rates? There's still a lot of noise in society about high costs. People feel overwhelmed. Several colleagues have already mentioned this. For example, last month in Emmen there was a lawsuit about high costs that residents were charged. The judge also said that those costs were hard to explain. Without claiming to know this case at all, it gives an idea of how the consumer is being dealt with. The CDA is concerned about this, as are other groups in this House. We need everyone to achieve the energy transition. That is precisely why it is very important that all costs are transparent, including in future changes to the Heat Act, and that we are talking about this in this Chamber. The Council of State makes comments on the no-more-than-other principle. In addition, rising gas prices and gas taxation increase the costs of heat. For future investments, too, the question is whether the principle of heat grids is not too restrictive to be successful. On the other hand, we see that heat suppliers now charge their customers the maximum rate every time. Shouldn't it be less than usual? Mr Moorlag also mentioned this. Is the Minister prepared to examine what alternatives there are for linking to the gas price? Mr. Chairman. The tricky thing is that the different types of heat grids, for a building or for an area, and the different techniques now all fall under the same no-more-than-other principle. When looking at the efficiency monitor of the ACM, it is noted that the yields may vary considerably depending on the heat source. For example, heat-cold storage facilities, cogeneration and heat networks on central heating boilers generally have a poor efficiency. The three larger and older cogeneration plants, residual heat and the category "others" have a positive efficiency. To what extent is it possible to differentiate heat prices by building or area heat grid or by technology? In the case of smaller heat networks, powered by watts and watts or CVs, the application of the no-more-than-other principle may be logical and fair, but in the case of larger heat networks and in the use of residual heat and geothermal energy, the CDA can imagine that there can be a deviation from this. How does the Minister view this? Mr. Chairman. Block heating goes out of the Heat Act and we are happy with that. There were too many demands that owners' associations suffered from. Then you think: problem solved. But it doesn't seem to be quite like that. Mr Van der Lee and the colleague of the Christian Union, Mrs Dik-Faber, also spoke about this. We are achieving sounds that perhaps something should still be legally regulated now that the vves are going back to rental law. Because what are they allowed to do and what are they not allowed to charge in the service costs? Would the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs like to discuss this with his colleague from the Interior, so that we can be clear? Then, of course, it is about the Decision service costs. This is particularly important, because we want to protect our tenants from unfairly high service costs. And to what extent does the Minister consider it real that tenants would receive information about the efficiency of the boiler and the operation of the installation at the annual service charge? Mr. Chairman. The Energy Performance Monitor heat suppliers of the ACM recommend that further rules be laid down on the annual report to be produced by heat suppliers, as can be seen in Article 12a (2) of the Heat Act. The ACM argues that the definitions of turnover, costs and asset value used by suppliers may differ from those used for the efficiency monitor. Our question is: is it possible to establish in the Heat Decision that the annual reports of heat suppliers use the same definitions as the efficiency monitor of the ACM? Is the Minister prepared to agree with those concerned or impose these rules if necessary? Mr. Chairman. In the letter of 11 December, the Minister announced a new amendment of the Heat Act, which will be sent to the Chamber in 2019, to regulate independent grid management, other heat suppliers' access to the existing grid and sustainability. The CDA supports this aim in order to make better use of ever more sustainable heat grids in the future. It is also important to invest in the construction of these heat grids. The CDA would like Invest-NL to play an important role in this. Does the Minister see this opportunity? Will he help make it possible for Invest-NL to invest in future heat grids? Mrs van D66, Mr Jetten, also wondered about this and Mrs Dik-Faber had questions about it. Mr. Chairman. We have heard all our colleagues here today about independent grid management in heat grids. This is particularly necessary in the case of larger nets. Other steps are also being taken. It is good that the Minister has EBN map out where geothermal energy has the most potential. We can read that in last Thursday's letter. Municipalities get a big role in this. They will decide where there are sufficient heat sources, including geothermal energy, and whether there should be a heat network there. Network operators who know where the gas networks are in need of replacement and housing companies planning to make their housing stock more sustainable will also have to be connected to this. It's really a complex whole. Good consultation structures are needed to identify and decide on all these aspects. To what extent are these consultation structures already in place? How can we let them be part of the new climate and energy agreement? Is the Minister going to use the money that we have made available for this purpose in the government agreement towards the municipalities? At the moment, for example, in the municipality of Haarlem people are looking at the possibilities for geothermal energy. There they can use a push in the right direction by such a test drill to gain more knowledge. That's what I read back in the Minister's letter. Our question is: can he give extra support to these municipalities, which are already ahead, so that they can make that battle? If you're going to look at the replacement of your gas network, now is the time to really get on with it. Mr. Chairman. In addition, in horticulture areas there is a need for the supply of CO. That is often raised by them themselves. Is the Minister prepared to consider how to improve the infrastructure and regulatory framework for the supply of CO in order to further improve the sustainability of the horticultural sector? These were my questions. I think I've stayed within ten minutes. I am also curious to hear the answers to the questions raised by colleagues on freedom of choice. We have also received emails about this. That's difficult, of course. It can only be done if you have larger nets that have multiple providers on them. Then there is the question: what do you do with the people who do not yet want to use that heat network and who want another option? Are we going to socialize all these costs? There's a field of tension. I think that the Minister would like to say something about this, because we must not allow that total bill to go up by allowing each individual to make entirely his own decisions. I'm very excited about that. I would like to hear the Minister's position on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u95	Thank you, Mrs Mulder. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I would like to suspend for a few moments and then we will continue with the Government's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u96	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u97	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the large number of questions. We only have a limited time. A number of questions are about the law as it stands, some are about the law as it might have to be in the future and some are about related issues. I will try to answer the first questions as much as possible. Perhaps we can also give some answers by letter. Some of them also fit into tomorrow's AO Mining. I'm gonna start with everything about connection and closure. Then we have the issue of scope in which rental rights play a role. A lot of questions have been asked that are actually related to the energy transition, the planning, access, open networks, the gas reference and the whole scaling-up issue. That's what I want to do at the end. I would also like to take the costs into account. The subject has had a very long run. All we have here is a repair. The Heat Act was once an initiative of the CDA. He's not here right now. Let's see, yeah. The law did not enter into force until 2014 and has been evaluated very quickly. There were all kinds of things coming out, and they're being looked at now. The purpose of the law is explicitly simply consumer protection. So it is not about the roll-out of renewable energy. It is not about the transition or about where heat grids should be. It's purely consumer protection. It is about tariffs, security of supply, service and complaint handling: very practical. We do that, of course, because they are monopoly situations. Mrs Mulder said that consumers feel at ease. If you're gonna deliver someone into our country, you're gonna have to protect them, and we always do. But once again, it doesn't mean that all heat grids will suddenly be created as a result of this law. If you meet traffic rules, that does not mean that a large number of roads are suddenly built. That's something else. Heat Act 2.0 is still in progress. You have made a large number of suggestions and asked questions about them; I will try to deal with them. Of course, one thing you don't solve in the main is that you can never solve two problems at the same time with a law like this. The two things that are complained about, and that is a bit of all times with heat: suppliers complain about the efficiency and the customers about the costs. That's never gonna be solved in one go. I can't. That is what we are seeing here, so we must do our utmost to protect consumers. We still have the gas reference for that at the moment. That will have to be changed in the future. I will come up with that in a moment, but many have already brought me to a complete halt and mowed away the grass in front of my feet, because that cannot of course remain the case. Those heat grids do play a role in this transition, but we also need to realise that this will be different from what is happening now. We now have a lot of fossil heat grids or heat grids on waste incineration. Sustainable heat grids are very few. We really need to focus the new generation of heat grids on that goal, but that does not change the traffic rules on the heat grid in itself. But it is good to keep in mind that from now on, growth should not be that we move forward from the past. We need to reduce waste incineration and do more on geothermal, for example. It can also be processes that can release inherent heat. So there are all kinds of techniques, but the traffic rules don't change. I'm getting ahead of a few things. I consider the experimental assessment to be rather important myself. Of course, that helps, but a lot of things we just don't have yet. The various subjects have also come along: the right to heat each individual right to heat, not the right to heat as the jurisdiction of heat, the organization, not insignificant the financing, and the sustainability of the sources. That's all gonna come later in the end. I'll start with the connection. Several questions have been asked about this, which actually simply refer to a document by the Energy Netherlands. I believe that Mr Moorlag has also made a direct reference to it. Mr Van der Lee has asked what that really is about. Energy Netherlands is concerned about this, because they say that they will not be able to pass it on. They say that they are in a kind of cap and are therefore no longer able to build nets in a cost-effective way. The development and construction of a heat network takes place in a new building area....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Very often this is reflected in the house price. That's not weird. In municipal projects this also happens with the lampposts, the pavements and so on. That doesn't have to be regulated either, because you can buy the house but you can leave it alone. It's the same with sidewalks and lampposts. That is the appropriate and most common way; that doesn't change anything. That is not regulated, it can be passed on and everyone has freedom of choice. What Energie-Nederland apparently is concerned about is that so far it has been possible for the supplier to charge the user separately in their documents. That is technically not true, because it is not included in the current Heat Act on that list of things that may be passed on, so that is a possibility that is sometimes used in practice but nowhere has a place in the law. That will be regulated for all new buildings. This is justified in itself, because consumers may not be sufficiently aware when buying such a house that they are tied to a kind of subscription. But the most logical and so far strictly the only allowed method of calculating that remains. The way I see it, Energy Netherlands is making itself very strong for the restoration of something that was never broken and actually didn't exist at all. So we should not be concerned about the realisation of these projects, because that project contribution simply continues to exist and is actually just part of the house price, just like other things are included in the house price. Shutting it down is another story. Mr Jetten is actually very elegant in that, because he wants people to get off the gas quickly. I don't think he wants people to get off their heat grid quickly, but he wants to know what that is about for the symmetry of this whole thing. But it's not that easy. You're gonna put on a heat grid with each other. There's a cost to that. To say ex post that you don't like it and just to say it isn't self-evident. It is also not self-evident that there is another way of reducing heat. It is also not entirely self-evident that the unbundling is possible at all. And when you start a project with each other, it's certainly not that everyone should be free to step out, because the last one who gets out of it may have a very bad day. So we simply need to make different agreements on this. It should not always be possible to leave without further ado. This would make investments in these networks very risky. Another concern is that of another interest organisation...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u98	Before you proceed, Mr Jetten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u99	I was hoping there'd be something more. Because in practice, for example, it is also about people who are connected to a heat grid and who do not think that heat grid is green enough, go into isolation, solar panels, heat pumps, etc. and say: I'm just self-sufficient; why do I still have to sit on that dirty heat grid of the city of Amsterdam, for example? Those people pay more than €1,000 fine if they say they don't want to participate in that district heating. So I understand the Minister says it's something different from gas networks. That's fine. But will the Minister promise that he will look at the next heat bill to see how the possible closure of heat grids can be regulated in a good way?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u100	In that case, Mr Jetten preaches situations which do not arise very often, namely situations in which a person with a home could choose between several heat grids. We already have trouble making choice in fiberglass possible, so to speak, and it's just been carved 20 centimeters deep into the street. Options for heat networks are rather hypothetical; let's put it this way. Heat grids are really capital-intensive things. It is really not self-evident to create an opt-out. It is natural that we should think about that. Mr Jetten will certainly come back to that. After thinking, we can have this discussion again. But I'm not going to suggest that it's important or even self-evident that that opt-out will just be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u101	I am not so much concerned with an opt-out so that you can be connected to another heat grid, because that will indeed not be possible in practice. That's why we want open nets, so you can at least choose between suppliers of heat. But the opt-out is for people who say: I'm just going full electric; I'm in a place where a heat grid is or is going to come, but I choose full electric. Is that freedom of choice at a decent price an option to take along with the next heat bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u102	One of Mr Jetten's colleagues has asked: will a heat grid be required when it comes along? There's no reason for that in itself. If you do not participate in advance and if you choose another solution, it will of course be possible in many cases. Of course, it also depends a little on the agreements, whether the project developer has already signed or not. In principle it is possible, but first participate and thus give certainty to your fellow participants and then get out, is simply more complicated. But in principle, Mr Jetten and I are both in favour of as much freedom of choice as possible. I understand his intention, but freedom of choice sometimes also requires that you fulfill an obligation after you have made the choice. So I don't think it's entirely natural. A concern of the Aedes organisation has also been received. She says: yes, yes, yes, it comes under the rental right now, but is that okay and can we take it with us in the service costs? That's a good question, because if you can't include it in the service costs, you have to ask yourself if this is such a happy maneuver. It's been thoroughly sorted out. I'm being asked to contact BZK's colleague, but that's already been done. In fact, that resulted in a letter explaining the situation to Aedes. It clearly states that it is possible, that it is even a wise idea, and that there are no restrictions to organising it properly. That letter might need to be posted on the site or something. Then anyone can take notice of it. I found the answer from BZK very credible. This is my answer to the question by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Moorlag, Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u103	The sender of the letter believes that the question has been adequately answered and that the issue has apparently been resolved. But was that also checked with the recipient of that letter? Is that a consensus?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u104	Yes. I believe that there has been calmness and reassurance. I understand that Mr Moorlag's reassurance is now a derivative of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u105	To avoid misunderstandings, I like to be reassured.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u106	In order to avoid misunderstandings, I do little more than reassure Mr Moorlag. We have received even more mail from interest groups, for example from the Consumers' Association. He asks: can we work together on the market organisation? Yes. That's a good idea. This is also explicitly the purpose of the Heat Act 2.0. For example, a distinction can be made between large transmission networks and distribution networks and regulated network management tasks. Those tasks can be public or private. The nets can also be public or private. But the parallel with electricity doesn't go all the way. With electricity you can easily keep track: you deliver to the grid or not and you take it off the grid or not. There's not much else to play. You just need to keep an eye on that. I think Mr Jetten is very happy, but I am trying to avoid any joke. This is possible in the case of electricity generation. But with heat, there's one more dimension. It is not just about the amount of energy supplied but also about the temperature level. That makes the puzzle very complex. You can talk about open access and separation of networks, but it is even more complex. If the heat grid works at 120oC, then delivering at 40oC is not very helpful; that does not help. The other way around could help, but is probably not always optimal. So that's complicated. Moreover, it is inherent to smaller heat grids that there are fewer suppliers. Often it will be the case that if the heat grid is the monopolist, so will the heat supplier. The unscrewing of something does not lead to a less monopolistic situation. This does not mean that we should not think wisely about the order. We certainly have to. This also means that we need to think about open nets. We really need to move towards a situation where the large networks are more open. But it's not that obvious. The reference to the electricity and gas networks does not make it all clear at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u107	Mr Jetten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u108	I believe that the distinction made by the Minister between large and small nets is relevant. I can imagine that transport networks, for example, are more likely to be used as open networks than the distribution networks that have branches to the houses in the neighbourhoods. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u109	Yeah, I think we should definitely look for opportunities with the big nets. But even then, they are more complicated than in the gas and electricity markets. But that's where I'd look for them. The next question that many have asked is whether the gas reference is a logical one in the long term. The question is whether it is logical at the moment, because we have the situation that you should not ask more than the gas reference indicates. The efficiency of the net is something that follows and that may be very unattractive. In the long run, you'll have to do something more cost-oriented in one way or another. That's irrevocable. You will have to look closely at that too, because someone who is cost-oriented but monopolist has no incentive to control the costs. So we really have to pay attention to that and that is not going to be so easy. I am also implicitly saying that I cannot entirely agree with Mr Moorlag, who says that it must always be less than usual. That would be very nice, but that is not automatically the result of this comparison. That simply cannot be done. Because if it always has to be less than otherwise, we are at the current level with a gas reference and it is often not profitable now, then there is little incentive in society to start a heat network. In any case, Mr Moorlag will not lead the way, I predict that. And neither do I.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u110	The question to the Minister is how he will stimulate people to switch to heat grids. I believe that the path of positive incentives to take a step is the most appropriate one. That's how it works with electric cars and solar panels. There will have to be some form of temptation. What other incentives does the Minister see besides financial incentives?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u111	Look, the temptation now is that this repair of the law is still based on the gas reference. In the long run, if you changed the tax on gas, that reference changes. But the most important thing, of course, is that you can offer the consumer, at least on an average basis, that it does not become more expensive. Municipalities are going to make heat plans. A certain district would then have to switch over in a certain year. What we haven't talked about yet, but what we really need to think about is this. We have now introduced that the gas connection obligation is going to disappear. At some point it must be possible to decide to shut down the gas. There is no other way, otherwise we will stay on gas until the year 2100. So the consumer must be able to make a gradual transition in a manageable and attractive way. If that's a non-binding thing for years, or a subsidised thing forever, then we're not gonna win this game.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u112	The question is, of course, how do you link 250,000 homes per year to a heat supply other than natural gas? Well, then you're gonna have to come up with some positive financial incentives. Look, an alderman of a municipality can make beautiful heat plans and go into the neighbourhood centers with higher explanation. But if the residents say, "Dear Alderman, I bought a new central heating boiler two years ago, I'm not from yesterday to start writing off that thing early and paying the same rate if I lost it for natural gas, shouldn't that question have to be answered positively?"
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u113	Well, we all know it's not like someone's knocking on your door from one day to the next saying you should throw away your resume. The critical questioners in this room also know that it never works that way in the Netherlands we knock at a door and say: I want €18,000 of you and tomorrow you will be off the gas. We know that. What we need to talk about is that for all these neighbourhoods and based on all kinds of pilots and experiences that we are about to gain, there will be manageable arrangements. Part of this are financing arrangements. There are two members of the fan club building-related funding here. I now like to join as a member. I hear that argument all the time and I always agree with it. We do think we can send Dutch people a big bill, but we can't. We have to make it easy. We need to think about a certain degree of socialisation on any scale, but it is also just part of financing arrangements. We often have that Dutch people with limited budgets buy something expensive, for example a house. I can do that. We have mortgages and all kinds of arrangements for that. Even have mortgage guarantees for that. It doesn't have to be with Invest-NL either. It's not all uncertain investments. Invest-NL is for all kinds of uncertainty where the government can influence something. That's not necessarily this, but it just needs to be made easy for people, often in a collective way. That can be building-bound and in all kinds of ways. We just have to make it easy to handle one step at a time. Then there comes a time when you say: now it's become such a natural choice that we're going to talk to the last switchpers about whether the gas grid goes out or is being used for hydrogen or something else. Then we must also be able to talk at some point about the possibility of closing down. But we're not there yet, because first we have a challenge. That is sung here in all keys by everyone. All sides of the political spectrum have united in this. If we don't make this in a neat, controlled way affordable and manageable for those who have a household, this won't work. That's what we're gonna be doing in the next few days. If you ask me for precise answers, I say: I don't know them yet. But I'm a member of the fan club for building-related funding. All that about that. I know that it would be attractive and perhaps along the lines of the questions to elaborate very specifically on exactly what that design should look like. I admit that the market organization itself was one of my hobbies, but I think we should not do that now. There is now a limited repair to protect consumers, but that is all it is. We all see the challenges. I think I have not yet reached a large number of questions, so I am passing through the various spokesmen. I have actually already given Mrs Beckerman an answer in the sense that I fully agree with her that we should keep this affordable. It should not only be affordable, it should also be manageable. One is what the charges per month are on average. But it's also about behavior. If we send someone a big bill in one go, it's not gonna work. There are always people who buy a kitchen for such a price, but there are also people who do not. They can't. So it's not gonna work out. I agree with her. You can also grab back in time and say: the government gave away free devices, because then it becomes affordable. I don't know if that's the line either, because there's nothing free. We'll all do it. The complete socialization with something free to give away to everyone, can be if you all need the same, but then you might as well pass it on. I don't think this is such a situation. I think we need to make sure that this remains affordable in other ways. One of them is "I know this is a bit of my stick horse" that we just have to keep it cheap. We should not make the transition more expensive than necessary, because these costs come through taxes, through the fixed right and through the energy always on our plate. Even the costs of the companies come to us at some point. We need to keep the social burden as low as possible. We need to get rid of them. Here and there we have to push. We have the ISDE for that. It may in some way also play a role in future situations, but it is impossible to say that the government is going to pay for the transition. That's not gonna work. Mrs Beckerman has a broader concern: how do we ensure that fossil networks are phased out and that, from now on, there are mainly non-fossil networks? She shares that concern with many in this room. I agree with this point, but it is not linked to a law aimed at consumer protection. It must be part of the climate agreement. We have to go large and not commit ourselves to solutions that are really obsolete in ten years' time, because that is what they are at some point. I also briefly addressed Mrs Yeşilgöz's concerns. Wherever that makes sense, we must promote freedom of choice. We have to ask ourselves where that makes sense and how we can promote it. The splitting of nets may make sense, but we need to focus on it where it makes sense. It also asks whether socialisation is a solution to the fact that people now often pay too much. There are two answers to that. Firstly, with this law, we are promoting that people do not pay too much. They may otherwise have been cheaper in individual cases, but they cannot be calculated with individual cases. If I get a central heating boiler from Marktplaats and never boil, my alternative costs are zero. This law is precisely intended to ensure that people, especially on an average basis, do not pay too much. If they do, socializing them is not a solution, because excessive costs still lead to too high costs. We must create a regime in which the networks are just making sufficient returns and that is affordable for those who use them. She also asks how I see the experimental space and when heat law 2. I think the Heat Act 2 will come in the first quarter of 2019. I don't think this was the right answer... My memory is failing me. People are disappointed that I do not have the legislative calendar properly in mind. We're gonna hear about it. Experiments are important for the Heat Act. We need to figure out what works and what doesn't. Once you enter a heat grid, you will always feel somewhat bound. This is also the case in a number of other situations around a home. A place is where it is. That always plays a role. We need to do it as neatly as possible. In the first tranche we will also immediately try to find gas-free areas, as far as I am concerned in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u114	Mrs Yeşilgöz has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u115	Perhaps this is already in the planning process, but is it possible that we will be informed about the experiments that are being carried out in the coming time? For example, we have an overview of what works and what is looked at. Then, if the law is dealt with here somewhere in 2019, we have an explanation from the minister of what has worked well and what we can think of. I think we will get that information from all sides of the country, but I also like it when it comes together with an opinion and an explanation from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u116	I think that's a good idea, because we're not doing these experiments for nothing. The representative of the people should be able to take note of what has been achieved and what has just failed. So let's try that. We should be able to use what we have learned to support the bill. Sometimes it also helps a lot to learn what you shouldn't do. Market organization is quite common with falling and getting up. We have noticed this in the past in many sectors. That's why it's such a motivational hobby, albeit not an easy one. Mr Wassenberg has asked several questions, including whether we can give sustainable heat priority to non-sustainable heat. This presupposes first of all a very open network, in which you can make trade-offs between suppliers. That's not obvious. I also think that we should not say that in future certain forms of energy will no longer be allowed through some form of heat grid or successor. In individual cases it may still be useful to use residual heat for a while. I do not think that we should create priority in the sense of something established by the state. Mr Wassenberg will mean that the consumer can indicate a preference. I'm just looking at him in the eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u117	The moment you get priority, that doesn't mean you cut off one source completely. It just means that something has priority. The Minister says "there is no such thing yet," but that amendment to the Heat Act is not for infinity, but for the years to come. Those changes may be moving fast. It may just be that in a few years you will have networks on which different suppliers operate. And then that labeling is gonna play a role. Is the government willing, are you willing to look at an energy label? And can we see if we can give sustainable priority to non-sustainable? Don't cut it off. It's priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u118	Twice in itself, yes, but I can imagine it better in the long run than I do now. In the long term it makes sense to label, but it is still a little early to decide what that should look like. Let's see if we can somehow, if only in a growth path, give it a place in a new Heat Act. Then we can gradually develop something that consumers can benefit from, but which producers can also meet. I think that's a good idea. Furthermore, Mr Wassenberg had some unhindered criticism. I am always looking forward to the velvet beating that awaits me in a debate. There is no person who serves me as courteously as critical and as courteous as Mr Wassenberg. He always does that in an extremely friendly way, but at the same time he clearly states that there is little good. Insufficient, he says. Well, look, not enough, this law isn't meant to be enough at once either. He's talking about the long-term system switch, but I have to apologize to him anyway. The long-term system switch is not included in an update of a law aimed at consumer protection. I listened to his speech. Some of it had my approval, but it was explicit for the long-term system switch and not for this law. Mr Jetten stressed the importance of space for experimentation. Sure, that's going to affect all kinds of physical things and planning principles as well. He also says that business cases are stuck because there is not enough socialization. I'm just looking at him in the eye. Does he mean that we should do every heat grid throughout the Netherlands with a fixed rate? That makes an enormous anti-selection possible. That could go wrong, too. If you do that, you can always say: if I see good or cheap solutions in electrification, but the costs of a heat grid are very high for me, while they offer the cheapest solution because of socialisation, then we get to help each other to a higher cost level. You always have to make sure that those who decide, feel the costs that come with that decision. Otherwise, it's gonna go wrong. In other cases, we have made an exception. But so it can happen that someone has a very expensive connection and has socialized it. That's not always optimal. In the case of electricity and gas networks, it is to some extent up to that point, but these are sometimes very expensive connections. You can shoot really great goats. The fact that some business cases are stalled by lack of socialisation could therefore also be the goal, because you don't want some business cases. Then Mr Jetten has shown very plastically how he thinks he is going to rise on the heat ladder. I would not want to prescribe a heat ladder from a national point of view, even if the heat ladder, called the 'trias energica' by Mrs Dik-Faber, does not, I believe, always go up either. It is not true, Mrs Faber, that we must first save to the ultimate, that after we have saved almost everything, we will then move on to alternative generation and that we will only then go on to exchange heat. It's all just customization, too. If we had large quantities of electricity that we could store or use at household level in off-peak hours for, for example, water heating, which is also a storage method, then it is clearly not true that the ultimate insulation is always needed. You don't have to. We don't know that, but we need to find out what the climate agreement is about. We also need to set things in motion to find out. I'll give everyone their own customized heat ladder.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u119	I may not have been clear enough in my first term; so I will try again. I agree with the Minister's answer, but my point was another. I would like to use a heat ladder or call it a "CO ladder," which doesn't really make me want to have that much for every heat grid. For example, if you now have a heat grid on a coal plant, that is heat label F or E, out of my mind. I'd actually like to meet with those heat companies. Excellent that you now have heat label E with that coal plant, but we also want to be on label B for all heat networks in 2030. So you know: you have to go to geothermals, you have to look for other sources. I would therefore like the Minister to make arrangements with those parties to report openly on this and also to show how they are becoming ever more sustainable over the years with their entire heat grid; not specifically on a household, but on the entire heat grid.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u120	The large parties, the large heat grid operators, will therefore have to be irrevocably involved in the climate agreement and indicate how they are going to comply with it, because the source they are using now, perhaps in 20 years' time, is not really usance anymore. So I agree. I would like Mr Jetten to use the word 'heat ladder' for that; it may also be 'heat agreements'. But then we'll understand each other better. The fact that large consumers are not covered by the Heat Act does not mean that they cannot be users of that heat, but only that they do not need the same level of consumer protection. We have a consumer authority in the Netherlands, but it does not work for business-to-business, because that is another field. Large parties are supposed to make their own arrangements. The consumer is in a different position, an unequal position. There we want protection, but a large party that joins a heat grid can really negotiate it itself. It does not need the same rights as a consumer. Consumer protection is real for consumers. Lower regulation takes time. May 2018 is that lower regulation than ready. The amendment of the Heat Decision could be put forward in June. Then at the end of 2018 we have the possible adoption of all these regulations. I found the distinction between one- and two-earners that Mr Jetten is questioning interesting. I'm not sure that's so different. I'm just looking for the differences. As we have now fixed the maximum price, at least, we have not yet established it, but it is contained in the legislative proposal, and there is Maximation both at the level of fixed duty and at the level of variable charges. What's different about that than electricity or gas? We'll do it the same way. I know that in the case of household waste there is still thought of in pollution units, but that is in fact the diversification of a waste rate. This is already included in the user-dependent part, i.e. in the variable loads. That seemed like a decent way to do it. We're doing it with those pollution units because you can't pay by garbage bag. Here you can pay per joule, so the problem is a little less for this. I thought that was done pretty neatly. Mrs Dik-Faber asks if I would like to elaborate on the combination...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u121	There is a short question from Mr Jetten. I'm looking at the clock a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u122	I know, Mr. Chairman. One more question, I'm sorry. I mentioned in my first term that we still have a lot of things to deal with via AMvBs. The Minister has now given a timetable when they come to the Chamber. One aspect, namely the maximum rate to be set by the ACM, is not now submitted to the Chamber via the front. Is the Minister prepared to share that AMvB with the Chamber anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u123	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u124	The answer is yes. Before you continue, I would like briefly to inform Members that today we are completing the first term of the government and planning the second term of this debate at another time, so that you know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u125	That's always a shame. As we know: as you delay a second term longer, it starts to look more like a first term in terms of length.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u126	Yes, but there we will...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u127	This is purely disciplined, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u128	Yeah, now I get it. Thank you for this encouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u129	Yeah, but that's for future consumption, because tonight's incentive isn't gonna do us any good. Mrs Dik-Faber rightly says that there is a clear link between the temperature of the heat grids and the insulation. As you can do the insulation better, the heat grid can work at a lower temperature and you can do the combined power generation of the higher temperatures. It's more efficient to do that with low temperatures. She's asking me to fill that out. That's a little complicated with government control. We need to develop concepts in the built environment in which we do this. The electrification can help, because a certain amount of residual heat can be reprocessed with heat pumps on electricity. Then it would be very beneficial not to push that up too high. This is an optimization which I do not want to enter, but which is undoubtedly going to occur in the market and which is already taking place. She asks how I guarantee in the law that the residual heat is sustainable. I'm not bailing that out in this law, but that's what we're trying to do. In the climate agreement, we want to ensure that heating in the built environment, including what we do with the heat grids, becomes sustainable in the long term. But I cannot guarantee that in legislation specifically aimed at heat grids. She asks me the question of conscience about biomass. For this I refer to the coalition agreement, which announces that it will be phased out. She says: consumers are often too expensive. There's two sides to that. It could mean we miscalculated the averages. That does not seem very likely to me, because there is a very professional party working on this in great detail. Or Mrs Dik-Faber refers to the fact that an average is even an average and that in theory it could be slightly more expensive for some people and cheaper for others. The question is whether you can determine that. How does someone who's on a heat grid know he'd be cheaper off? He doesn't have a central heating boiler, he didn't try it, he doesn't know exactly what it costs, so how can he say that? I've lived in a house with a heat grid for four years. I too, as a consumer, was secretly inclined to think that they would extort me and that I was also in the cold. But, yeah, I wasn't actually informed about that. I said that because it's easy to say, but was it really? Then Mrs Dik-Faber asks whether it is possible to offer more freedom of choice in the delivery set. I think that's an interesting question. To some extent there is of course freedom of choice in this, because the rent of the average delivery set has been taken into account when charging. But you can choose a different delivery set for all kinds of reasons and in consultation with the supplier, because you will eventually pay the actual costs of the delivery set yourself. That is also the freedom of choice as it should be: that you can make a balance between the utility and the cost. It also asks whether the protection is deteriorating. I don't think so. Maybe that's where she's asking about the limitation of scope, where we're now going to depend on rental rights. There are differences between those two, though. One has components that don't have the other and the other. The rules do refer to each other a lot. The most important thing is that the protection is there in both cases. She's different, but one isn't clearly better than the other. Especially the hassle is reduced by the limitation of scope. Then she asks for her motion on public funds for residual heat from coal plants. As she refers to her motion, it would refer to the fact that waste heat from coal-fired power stations should no longer be used, but in my view the motion on public funds was for that purpose. A letter about that went to the Chamber once. The crux is, of course, that there is no public funding for the financing of heat grids, not even for residual heat from coal. But I agree with her that there is little point in investing now, and certainly not with public funds, in residual heat from coal plants. I don't think we're gonna get that in our head. That would be my prophecy. If someone puts a business case on the table for that, I would find it particularly interesting to take it home with the spreadsheets behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u130	I am very pleased with the Minister's last words on coal-fired power stations. I have a question. At the very beginning of answering my questions, the Minister mentioned the combination of savings and sustainable heat and as much sustainable use as possible in the case of the Trias Energetica. He also considered it important to discuss this in the climate and energy agreement. I understand that, because the government can't do all that by itself, of course. But the government can make a guiding statement or send the right movement in another way. I would be so sorry if the market didn't pick this up properly, for example by creating a heat grid at a drafty flat. We don't really want that. Are there not instruments that the government has, even if it is only a compelling appeal, at least, to call on those parties to do the right thing and just really take it very cleverly?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u131	There is, of course, a toolbox that we also use and which also contains a passage in the coalition agreement, and these are the building standards. In this way, it is forced that new homes have to meet higher requirements. You could also make a differentiation according to how it is heated. You could also take into account how the electricity situation develops. Essentially, that is what the government is doing: we are forcing new homes to meet a certain level of isolation. In the long term, this will lead to a real change in the built environment. We're really gonna see that. That happens slowly, but already it is true that if you cycle through cities and pay attention to the percentage of double glazing, you will find some other homes compared to 30 years ago. That is what these standards are going to enforce. It'll take a while, but that's an instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u132	Because of the time I jump a bit off the heel on the branch, because I also had a question about the position of the tenants. The Minister says that it doesn't really matter to the tenants whether they are covered by the Heat Act or the rental right, but the rental right doesn't have a maximum rate. The Minister said that in assessing the reasonableness of costs, the Rent Commission may refer to the maximum rate under the Heat Act, but this is not a hard limit in the rental right. That gives me the impression that this makes tenants less protected. Can the Minister explain again why he does not think that is the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u133	Because the rental right offers several possibilities to justify the reasonableness. One of them is a reference to the Heat Act. If someone wants to demonstrate reasonableness in a different way, so can they, but in itself there is just protection of tenants in force. Therefore, the doubts that arose in limiting the scope were not about the level of protection. They were mainly concerned with the question of whether they could be passed on in a good way and whether this would really reduce the burden and the fuss. There is no doubt as to whether this protection is in order. The rental right in the Netherlands is strong. Let's see. Then I was with Mr Van der Lee. Mr Van der Lee, with Mrs Mulder in the wake, is bringing Invest-NL in very quickly. I do not know whether that should necessarily be the outcome, because if you think that heat networks that are built in new buildings, for example, already find part of the cover in the house price in advance and can continue to ensure that the costs are reimbursed, then it should be one of the safer investments, where there is no major market failure that the government should resolve. In fact, if I were a pension fund and I was looking for a solid basis of investment that I don't have to worry about all day, I'd take this one. That is perhaps the opposite of what we want with Invest-NL. I find all the suggestions interesting, but I do not want to proceed here to confirm a claim on Invest-NL. Moreover, I hear Invest-NL very often come to the discussions. Then I sometimes start to worry a little about the budgets that we have now, because it becomes very easy in the Empire to pull Invest-NL off the stable as deus ex machina, like that rich uncle from America who suddenly died and left a great legacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u134	Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u135	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the opportunity to take on board a little for Mr Mulder of the CDA. I think we have mentioned this as one of the examples of sources of funding for the broad transition. We also talked about geothermals. This also requires risky investments where a pension fund does not just board. It is a broader palette of innovative developments. I fully agree with the Minister that, if you have a solid business case, it should also be quite possible to interest regular financiers. The more, the better, but that alone won't be enough. In this light, Invest-NL should also play a role in this transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u136	Now, in my turn, I agree with Mr Van der Lee's last words, because geothermal projects are much more likely to do so. That is where I would expect a clear role to arise. Hey, it doesn't really work out to fight big here in this plenary debate. That's not interesting for the media. To think about releasing the delivery set I find an interesting suggestion. I'll take it with me. The delivery kit does have a very large impact on the functioning of the network. That's what you should come up with pretty precise standards for. I do not know whether the Dutch citizen's sense of freedom of choice is ultimately satisfied by choosing the delivery set, but let us take that as a suggestion. Let's see. Same applies to the suggestion regarding the delivery set between the owner versus the tenant. I'll take that too. Then we have Mr. Kops. I thought that was another highlight of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u137	Before you proceed, Mr Van der Lee has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u138	I had an interrupting debate with Mrs Mulder on the amendment I tabled. It would be very useful for me, also in preparation for the second term, if the Minister did indicate how he feels about that amendment. We have talked about the no-more-than-other principle, but now it is purely about the next question. Would it be useful if we laid down that principle not in the law itself but in the Heat Decision, given that we all know that something needs to be changed in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u139	Let me see... that is Mr Van der Lee's amendment to Article 1 (a), Article 5 et cetera. This gives the possibility to change to another reference in the future, albeit not yet defined how. I understand him. He says: it's a way of lawmaking that might be in line with the uncertainty that exists and that makes it possible to arrange it in a different way if something doesn't work. I can only agree with that. I have no objection to this. You can only ask a legislative question here, but that legislative question is more appropriate with the Members of this Chamber than with me in view of the amendment. Look, that was entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u140	But this is the essence of the law, isn't it? We have ever introduced that law and the no-more-than-other principle to prevent the consumer from paying too much. And now you're going to do it in lower regulation. That doesn't look like shit, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u141	Well, you can see this as an opportunity, depending on how fast you think you're going to get off the gas reference, and you can even talk to the Chamber about it before. But I can also imagine, because that was my original plan that we put this into regulation with another version of the Heat Act, the more forward-looking Heat Act. I can live with both. I have chosen Mrs Mulder's route, but I am asked what I think of Mr Van der Lee's route. I'll leave that judgment to the Chamber. I have chosen Mrs Mulder's route, but I do not see any major objections to it. You're both right, I'm just saying. Mr Kops introduces conspiracy theory into this debate. He says that it is our intention to keep the consumer quiet now, while we are about to lose the protection in order to piss everyone off. I must contradict that, of course, but with a compliment for conspiracy theory. I like conspiracy theories. He is right that the gas reference should naturally be reconsidered in the long term. A cost orientation is more obvious there. The fact that the abuse of monopoly power is the result of this law was a reasoning that I missed for a moment, but also without following the reasoning, I would like to say no to it. Then the answer to his question of acceptance. 74% want to decide on the gas connection themselves. Is that weird? Each individual household always wants to choose everything for itself and everything as cheap as possible. If you asked that question, I would have said: I would have preferred to choose it all myself. But we also have a way to go with each other. We need to get rid of the Groningen gas. That will not lead to cheer, small parties or great enthusiasm in every household. In all individual cases we also see the disadvantages of this. We must all live through this in a socially acceptable way. If you ask Dutch people whether we should take responsibility at some point and have to get rid of the gas in a controlled way, maybe 74% say: yes, I don't feel like it, but I see the point. I agree with both Mr Kops and Mrs Mulder that acceptance is important, but we do not do so by advertising our own laws. We do this by making it manageable and manageable and by telling residents and consumers at some point what is expected of them and what that means. Mrs Mulder is asking for alternatives to be investigated. I just made it clear that this is part of the search for the Heat Act 2.0. I suggest we bring the question about geothermals to the AO Mining tomorrow. Its specific question about the horticultural sector must be addressed at the agricultural table of the climate agreement. It is true that if gardeners not only generate energy but also CO2, they will do so in a different way. Now we are thinking in many ways about heat exchange and CO2 exchange with industry, for example, but I cannot answer that question in general here. I think I'm out of points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u142	Mrs Mulder has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u143	I have a few outstanding questions. I asked the Minister whether he could make it possible for people who use a joint boiler to receive information on the efficiency of that boiler and on the operation of that overall installation. That's more of an information right. I also have other questions, but let us do them first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u144	This is about the efficiency monitor and whether we can use the same definitions as the ACM. It's possible. That makes demands on suppliers' accounts. The Heat Decision may lay down detailed rules on the information to be included in the supplier's accounts at least in order to make this possible. In this way, the information in the supplier's accounts for the ACM becomes more useful for the efficiency monitor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u145	Those were two different points. I get the combination the minister makes, as long as it's clear to the tenant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u146	I've got another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u147	And then the differences in the heat grids and how you deal with them. Can the Minister comment on this or will he comment on it tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u148	No, one more question has been asked about the efficiency of the boiler and the operation of the plant. It has been asked whether the tenants will receive information about this at the annual service fee bill. The landlord should simply be able to justify the service costs he charges. The tenant is entitled to support the service costs. That justification shall also include information on the efficiency and functioning of the installation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u149	Clear. The questions are getting a little mixed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u150	Yeah, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u151	It's getting a little messy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u152	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u153	Will the Minister also deal tomorrow with the different types of heat networks and their efficiency? I have responded to this in my first term, but I have not yet received any response to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u154	No, but I don't think we can go so far as to talk about the efficiency of heat grids. What are returns from heat grids? There's heat coming in and heat coming out. There may also be losses, but the efficiency of a heat grid is not an understanding that I can so clearly define. A heat grid is in fact a market for heat, at all kinds of different temperatures. How do you make a return on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u155	Of course, we have the efficiency monitor of the ACM and there comes a certain picture of certain types of heat grids. There I'd like some more...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u156	That's about the installation behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u157	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u158	But then, in fact, Mrs Mulder asks me about the efficiency of the various forms of heat generation. That is also a very general question, which is also difficult to answer. The energy efficiency of a heat installation is one thing, but now I'm getting a little... Almost more relevant is the exegetic efficiency of an installation. Now I'm making it complicated. I think it is a slightly too general question to deal with the returns of different types of plant.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u159	May I make a suggestion? Because the minister says he has until 7:00 p.m., but that's a misunderstanding. He's got till 6:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u160	Oh!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u161	Given the time, perhaps it is an idea that Mrs Mulder will come back a little more focused on this point in her second term. My prediction, which I hope will not come true, is that we will have a longer second term. Is that a good proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u162	Given the time, I will. Then I'll probably get a more specific answer, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u163	This really was an invitation to extend the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u164	Exactly. Then I'll look at Mr. Moorlag. Do you have a short question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u165	Yes, Mr President, I missed part of the Minister's reply. He did answer the letter from Aedes. I would, moreover, appreciate the fact that the Chamber will receive a copy of that letter, so that we also know exactly how the law has been interpreted by you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u166	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u167	I'm also worried about the House Union. As far as I am concerned, you do not have to go into this in detail, but if you promise to involve the House Union in the next version of the law, I would appreciate it very much. 'Cause that's where there are worries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u168	I'm gonna think about that. Is it also okay if I say that I take the arguments of the House Union into the next law in this particular case? 'Cause I don't know who's gonna have to join a law trail like that. It gets complicated at some point. The House Union has separated a piece and there is an argument in it. Honestly, I don't remember that part. Let me assure you that I will at least take that argument with me. Is that how we do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u169	I think the House Union is an important stakeholder when it comes to support. I would therefore ask the Minister to pay particular attention to this. So I understand we're getting that letter from Aedes. Did I hear you say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u170	Yeah, I'll make sure of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u171	And the Minister now states that the House Union's argument is involved. So that seems like an answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u172	The interpretation of the House Union is involved. Yeah, that's my promise. Then that was my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u173	I thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-02-14-tweedekamer-8.u174	This brings us to the end of the government's first term. The much discussed second term will be scheduled at a later date. Maybe next week, but that's what the schedule shows. Thank you very much!
