ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u1	The next item is the amendment of the Youth Act and the Social Support Act 2015 and the Health Insurance Act to maintain the possibility of requiring municipalities to cooperate in exceptional cases and to reduce implementation costs, 34857. There have been five speakers. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP. Strictly speaking, all Members have unlimited speaking time, but they do not win the sympathy prize. But Mr Hijink has signed up for ten minutes, so that's gonna be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u2	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What we all want here is that care and support for our children, our young people, the elderly and all the others who need it are in order. But what we see, especially when we look at youth care and municipal care and support, is that there is still a lot to improve. We have recently discussed the Youth Act here. Since 2015, the Youth Act has been a task for the municipality. Three years later, unfortunately, it turns out that in many places care for our youth is not good for each other now. There are large deficits and municipalities need to give more care, while they have had to turn in a lot of budget. In Noord-Holland we are now seeing the sad consequences of the procurement policy in youth care. Young people who now reside at Transferium in Heerhugowaard will in future have to move to locations that do not yet exist, with therapists they do not know yet. This sounds like a very bad plan in everything, but the tender is right, and so it can go on. The SP believes that this can no longer be done in this way. We have therefore tabled an amendment to this law to take out the calls for tenders from the Youth Act, so that care is organised on the basis of cooperation and quality, rather than on competition and on price. In recent weeks, reports have been published about regions where cooperation has been completely shattered, for example because of the deficits in the youth care budgets and other municipalities that do not want to pay for the deficits, or because smaller partnerships are being chosen. Now the Minister wants to be able to enforce cooperation between municipalities by means of this law. But are these the examples we have seen, the so-called extreme cases he means? How exactly can the government impose or enforce cooperation from above if it can be so difficult from the bottom up? How successful will such compulsory cooperation be? Is the signal that cooperation regions are falling apart a reason to draw up rules in general governance measures? Is the Minister already in consultation with these regions? When it comes to highly specialised care, it is still unclear in which regions coordination is not yet available or insufficient. Is there any insight into that? Otherwise, we expect that insight to come very quickly from the Minister and from the Chamber. Of this pressured cooperation, many can suffer: young people who need specialist care, but also the providers themselves. In addition, cooperation is important to curb waiting times and waiting lists. However, I am not convinced that a compulsory cooperation between the parties where it was previously collapsed is going to work. I wonder if the Minister can give me this belief. Does the Minister see the possibility that the obligation to cooperate can also be counterproductive? This is because of the emphasis on large and efficient, while we want to get close and small-scale when it comes to youth care. How does the cooperation imposed relate to the position of city council members? They have often indicated that they have very little control over the organisation of youth care, because policies are partly determined in the region. Can the Minister comment on how council members should deal with this gap? It is not clear to me when the Minister has reached the border to engage in compulsory cooperation. Whose border must have been reached exactly? Is that the border that the minister draws, or is that that of the municipality or of all the municipalities in a partnership? Who decides that the cooperation is going badly and that action is needed? Mr. Chairman. The proposed changes we are talking about today are a bit of a response to two of the biggest problems that are currently facing: the high administrative burden faced by youth care providers or Wmo, and the problems of cooperation within regions. Lower administrative burdens give providers much more time to actually deliver care, and it significantly increases the job satisfaction for the people working there. Providers of care and support should be able to use their time for what they have been created: providing care. So we should not want them to spend half their time registering, writing down and administering rather than providing care or support. What is striking is that more and more municipalities choose to buy youth care because that's what it's called on the market based on results. So instead of being paid per hour worked, they are paid for a result achieved, for example if a child's behaviour improves or if a child goes back to school when it didn't go before. What does the Minister think of this development? Does he recognise that incentive payment can be very dangerous in youth care, for example because young people who have a high chance of little progress, may not be able to get here anymore, that we are going to get cherrypicking? That risk is considerable if we choose incentive payment. And will municipalities, especially when they have to deal with large budget deficits, not be more likely to fall for the provider who promises the fastest treatment at the lowest price? Don't they take any risks? I would ask the Minister to comment on this point. In other municipalities, it is precisely timewriting that is chosen. They demand an hour's registration for youth protection and youth aid. We were just discussing the deletion of the five-minute registration in community nursing. The Minister has rightly received the compliments that we have now abolished it for the umpteenth time. Hopefully it will be abolished now. At the same time, it is very strange to see that timewriting is being re-established in youth care and that youth workers are being asked to account for their hours and minutes to municipalities and regions. I wonder if the Minister thinks that this is a good development. I'd like a response. Since decentralisation, each municipality has invented its own wheel. Each municipality thinks for itself what it wants to know from the providers. This often results in a disaster for the providers who deal with several, sometimes dozens of municipalities: ten municipalities with ten different ways to record a date; ten municipalities with their own time or system to request data. I myself have experienced in conversations that this comes to the level of the font in which pieces are to be delivered to a municipality. There are examples of municipalities that request staff schedules in order to check the hours worked. I think that's a form of accountability that's completely out of control. I hope the Minister agrees with me. No one wants this, but the question is whether this proposal is really going to change that. We can see that municipalities are currently building up a Christmas tree of different contracts and invitations to tender. As far as the SP is concerned, that is really undesirable. When I read the bill, do I understand correctly that a number of financing models are being established, but that the municipality still has the choice between different models? Does this mean that providers in different municipalities still face different financing models? Are we still at risk of having to account for the care of one child at an hourly rate within one organisation, while caring for another child, for example, has to be justified on the basis of incentive payment or a fixed price? Is it a workable way for one healthcare provider in different municipalities and different regions to face different forms of accountability? That's not really a way to do it, is it? I'd like to hear if the Minister agrees with the SP. Mr. Chairman. How can the Minister, who, as an alderman, was so upset about the calls for tenders, now agree that we still have invitations to tender? Will the Minister act when he sees that municipalities make demands, such as incentive payment or time writing, which do not match the nature of the work that we see in youth care and the Wmo? Why not opt for one fair, social and effective system if we really want to make a difference and reduce the administrative burden? Mr. Chairman. The SP wonders why the rules on the method of financing and administrative processes laid down in the ministerial regulation are not first presented to Parliament. Is the Minister prepared to do so after all? The SP has an amendment in place on this point, but it may not be necessary if the Minister can promise that this will happen. We believe it is important for Parliament to retain control over the various implementations of the financing models that may be used by the municipalities in contracting or subsidising tasks within the Wmo or the Youth Act. In this way we hope to prevent a proliferation and we can control the use of the best working system. I look forward to the Minister's response to this amendment. Is he at least prepared to make the amendment superfluous by simply adopting this proposal? Finally, Mr President. As far as the SP is concerned, one more step is needed to prevent this law from creating more administrative burdens, because that risk is still present. If the Minister is going to lay down rules on accountability, funding and the exchange of information, then that is a very good thing. We really think that this is a very good proposal, but if we do not agree at the same time that it will remain with these rules, then healthcare providers will soon have to deal with both the rules of the minister and any additional requirements of municipalities and regions. Is it true that the current text leaves room for municipalities and regions to impose additional accountability requirements on top of the Minister's rules? My question to the Minister is whether he thinks that is logical and desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u4	There is an interruption by Mr Peters of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u5	Mr Hijink, you said quite clearly, of course, that you actually want agreements to be made, so that the same things are asked in the same way within a region. You are concerned that a certain municipality will in turn come up with additional requirements. I understand. But imagine that you are alderman within a congregation and you are dissatisfied with the functioning of one particular institution; there are great concerns about that. In that case, do you think it should be possible to ask more specific questions to that institution?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u6	I believe that we need to establish a general set of accountability requirements, exactly as the Minister's proposal does. We wholeheartedly support that. We also leave room in our amendment for us to find at AMvB that in specific cases, for example, where there are suspicions of very gross negligence and such like, an additional request for information is necessary and desirable, but we would like to define it. If we do not, we will soon have a list of accountability requirements proposed by the Minister, on which there is agreement and which we all obviously consider to be good, smart and efficient and which will lead to a low burden on healthcare providers, and then every municipality will, for good reasons and undoubtedly always formulate all kinds of additional, new requirements. I would find that undesirable, because then we will have two sets of demands: the demands of the minister we keep national and carry out nationwide and, on top of that, all the responsibility that is now being asked for by each municipality, but which is then on top of the other demands. That means that we have double responsibility and, with this law, we are going to create more bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u7	I want to clear this up a little bit more. So you agree that what is here is a step forward, because at least we are going to ensure that the same things are asked in the same way within a region. And you agree with me that in certain cases, at least in the event of a suspicion of a malfunctioning institution, it should be possible to ask additional questions. Can you also imagine that there are special circumstances within a region or, for example, within a neighbourhood, which would make you want to ask other questions in a particular area? Because I understand what your mind wants. You're just saying, I don't want a proliferation of rules on top of the existing rules. But if you say you're gonna ban it, I'm afraid you're gonna ban things that you actually want to keep.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u8	I think it's two different things. The law lays down requirements for accountability and the exchange of information. That is what we are saying: let us make one package of it, so that it is clear to all providers and to the municipalities that that is the way to justify it. If an alderman picks up the phone, sends an e-mail or, in any other way, contacts a healthcare provider to ask for something, then I find that to be different from setting up a new set of accountability requirements and putting them on top of the requirements that we are just agreeing on here. I think that's two different things. Of course, there will always be contact between the alderman and an institution. You could even say: in specific cases, if there are suspicions or if there could be a need for an additional request for information for other reasons, this can also be arranged per AMvB. We also offer this possibility in the amendment. But I want to prevent us from adding a new layer of paper to all the paper that is already there. That's a risk we'll take.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u9	Very briefly, in conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u10	In conclusion. I understand what you want, but I'm afraid what you're doing is destroying something you're actually trying to preserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u11	I do not understand them very well, because I think we agree that we want to standardise the accountability requirements as they are now. Now there is a total proliferation, a Christmas tree of different requirements that municipalities and regions impose on healthcare providers. It is very good that we draw one line in that, but then you have to cut off the other route. If you don't, then those accountability requirements pile up again piece by piece. That's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u12	Are you going to continue, or are you coming to a conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u13	Yeah, pretty much. I asked the Minister whether it was true that I had the debate just now with Mr Peters..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We have tabled an amendment to prevent this double accountability. If rules have been laid down by the Minister on accountability, financing and data exchange, then we should not add another layer to that. The rules as stated should comply with what we all consider reasonable and effective. Then, in exceptional cases, it may be necessary to do some extra. That is possible, and the amendment leaves room for that, but I am very curious to see how the Minister will respond to this amendment and whether he is prepared to accept it. Otherwise we will face a difficult dilemma, namely whether we can support this law because there is a risk of more accountability. That's what we're trying to avoid tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u14	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Exactly 1.440 days ago, the Youth Act and the Wmo came into force. Since 1 January 2015, municipalities have been responsible for young people, the elderly and people with disabilities. Of course, business isn't quite going well yet. We saw this not long ago in a report by the Ombudsman: caring for citizens. For example, there is still a lot of work to be done when it comes to an integrated view of people's support. People sometimes get lost in the system and sometimes can't find access. I would also like to express my appreciation today for how the municipalities have taken up their task. I see drivers, officials and council members all over the country who have been working hard since 2015 and, of course, before that, to ensure that people are given the right care and support, who ensure that someone is looked at and that what he or she needs to be able to participate in society is determined, regardless of whether it is a wheelchair, a meal or a family coach. Because we often talk in this house about where the municipalities are still lacking, I also attach great importance to having said this once. The decentralisations have been a huge job, a mega operation. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing an amendment to the Youth Act and the Wmo. It's an important change. This makes it possible for a municipality to be obliged to cooperate in an exceptional situation. With this law, we are taking a good step towards a health system with fewer forms and more uniformity. Personally, on behalf of my party, I think that is the most important part of this law: the reduction of the regulatory burden. I am therefore positive about this law, but I still have a number of questions. Mr. Chairman. In order to carry out a number of tasks under the Youth Act and the Wmo, it is necessary for the municipalities to cooperate with each other. Think of the specialised youth aid, youth rehabilitation and social care. By working together we ensure that knowledge and expertise are increased, but more importantly: by working together we ensure that specialist and often scarce help is available throughout the Netherlands. Luckily, this cooperation is gaining ground in more and more regions. However, in the event that this does not happen, a delegation basis was included until 1 January 2018. In extreme cases, municipalities could be forced to cooperate. With the present legislative proposal, this delegation base is permanently incorporated into both the Wmo and the Youth Act. I wonder how the Minister sees that. If a municipality on its own does not want to cooperate with the purchase and guarantee of a particular type of care and support, it may have its reasons for doing so. If cooperation is not working on a voluntary basis, why should cooperation be successful if you are going to put the stick behind the door? I would also like to hear from the Minister on the basis of what criteria he is going to determine when this cooperation is or is not good. Will it only look at the municipality that does not want to cooperate, or will the minister look at the other municipalities in the cooperation? For example, how does he assess whether the requirements imposed by other municipalities for cooperation are not disproportionate? And what role does the provider play in this? I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u16	I understand Mrs Bergkamp's questions very well. I therefore wonder whether she agrees with GroenLinks that it is important to have a thorough problem analysis of the reasons why this cooperation sometimes does not come about. For it may also be that additional administrative pressure is not the solution to the problems. But this law is rather drastic in the autonomy of municipalities. So it is extremely important that we know what problems are actually there, and then we see what solutions are desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u17	I get that. I also found that in the legal process and in the documents we have read that did not become entirely concrete. Now I understand that it has never been used, but the Minister sees it as a so-called stick behind the door in order to be able to use it if necessary. But if this law makes it, I think it's very important that we get a good analysis before that stick gets deployed. To be honest, I'd like to know a little bit more. Therefore, through you, President, and through Mrs Ellemeet's interruption, I would like to ask the Minister what situations the Minister was thinking: I wish I could have intervened on the basis of that delegation basis and that general measure of governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u18	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u19	Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, such a change of law is not on its own. I am therefore pleased to read that there is also the so-called accompanying policy. The agreements between the healthcare providers and the VNG on collective clientship are a good example of this. Transparency about waiting times is also very important here. In this context, I do wonder why a motion I tabled two years ago with former colleague Kooiman on the so-called transparency of the waiting lists in youth care was dissuaded by the cabinet. There's a new cabinet now. I am very curious to see what this minister thinks about getting much more transparency about waiting times in youth aid. Mr. Chairman. Under the current Youth Act, there are several measures to ensure that municipalities can organise an adequate supply of youth assistance. For example, there is the so-called Intervention ladder Inter-Governmental Supervision Youth Act. After four steps, this Minister and the Minister of Justice may, in exceptional cases, take all necessary concrete measures on behalf and at the expense of the municipality to ensure an adequate supply of youth assistance, for example by concluding an agreement with a youth aid provider. I have the following questions for the Minister. How many times has this Intervention ladder been deployed in recent years, and what steps and results has that led to? And can the Minister also tell us what the difference is between the possibility of using this delegation base later on and using the Intervention ladder? Doesn't that make this delegation base unnecessary? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the cooperation delegation basis. The Council of State advises to make this basis of delegation temporary. The fact that the necessary cooperation has not yet been fully achieved three years after the entry into force of the laws does not mean that a permanent basis for delegation is needed in a decentralised system. However, this Minister considers this to be an important stick behind the door. I understand that the stick is there, because it is not crystallized yet, but I do have difficulty with the permanent character of the stick. That is why I tabled an amendment, together with Mr Van der Staaij, but I would like to withdraw it. It is a question of the amendment to item No. 12 under 34857. I would like to table a motion for this later, because I realise that there are also some risks of deleting this and also because I understand that the UNG actually likes this measure. I didn't really expect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u20	The Bergkamp/Van der Staaij amendment (Doc. 12) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u21	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, in this house we talk too often about the administrative burden. I repeat that a health care professional must, above all, provide a great deal of care and fill out as few forms as possible. That is why I was always a great supporter of the so-called 'i-Social Domain', because on the one hand the municipalities can provide tailor-made services to clients for this purpose, we have decentralised........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I am therefore pleased that the possibility is being created for this, because any euro that cannot be spent on care and that is spent on administration is, of course, a mortal sin. There are too many healthcare providers who are dealing with several municipalities and who now really need to have a permanent administrative employee to meet them at all. I think that's a real shame. I also ask the Minister how he has carried out my two motions on the regulatory burden for the small healthcare providers and also thezzp'ers. I also asked at the time whether there could be a slightly lighter regime. How are we gonna handle that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u22	Just a minute. There is an interruption for you from Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u23	I have just spoken about the risk of double accountability, even if this law makes it. I mean that we are getting the national requirements that we are now agreeing on and that we are going to get additional demands from municipalities on top of that. I mentioned the example of a municipality requesting the duty schedules. The SP thinks we should make that impossible. How's D66 in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u24	Looking at the amendment, I cannot quite make that translation. So I don't think that translation is quite right for the story. Of course, we are always open to tackling the regulatory burden. I think you are referring to your amendment to contract all certified suppliers. Oh, it's another amendment. Perhaps you could explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u25	Yes, I can explain that. I am referring to the amendment we tabled and the discussion I had with Mr Peters just now. The aim of this is that, in addition to the accountability requirements that we are now going to agree on nationally by AMvB, we force municipalities not to be able to impose any additional requirements on them, because they will give you a form of double accountability. Thanks to this law, we are going to organise more bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u26	Thank you for this explanation. To be honest, I agree with Mr Peters' response to this. I don't think that's gonna happen. I think it is a good thing that, if the law is adopted, we may have the opportunity, through a general measure of governance, to make demands, but I really do see this as a slightly different issue from the examples you put forward. To be honest, I don't see that risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u27	In conclusion, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u28	The problem is real, isn't it? Youth care providers themselves also indicate that this risk exists. They now experience a variety of different accountability requirements from municipalities. Now we're gonna streamline that from here. That is good, but of course there is no guarantee, because for all good reasons every municipality will see the need to ask for additional extras in addition to the national requirements. So you'll still get double responsibility. In my opinion, we should stop doing so in good time, because otherwise we are going to get a lot more bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u29	Like I said, I don't see that. I think we are going to take a significant step with this law to standardise that back with the so-called i-Social Domain much more. The Minister will also be given much more opportunity to do so. So I really see this as a positive step towards reducing regulatory pressure. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. With regard to the different versions of the so-called i-Social Domain, I do wonder what, looking at the municipalities, is the current state of affairs. Many municipalities participate, but some do not. What are the reasons for this and what happens when this law is passed? Then what happens in the process? I think it is important to know that, because, as I have just said in an interruption, we expect that regulatory pressure to go down. Mr. Chairman. Also in the Wlz and the Health Insurance Act, providers have to deal with multiple parties to regulate their secondary processes. After all, you have different healthcare offices and different health insurance companies. Here too, we may be able to win a lot with more standardisation, precisely in order to reduce the implementation burden. Would a legal standardisation in the Wlz and the Health Insurance Act also be possible? I'm asking you very carefully. I know that, looking at the health insurance companies, it's always a fierce subject, but if we take this step to the municipalities, it would be so nice to bring the health insurance companies and the health offices with us. I'd like a response. As long as we're getting more uniform, I'd also like to ask the Minister to look at the pgb. The pgb is just as different in the different laws. Wouldn't it be nice to standardize that as well? Mr President, I will conclude. Everyone in the Netherlands must be assured of good care and support, regardless of the municipality in which someone lives and whatever specialist assistance someone needs. Of course, I have just asked a number of questions and made comments, but I certainly see the added value of this law. I look forward to the answer. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u30	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Peters of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago, I was doing an internship in the financial administration of a major institution for youth care. Someone showed me proudly how he had put the figures for the accountability that several congregations asked of him in a schedule. It turned out to be a placemat, printed in A3 format and double-sided. I was impressed. When it turned out that he had five of these kind of placemats ready to go through, my admiration turned a bit into pity. Fortunately, the good man indicated that he didn't have to do this monk's work on his own. Since decentralisation, he had taken on four additional powers to meet all the requirements. Mr. Chairman. Whoever buys care also wants to know that his money is well spent. Municipal councils would like to be kept informed. Of course, that's the way it should be, and every municipality wants to know about the same things. But right now they're all asking in their own way, with their own systems and their own formats; it's been mentioned before. Of course, this is not for providers who work for several municipalities. They're going crazy with all this extra administrative burden. Regional cooperation is therefore very important if we are to be a little more respectable with suppliers. Fortunately, the current legislative proposal can force municipalities to ask for the same things in the same way. In any case, thank you on behalf of the administration of the youth care institution where I was visiting. Mr. Chairman. For a few years, municipalities have been responsible for purchasing care for our youth. That's kind of a complicated process. Purchasing, contract management and accountability cost energy and time, and you need to know about it. So it's not so strange that municipalities work together in regions, because that just saves a lot of money. And if you take care of it a little handsomely, you also have more than enough influence locally. Regional cooperation is also important in order to spread the financial risks a little. It may be that a small municipality suddenly faces a client who needs very expensive, specialized care, or a very large family with a lot of problems living in the municipality. People need to be helped, but without regional solidarity I think it should be financial too, but that is not what we are talking about here. Mr. Chairman. It is good that municipalities and regions work together. In the coalition agreement, there is no reason why the Minister should be able to enforce cooperation if necessary. The present bill ensures that that is possible. The CDA is naturally satisfied with this, because it seems that the Minister should also use his powers. Mr. Chairman. We have said and written a few things about the financial shortage in municipalities. How big it is is not exactly clear where it comes from, and it is also not certain whether it can be covered by the surpluses that have been in other posts in the social domain in recent years. But the fact that many municipalities experience a shortage for youth care is clear. It is not surprising that aldermen and municipal councils want to have more control over their finances. I read in the newspaper that some of them try to do so by taking up the purchase independently and stepping out of a partnership. That may be understandable from that point of view, but it is also unwise. I would like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. During the legislative consultation, I stressed the importance of stable partnerships. First of all, because it's cheaper. Who wants more overhead, more administration and more accountability? Secondly, because financial solidarity, but at least solidarity, is very important within the regions, especially for the smaller municipalities, as I have just said. And thirdly because providers really go crazy from so many different types of accountability to so many different types of municipalities. There are problems, but as far as I am concerned, the solution lies in more than less cooperation. Mr. Chairman. In an earlier debate, the Minister indicated that he would not believe that partnerships would fall apart, but he would keep his finger on the pulse. I am at least keeping the Minister's word from my place. Mr. Chairman. Today there is a legislative proposal before us that regulates exactly what is in the coalition agreement. We are therefore very pleased with that. I have one more question for the Minister: will the Minister actually use his new powers?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u32	I wonder what the CDA, Mr Peters, is looking at a dilemma that I think we all have, namely the role of city council members. Since decentralisation, they have been dealing with youth care policy, but at the same time we are making a law here on an opportunity for the minister to intervene and to force municipalities to cooperate. That's rubbing. I wonder what the CDA's got in there. How does the CDA view the role of the city council members and the responsibility they have for determining whether or not they want to cooperate, whether or not they want to go into business with a particular provider, and the role the minister has in enforcing that kind of cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u33	The Minister. Sorry, Mr. Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u34	That is a matter of time, Madam President. "It had a hair," I hear the minister say. Mr. Hijink, I understand your question. I'll put him a little in the light of the discussion we just had on this side, in which you said you want to impose even more from above. You now seem to opt for the emphasis on the freedom of the individual city council member. In my opinion, it is possible to organise the purchase as much as possible through local customization, to do this well and to make good arrangements. You can also co-operate regionally and buy through the region. It's all possible. We all strive for as little administrative burden as possible. It would be nice to harmonise in that. That's what we can agree on here. The same applies to cooperation within the regions. It's just necessary. We don't want any more overhead, even more different ways of accountability. This gives the Minister a handle to intervene where necessary. I understand that there's a place where it rubs when you just want to organize it 100 percent locally. You have just said that specifically. That's what it does.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u35	I am not trying to pin Mr Peters on this point either. I think it's a problem we're all dealing with. You just want city council members to have control over their municipality's policies. But we hear from our own council members and others that they are losing that grip, precisely because it is now increasingly organised in a regional context. That's a dilemma I'm struggling with. I wonder how we can meet them. Let me ask you that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u36	I think I made it clear in my first term that if you manage that collaboration a little handsomely, you can do a lot of customization locally. You are not forced to do the same in Amersfoort as in Nijkerk when you agree standards for how to buy, how to administer and how to account. It's all possible. Local customization is very easy to organize and is also very easy to control via a city council and an alderman. So I don't see that problem at all. The only problem I do see is actually the exact opposite of what you just said, I think. I think it should be possible, in the case of customization, to ask additional questions besides that set of accountability that we have just standardized, but not just, not out of the blue and not to stack. I think that I, more than you perhaps, can accommodate those city councils.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u37	Very briefly, in conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u38	We do not agree on that last point, but on the other hand, I think that you need to find some kind of middle ground, where you organise the accountability processes and bureaucracy nationwide, with national guidelines, but at the same time you also know how to respect the position of the council members when it comes to the organisation of youth care. That remains a very complicated dilemma, but I think we are fairly close together in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u39	I am glad that Mr Hijink concludes that. I'll share that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u40	Thank you. Then I look at Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks for her contribution in first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u41	Thank you, Mr President. It's almost 11:45 p.m., Tuesday night, a week and a half before Christmas and we're going to talk about delegation bases. If you don't pay attention, you think, "What are we doing here?" But if you look a little further and study the lyrics well, it is not really about technical matters at all, but about very important matters. It is about the complaints we get from the healthcare sector on a wide range of implementation burdens and administrative burdens. There is a broad desire to work much more together instead of competing with each other and to make real use of the autonomy we have given the municipalities in decentralisation. In fact, therefore, it is not a technical debate at all and it is quite interesting to have it even at this time. So I'm gonna do my best, Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal that we are discussing tonight contains two major changes, starting with the reduction of implementation costs. GroenLinks supports this part of the legislative proposal wholeheartedly, of course. Caregivers should be able to deal with care and not with administration or accountability. This bill is a step in the right direction. However, my group believes that much greater steps can be taken to reduce the burden of accountability, in particular on procurement in the WMO and the Youth Act. Mr Hijink has already mentioned this. That is why GroenLinks, together with the SP, has submitted an initiative law to delete the mandatory tender. Does the Minister agree with GroenLinks that many more steps need to be taken to reduce all these implementation burdens as much as possible? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the provision by which the Minister for Regional Cooperation can enforce. According to the Minister, it is necessary to make this competence permanent, as there is no stable system of strong cooperation. The Council of State is critical of this and rightly points out that the lack of cooperation three years after the introduction of the new system does not mean that this permanent basis of delegation is also necessary. Don't get me wrong. My group also sees the need to improve cooperation between municipalities, but it is too premature for us to conclude that the Minister should be given a permanent power to enforce the cooperation that is not yet in place. I'd like to reverse the Minister's reasoning. For the past three years this competence has already existed and it has been available to him. Thus, although it was already possible to exert administrative pressure, it does not seem to have led to the desired effects. What is the Minister's view of this? Do municipalities not want to work together, or can they not because it is difficult, for example, to buy together specialised youth care? And how many times has the Minister used this power? Mr. Chairman. My colleague Lisa Westerveld has pointed out many times to the Minister the consequences of a lack of cooperation on the continuity of high-specialist youth aid. It concerns a limited group of children from different municipalities, but the children with the most complex problems. They benefit from a stable situation. Uncertainty about the future is extra risky for these children. But we see examples that there is not good cooperation. The Minister's defence was often that he could not do much about this because the municipalities were responsible for the implementation of the Youth Act. That raises a number of questions for my group, because when will the Minister intervene? Did he use this power? There were times when it didn't go well. Did the Minister say, "I have that authority, pull it off the shelf and put it in?" If so, how many times has he done that and what has it done? And will this provision change or improve in the future? Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance lacks a sound analysis of the causes of the lack of cooperation. I had a brief debate on this with Mrs Bergkamp. The annual report of the Youth Transition Authority shows that the necessary regional cooperation has come under pressure as a result of a lack of mutual solidarity to deal with financial deficits. This is something that the proposal ignores rather quickly. My question to the Minister is: does he share this analysis? Can he imagine that the lack of cooperation may not be due to a lack of administrative resources but to a lack of financial resources? Is that not the cause of the problems and should we not come to another solution? Is that why a consultation on this part was not in place because it did not take place? My group is convinced that it is important to direct things at national level, but it must be clear what kind of problem we are looking for. This sharp problem analysis now seems to be missing when it comes to the lack of cooperation between municipalities. Mr. Chairman. For this reason, we feel it is premature to grant the Minister a permanent power to enforce this cooperation. My group is in favour of extending the Minister's temporary competence, which will have to be accompanied by an assessment of the problems. My group has also tabled an amendment to that effect, together with the SGP. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u42	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Tielen from the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Parents of children with problems are worried. Can my child get the help that is needed or is there perhaps a far too long waiting list? Is help even getting around here, or do I have to go to the other side of the country later? All legitimate questions if you are already worried about your child and you also read in the newspaper and hear on TV about waiting lists and too tight budgets. As a mother I can very well get involved in these concerns, but fortunately I also hear very good experiences with youth help from parents, professionals and young people. There are many examples of youth aid that are so much better than it was. Because we come from a time when youth aid was really confusing, with dozens of aid workers working with a child and no one who seemed to bear the responsibility. The decentralisation of youth aid has contributed to the foundations for much better youth assistance, closer to the family with integrated solutions and aimed at help that is better suited to the family's demand. Are you okay? No. Is that why you're taking the case back? No, but it is the reason to tackle and solve the problems that exist. The only way to take away these legitimate concerns from parents is by ensuring that when children need help, they can also get that help, thanks to all those involved and expert professionals who do their best every day to offer it. But those people do need us, not by being scared off by horror stories and shouting that everything has to go back to the old days and not by leaning back because we have already come up with a new system. No, by taking all the concerns and complaints seriously and solving the problems that exist. That is why I am pleased that today we are talking about a law, technically perhaps but perhaps not, which does exactly that, namely contributing to a solution. Mr. Chairman. Today's legislative amendment concerns cooperation between municipalities and the reduction of administrative burdens. Honestly, at the first reading of this proposal, I thought: should this be done again, additional rules? As a liberal, I am not necessarily enthusiastic about this, especially if rules are probably not going to be used in practice when you are talking, for example, about the delegation base that has been in force for three years. What are we supposed to do with that? But I am convinced that with this change of law we are taking a step forward towards better appropriate aid. First of all, because the administrative burden can be reduced. If there's anything that comes up in every conversation I have with parents, professionals, policy makers or care organizations, it's that administrative burden. The standards developed in recent years are good and are being used in more and more places, but unfortunately not everywhere. While precisely by reducing administrative burdens professionals have more time left for really arranging help, I do have a few more questions. In replying to our questions in writing, the Minister states that all municipalities use the standards but not all consistently. That sounds reasonable, but what does that mean in concrete terms? In his view, when do municipalities use the existing standards consistently and on the basis of what figures or results will the Minister decide whether or not to lay down detailed rules for this use? How can we ensure that professionals and organisations actually experience that they can spend more time putting children at the centre instead of their administrative burden? I would like the Minister to have a more concrete objective. We want all contracts and agreements between municipalities, regions and healthcare providers to be based on these models by the end of next year. Can the Minister undertake to do so? I expected Mr Hijink to come forward now for an interruption, but that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u44	We're not gonna provoke!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u45	No, I'm not. In addition, this bill is intended to enforce cooperation. As a liberal, I am not necessarily pleased with this, but I have seen that the existence of this possibility is good, because it gives concrete direction to the municipalities concerned by means of an agreement-oriented consultation, as it is called, and the possibility of coercion. The Minister states that the 42 regions are now working fairly well together, but he sees movements getting worse. That raises the next question. Could the Minister give a brief analysis of this deterioration? Is it mainly about financial agreements or does other things play a role, for example a big difference in care demand between different municipalities or differences in municipal social cards? The VVD believes it is important for municipalities to learn from each other to ensure that their local offerings are more and more suited to the needs and wishes of residents. To what extent does this bill contribute to this? Can the Minister state what his expectations are of that? And to what extent can municipalities ultimately choose which other municipalities and regions they want to cooperate with? We hear from conversations with administrators and healthcare providers in the country that some municipalities need to join another region for policy and sometimes practical reasons. To what extent will that possibility remain? I'd like a response. Then I would also like to use this debate to hear what is happening now with another important problem: the waiting lists. We have seen actions and deadlines on this subject in several of the Minister's action programmes. And that shows that the Minister considers this relevant. Good, because a lot of people think this is relevant. But that is not enough for parents and young people. That is why I ask the Minister whether and how he can make it clear that the actions he has coordinated and deployed actually lead to a reduction in waiting lists. Do all 42 regions have an expert team available? Are there regions where waiting lists are already falling due to better coordination and cooperation? And does the minister actually get signals that things are improving in the country? The VVD considers it important that not only on paper but also in practice people can work with it. Mr. Chairman. Finally. The VVD considers it important that people can count on appropriate help and support when they are needed. This bill can remove obstacles. We can further improve the quality of the so-called social domain. As far as my group is concerned, it is also intended to remove some of the current unrest, so that the best-suited help for parents and their children is taken one step closer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u46	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office. A lot of questions have been asked, so the minister gets 15 minutes. We'll continue at 0.10 a.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u47	I would like to give the Minister the floor for his answer in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u48	Mr. Chairman. Tuesday night, 12:15 p.m., and it's a glorious law. At the same time, we must be honest about what this law does and does not do. Yes, this law reduces the administrative burden on providers. Less time spent on paper is more time spent on care. That's important. Yes, this law helps to achieve regional cooperation, and regional cooperation is necessary for the proper implementation of youth care. That's important. But this is not the only answer or the panacea for reducing administrative burdens and achieving regional cooperation. Of course, it takes a lot more than just this bill. But this bill is going to help us. With this sobriety, I should also like to answer all the questions that have been asked. That's a lot of questions. I know the President a little bit and I think she is going to urge me quite quickly to do it all even more compressed if I am really going to answer all the questions one by one. So I'm gonna see what I can put together. I'd like to say a few introductory sentences. After that, I want to do a block of administrative burdens, so the part of the legislative proposal is administrative burdens. The second block will be regional cooperation. The third block is going to be my favorite subject. In the fourth block I would like to comment on a number of casuistic elements, especially Parlan, Kop van Noord-Holland, because it has been discussed. Then I have a block of other questions that have been asked. Maybe a couple of comments first. I told you, this bill isn't the only answer or the last answer. It is not a panacea in the area of administrative burdens or regional cooperation, but it is important. A number of your groups, in particular Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Ellemeet, have pointed out that this is, of course, an intervention in a decentralised system; you must have a good reason for doing so. That is also what the Council of State said. I think we have that good reason. What we are monitoring both in terms of administrative burden and in terms of regional cooperation in this legislative proposal is that there is no unnecessary avoidable administrative burden that really has nothing to do with the content of care and is all about secondary processes. Then it is about payments, about data sharing to get payments, about message starting care, that type of technical questions. If you don't organise that, if you don't make agreements about it, it will lead to a lot of unintended, unwanted administrative burdens, and so we need to be more precise about that than we have been in the past. Is that what I'm gonna do with autonomy? No. By the way, I do not think autonomy can ever be an end in itself. No one's making the laws of their own. The space we want to give municipalities has a substantive reason. We believe that municipalities close to home and close to all the other parts of the social domain can come to choices that are much more interesting than we could see from here. That was the reason for the decentralisation. We leave that reason completely intact. This is about avoidable administrative burdens that have arisen unintentionally or unintentionally. Why is intervention legitimate in the area of regional cooperation? I am going to say more about this later, also in relation to what you have said about it and the amendments that have been tabled. But why is that legitized? Because it's necessary. In order to be able to implement this Youth Act properly, and therefore for me, too, the system of responsibility that you regularly address me to, and rightly so, requires regions to cooperate with each other. In fact, without this provision, I do not have sufficient instruments in my hands to fulfil that system responsibility, if necessary. That is the argument and that is the justification for intervening in a decentralised system. Mr President, this is a start. Now I'd like to stop by the cubes. First, reducing the administrative burden in the social domain and the regulatory burden. I told you, it's not the only answer, because we have more to do than just this. We have regions, for example, to work with professionals. Next week, I will have administrative consultation again, including with the VNG, to really take a number of extra steps in that regard. We have talked a lot here in this Chamber about reducing administrative burdens. We are also deleting the rules that I can delete myself. What we have to enforce through administrative consultation, we do along that road. Take the five-minute registration, for example in the district nursing service. But in the social domain, where municipalities are the commissioning party, that is of course much more complicated. The government is a little more remote. And at the same time, I hear you hear nothing but stories about increasing the administrative burden on work visits. And that is not only in the administrative department where Mr Peters has been and where the placemats flew him. You can also see that these administrative burdens are beginning to get deep into implementation practice, especially among professionals. Then it's about signals of timewriting, for example. I get them, too, and there's really no need. I'll get back to you on that. In short, we have more to do there. We must do this in the regions. We also need to work with scrapings there. That's not happening yet, and it has to be. I would like to meet with municipalities and suppliers. So we are also going to make administrative arrangements to intensify this. That's very important. The second, which is also very important, is that, in addition to what is provided for in this legislative proposal, there should also be work on, for example, model clauses for contracts. We actually do that from the chain management program i-Social Domain. That is actually a programme from VNG in which we participate and also the providers participate. That's very important. For example, we do the same with everything we do on purchase. Here too, we are developing model clauses for contracts. This is also very helpful in reducing administrative burdens. Moreover, these results can at some point be made mandatory in general terms under this legislative proposal. I'll come back to that as well. In addition, of course, we are in the process of adapting legislation and regulations at all. The change to the residence principle is an example of this. This helps to reduce administrative burdens. We are certainly going to have the discussion about subscription rates. You can have all kinds of views on that, but at least that they also reduce the administrative burden in a very substantial way. So we're going to work proactively in all the regions. We are developing the instruments, which could at some point become mandatory under this law. We are also working through laws and regulations to reduce the administrative burden in the social domain. So what exactly are we dealing with with this bill, at the moment? The important thing is that we have given ourselves the opportunity to... With this bill, we give ourselves the opportunity to standardize and ask out a number of things. But I do want to be in exactly what that refers to, also a little in relation to the question of autonomy. Article 2.15 states that the rules "only" may relate to... That draws all its limitivity. They can only relate to the method of financing and administrative processes, the way in which data exchange takes place between youth aid providers, municipalities, etc., and the way in which accountability takes place. So that's what it can only be about. That's what it says. That is the law, that is the coat rack and those are the possibilities that the law actually offers. And at least what comes under that are the execution variants. It's been announced. There are three variants of how youth care is financed. We'll find out. That's important. There is an effort-oriented way of financing, p x q. There is an output-oriented way of financing. That is not an incentive payment by the way; I will come back to that in a moment. An example of this is trajectory cost. You pay for a journey, so not an hour-invoice, but the trajectory as a whole. And there's a job-oriented way of financing it. That's a form of population benefit. The latter form is still very rare and is not easy to standardize already. We just haven't gotten there yet. But of those first two ways, we can actually impose the "iStreads," as it is called. So this law, and then indeed the implementing regulation, the ministerial regulation that goes along with it, is coming to oblige those things. So, for example, at a later date, we can also require the developed model clauses in these contracts. You could do that. But we're not there yet. At a later stage you could also require that task-oriented execution variant in its design. We're not doing that right now, because we're not that far. At first, and in the same way as you have read the documents, we would also come to a single national audit protocol and we would make it mandatory, but we have seen that then would happen what Mr Hijink warns us about. Since you find that nationwide and you have actually established some lurid auditing possibilities, you will get that double that you must want to avoid. By laying down national rules you can also double instead of registering. That's the touchstone for me time and time again. In short, one, does it hold the space for the content that you want municipalities to make thoughtful and conscious choices about? Two, does it actually reduce administrative burdens and in such a way that all these unintended administrative burdens are removed? And three, doesn't it unintentionally create new administrative burdens? Of course, that's the last thing I want. In this way, I will review what is coming, and I assume that everything that industry organisations and the VNG have said together would help them to improve it is a step forward. That goes for this. What has been given here is entirely developed by providers and municipalities. The only thing we do here is offer the helpful hook by saying: but then you have to use it all. That's not quite the point yet. I come to the questions and I try to do them as briefly as possible. Mr Hijink asks whether I do not think that the degree of detail has gone through in municipalities. Yeah, I find that sometimes, to be honest. Sometimes I do, because I'm not gonna be generalizing about that. You also have municipalities that really think about that very consciously. For example, the timewriting, of which I myself think we should get rid of it. I'd like to make a suggestion. When I get signals, I find out if it's true. Who's gonna do that? Who's gonna do that? Often it is also unintentional and often it is because a kind of pxq-approach has been chosen. So because so many hours of care is bought in on time units, one also has to justify the time. Sometimes it has to do with internal control. For example, we are talking about someone who has a part-time contract and who works in addition, which has to be accounted for in time. Honestly, I think, boys, we're going to make a lot of effort to get rid of this, but we're going to keep it from getting used in youth care. Timewriting is, in fact, something I have just heard about, apparently on the basis of contracts that were concluded not so long ago. I think that is an example of a form of administration that is not necessary, and you should not want it, but that can happen unintentionally if you buy very pxq-like. I do not think that is necessary, so let me give this as an example to the regional approach we are going to develop with municipalities. If Mr Hijink has any signals that come to him in the mailbox, I strongly recommend that he get those signals forwarded. Do municipalities have the choice of different funding models? Yes, that task-oriented approach, that effort-oriented approach and that output-oriented approach are the three variants in which you can finance municipal care. That choice is made by the municipality itself. My prediction is that effort-oriented, pxq, is increasingly disappearing. That's actually a little old school. We're doing less and less of that. I also predict that task-oriented growth will continue where it is still very in its infancy. Job-oriented is also not always suitable as, for example, population benefit: for this district, so compiled, we need about as much budget to shape, for example, neighbourhood team care as we have defined it with each other, here is the budget, very much success with it. That's a population-oriented funding. But of course that cannot be done for all kinds of care. It is difficult to say that you assume that in the city of Amsterdam there are almost always an x-number of children dependent on closed youth support, so you get budget x, very good luck with it. I can't. Alphen aan de Rijn is by the way a municipality that has gone very far in that area and that seems to work quite nicely. That is interesting, we must learn from it, but it is still very in its infancy. What is now most commonly used is the output-oriented variant. That's a very ugly word for something that's actually really beautiful. You look at the care from the trajectory that young people go through and want to finance that trajectory as a whole. Why do you do that? Because within that route you will be able to have other expertise involved, to work across areas, which we talk about so often, to rethink what is best for young people. When your hour bill gets settled, you just do your thing. Then you are not encouraged to think about how you can deliver care in a different way. Well, that goes for route financing, though. If you are paid for the entire journey and you get an x-amount for it, you are encouraged to think in terms of: could we do something quite different for the same money we have for this? Somewhere in between I heard Mr. Hijink of these three versions suddenly also mention incentive payment. Look, output financing is a form of result financing. So what's the result? That's the trajectory. To this end, more and more municipalities are doing so. But be careful, because incentive payment is really something else. That's because if you don't get this performance, you don't get paid or anything. That's how you could have it. That's more of a "no cure, no pay" kind of thing. We shouldn't have that. Why not? Because then you get exactly what Mr. Hijink warns you about. For example, risk selection at the front becomes very attractive. Cherrypicking becomes very attractive. I'd say, if I were alderman, we're not gonna do that. You have to be careful to build in that kind of stimuli. So pxq can, but gets smaller and smaller. Output cost, trajectory cost, is becoming more and more common at the moment. Very nice things are being developed in that too. Job-oriented can sometimes be very promising, but that is still a bit in its infancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u49	The Minister is now saying that performance-oriented does not actually occur, but that is simply not true. I have here a piece from the Volkskrant from early December. It simply says: in the Amsterdam region, we are looking at how youth care institutions can only be given part of the money if the result is not achieved. In Hart van Brabant, purchasing youth aid is based on the desired result, an incentive for families, teachers and youth providers to think less in existing products and more in the result for the family. So there are several places in our country that are actually driven by achievement, namely: if you don't make sure this child doesn't go to school yet, then we're just gonna pay you less.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u50	My experience over the last eight years is that, when it's in the paper, you always have to be very vigilant and see if it works that way. For example, this may be a very short summary of what is intended. This also applies to the financing of results. What is the result of result financing? You will indeed formulate the result you wish to achieve at the front of the aid process. The funding shall cover the entire route. This is a form of result financing or output financing. There's all kinds of words for that, but they're a little messed up. You can also say that this is a form of performance financing, because an achievement is that, as you put it, students or children go back to school. These terms are sometimes used interchangeably, but the undermining or perverse effect you are referring to is the following. Sometimes that could still work for part of the amount, but frankly I think you should be very careful. Those are, of course, choices that municipalities eventually make, but if incentive payment is "you are not funded when the guy isn't in school," then of course you as a provider aren't so excited to complete that journey completely. Then you might be unintentionally stimulated to look very closely at which young people you're working with, because it might be that you're not gonna make it and then it might be that you don't get it. What could also be a form of incentive payment is that you give a bonus if a result is achieved. Then it's not so much a negative exit as a plus. All variants and all shapes occur. This legislative proposal states that we have the possibility of determining the implementation variants. The main models of the three execution variants "effort-oriented', "output-oriented' and "job-oriented' shall be defined. Inside, variants are also possible, but we have said that we can determine the iSths with this. They therefore relate to data sharing and messaging when it comes to effort-oriented and output-oriented. What we do not intend to do with this is that municipalities would stop thinking about what funding model they would choose because it helps them best. These funding models have, of course, been developed in the last few years in that municipal domain, whereas in the past, in the provincial youth aid system, funding was very much based on pxq. These are really more interesting and more substantial financing models than what was used in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u51	Mr Hijink, a little shorter, please, and also the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u52	Well, that wasn't my fault. The Minister actually acknowledges that it is incredibly unclear and that a lot of municipalities do have all kinds of new variants, even when it comes to incentive payments. The question is, of course, what is he going to do about it in this bill, because if we don't solve that problem, we will be left with hundreds of municipalities that are all going to develop their own model within these three variants. That means that the youth aid providers also have the problem of having different forms of responsibility for all these different models, and then we just don't get along very well at the end of the day. Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u53	I see something else; I actually see that it is converging. We thus determine variant versions. That is what we are doing where we are talking about effort-oriented and where we are talking about output-oriented. In particular, we see the iStherforesides. That's the back of the work process. It is then about data exchange and the message traffic as it has to work. That's the kind of thing we're gonna find out. What we do not yet see in this bill is the third version of implementation, because it has not yet been sufficiently developed. The task-oriented execution variant is not yet sufficiently developed. With this we determine the three execution variants effort-oriented, output-oriented and task-oriented. If you find them in iStrengths, it will certainly help to reduce the administrative burden considerably. In doing so, I sincerely believe that we do not unintentionally intervene in all the possibilities that municipalities would have and that we are indeed ensuring a proper reduction of the administrative burden as it currently exists. Is this the only answer? No, this isn't the only answer. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm gonna move on. Would I like to refer the ministerial arrangement to Parliament? The answer is yes. That is what I want to promise you, but I think you can simply go through with your amendment to the law, because then it is also laid down by law that I have to do it. I wouldn't mind that. I was right to give an opinion on the amendment, which is: Court of Justice judgment. It's tough, I'll warn you, but so be it. Mrs Bergkamp asked if you could do this when it comes to the Wlz and the Zvw. That's an interesting question. In a sense, in both... No, I have to put it more precisely. Something has been arranged in the Wlz, especially in the implementing decision of the Wlz, some indications have been given. The question is whether you could go even further in that or that could be helpful in a more advanced form of standardisation. To be honest, I think that it has now been reasonably arranged at the level at which we are going to do so in municipalities, but I would like to make that inventory, because that is what you are actually asking. In the case of the Zvw there is not so much regulated in the law in relation to those secondary processes, but in practice it is again. I would therefore also like to make that inventory. How far I get in there and to what extent it is necessary, of course, there has to be a form of necessity in order to actually enforce something legally, I have to take stock, but that is exactly why you are asking. When it comes to ICT or data exchange, it may be something else, because that is more the ICT that supports the primary process, whereas it is mainly about secondary processes. Think of the administrative handling, the invoicing, the messaging and so on. But more support in the data exchange in the primary process is a point that I think the VVD has previously drawn attention to. The VVD, in cooperation with Mrs Ellemeet, asked us to return to this subject in a very exotic way. I think Mr Bruins said that he would send a letter to the Chamber before Christmas. On what we could do, how VWS can take his directional role, I believe that was the question of ICT data exchange in the Zvw domain, we come back with a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u54	I welcome the Minister's commitment that he will take stock of whether there is also a battle in the care offices and the Health Insurance Act. That's very nice. When can the Minister come back to that? Can he include my other questions when it comes to the pgb in the various health care laws? Is there also a uniformation useful to deal with the regulatory burden?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u55	Actually, I think that's a separate question. I'm gonna take a look at the civil servant's lodge.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u56	"March" they say there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u57	I hear "March." March? March it is! There's something else at the pgb. It's the secondary processes, how do you get payment? Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. The pgb 2.0, which we are going to have a lively debate about tomorrow, is precisely this, but in an extremely standardised way from the front to the back. It's totally standardized. There's no practical variation in that anymore. When it comes to rules in the different laws, that might be possible, but they do not relate to secondary processes, I think, but much more to primary processes. They are much more related to the law from which this pgb possibility arises. This seems to me more than to be discussed in the policy agenda pgb, which we are going to discuss at the beginning of next year if you have planned that AO. At least I want that agenda in the direction of your Chamber before Christmas. That is the policy agenda, with much more the substantive renewal of the pgb. It would be a good conversation to see if there is any variation between those different laws that you shouldn't want: is it explanatory? But here we are dealing with administrative processes. We really solve that in pgb 2.0. In the area of administrative burdens, Mr Peters asked if I am prepared to use the powers. He also asked for this particularly in the area of regional cooperation, but also in the area of administrative burdens. Yeah, I'll do it the way I suggest. The law offers the possibility. They are then ministerial arrangements which actually give substance to this possibility. On a number of parts, as I have just indicated, I do so with the versions that have been developed far enough by now. The amendment in part No. 8 I've just given "judge chamber." There is also Mr Hijink's amendment to item No. 9. I would advise against this because it actually says: you can't ask for anything more accountable than what the bill requires. I hope I have just explained: yes, it is indeed a standardisation on the secondary, more administrative processes that get away from the choice of a funding model. That's where we're tight. But you also want substantive choices to be made. So I'm not going to standardize what the substantive responsibility may be, because if I did, I'd be sitting very much on the municipality's policy chair. That is really intervening in the freedom of policy that we have just given to municipalities to do the right thing. Accountability and what you meet in contracts are incredibly closely linked. So I can't order that from here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u58	I find it complicated. I do understand what Mr Peters said earlier, namely that there may be situations where you would like to request additional data. On that point, I would like to amend the amendment. But you would say that if we are going to make very clear agreements here as well about what is a good way of accountability, then I only mean what is regulated in the legislative proposal, it is obvious that the municipalities are not going to make additional demands on top of that. That is precisely what this amendment is about, precisely to prevent us from stacking up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u59	This bill regulates the possibility on a number of issues, which I have just mentioned. We are only making limited use, at least for the time being, of the possibilities offered by the legislative proposal. We are, in fact, making particular use of the method of financing and administrative processes. That's actually what we're doing now. So we haven't filled in so much on accountability yet. This could possibly come at the time when we establish standard clauses in contracts together, because they are often also one-on-one to translate into accountability. Let me give you an example: model provisions in contracts dealing with solvency. That's more in the questioning than in the call for tenders. Institutions must demonstrate how financially sound they are. Then you have solvency requirements. You can ask them out in a thousand ways. It's super irritating if we actually do that. In fact, we all want to know the same thing, namely: will this institution fall apart on 2 January when I contracted it on 1 January, or does it have enough fat on its bones? That's what every city wants to know. You might as well settle that in one provision. Then it is indeed absurd to put another possibility on top of that. For example, I can think of more examples where I do come close to you, but they are all really about the non-policy-rich parts of contracts. If you were going to limit on that other part, the more care-related side, what you can ask for, then you are very much on the policy chair of the municipality. I do not think that we should really want to do that, because then we really are undermining the idea of decentralisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u60	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u61	However, the amendment does not require more than what the Minister intends to regulate under this law, and not to allow new additional requirements of municipalities for these matters, understanding Mr Peters' point that the amendment on that point will have to be adjusted. May I suggest otherwise? If we reformulate the amendment one of these days, can the Minister give an opinion on that modified amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u62	Oh, yeah. Definitely. I really read it this way: we are going to be accountable, and then we cannot ask for anything else. I fear that the obligation we are about to impose will always apply only to part of the traffic between the municipality and providers. You never try to standardize things with the care-related, policy-rich part, but actually always with the more administrative part, so that the power of thought can sit on the content of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u63	I liked the question and the answer, Mr. Hijink. You said, "Do you?" And he said "yes."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u64	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u65	Then why don't we just leave it at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u66	We can do that. Then we'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u67	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u68	Mr. Chairman. I honestly think that's all... No, that's not true. Mrs Tielen asked another question. When do municipalities consistently use the standards? Then we really go very deeply into the technique, but we are currently monitoring, for example, the extent to which all provisions on messaging actually go in a good way. For example, it is about the starting date of the care. Then there should be a signal from a municipality to a provider and from a provider to a municipality. It may be that either one of them didn't take it well enough and so it's stuck somewhere. The whole process of invoicing then requires even more manual work to actually arrive at payment. It can be super irritating for municipalities if providers leave something there, and vice versa for providers like municipalities leave something there, because then you're on the phone all the time about your money. That is a waste of time; you can also make it up to other things. This is just one example. That's actually what this is about. You have to pin down exactly what you can expect from everyone and from that moment on you must also be able to talk about that from you. The further standardisation of those standard protocols is currently under way, but you have to think about that. So you're pretty deep under the hood of a municipality or a provider. We have just discussed additional requirements. I have just partly replied to the question about the application of the iSthurgens. The chain management of i-Social Domain monitors or municipalities that apply execution variants and that iSthen consistently and consistently. As a result of these monitoring results, municipalities and providers can also be contacted. We will. That was the administrative burden block. I'm gonna move on to regional cooperation. This has been asked for in many variants, but actually there are two main themes. I'm picking up this block through those two main themes. The first is: how can we actually enforce regional cooperation? If love in the region is over, I'm gonna sum it up domestically. Can an intervention from the department really help rekindle that love? The second issue is: is it not quite rigorous to put something that was a temporary provision including an automatic expiration, actually permanently back into the law? I want to start with that last topic. My answer is no. Actually, that makes a lot of sense. As we are now concerned about possible disintegrating regions, we see that disintegrating happens occasionally. At least now we have the stick behind the door to intervene. It's usually not convenient to grab that stick and run for it. There are also many other possibilities. For example, you also have a phone and there are many other ways to fix things that are threatening to go wrong. So you don't have to go straight to heavy artillery, but it's nice that you have that stick behind the door, because it also radiates: beware, we really need to regulate the heavier or more complex and more specialised forms of youth care at regional level, because otherwise it doesn't work. That's just for the sake of the system. You wouldn't have that when you don't have this provision anymore. On the question of whether this is really necessary permanently, of course, my second question is: if you could now be concerned about disintegrating a region, why not in five years' time? Do you think it is okay if a region falls apart and if the second-line youth care or the more specialised forms of youth care are no longer bought on a regional scale? I don't think so. I think you would have asked the Rutte V cabinet to intervene when I see that a region is disintegrating and taking responsibility for my system. Then I would not like to say back to you: yes, but how then; I do not have any title to take that phone and to intervene? In short, I think that we should want this commitment to regional cooperation for specialised forms of youth care. In fact, if Mr Blokhuis is going to start working with the ggz and decentralise protected living to individual municipalities, moving away from the centre municipalities, because that is what I think you need to have such a type of delegation clause there, so that you can appeal to municipalities on their responsibility for the coherent functioning of the system. So much for this block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u69	I think it is very good that the Minister can speak very passionately and often convincingly at this time, but in this little block he really does not convince me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u70	Not yet, I'd like to make that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u71	Well, who knows what we're getting at? We have decentralised this concern with the idea that these regions and these municipalities are going to take care of it themselves. You do need a lead time. Things have to be better and things aren't going well. That is true, but I think it is, of course, too premature to say that it could not come off the ground. So I just really don't understand the Minister when he says he needs that stick and that he already knows he needs it permanently. I think we should see how this develops first. If things don't go well, we still have to intervene, but we can't yet see that we assume that it will still be necessary to have that stick.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u72	If we did not have this provision, we would not say anywhere in the law that it is necessary to cooperate on a number of matters at regional level. Then we could say: can't these municipalities think of that themselves? It is, and usually it goes well. Except around the transition, so around the start in 2015, we never had to pull out the possibilities that that provision offered, then to actually force municipalities into regional cooperation. The mere fact that it was assumed that there was regional cooperation on youth protection, on specialized forms of youth care and on Safe Home was sufficient to understand: that is just what you have to do, that is what you cannot do as a municipality alone and so you are approachable to it. Now, Mrs Ellemeet asks: does it really not fit in with a decentralised system that you don't talk about, and does it really not fit in with just saying at some point: watch it go, let's hope it's gonna be okay? That might be possible, but it's not that complicated. At that time it is simply a resting provision in the law and then I do not use it. It couldn't be. With the amendment you are proposing, this provision would automatically lapse. Then we'll be in that Rutte V cabinet and we'll have that disintegrating region. Then you talk to me about taking my system responsibility and then I should say back: "What then? Surely I cannot appeal to the municipalities to cooperate regionally which they are not obliged to do?'.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u73	Thank you. Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u74	Frankly, this sounds a bit like a wash, because we often talk to the Minister about things that do not go well in youth care, and then the Minister says: I can't do anything, it's there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u75	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u76	Things are not going well, and when we talk about the Wmo and decentralised care, the Minister says: yes, but that's not up to me. I therefore find it quite remarkable that we now have a minister who says: I want that stick and I want to be able to act if necessary. I have not seen so much of it in the debates so far. Anyway, perhaps the Minister's attitude will change if things don't go well with the municipalities and he wants to act more actively. That does not, of course, alter the fact that it is still complicated that this stick will be needed if we assume that that power ultimately lies with the municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u77	I feel like we're reasoning in a circle. I believe that the same question has been asked in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u78	Then I would ask the Minister to give me another answer and perhaps reach out to me again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u79	And then he goes on with the next piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u80	First of all, I should like to say that Mrs Ellemeet has a very brief interpretation, which could be due to your encouragements, President-in-Office of the Council, of the extent to which I take up my system responsibility. When it comes to an individual municipality in which a choice is made, I am indeed inclined to say: could the city council of that municipality not be as firm towards its own college as you are in my direction? For example, your colleague Mrs Westerveld has sometimes asked if I would like to see a youth council set up in all the municipalities. Yeah, sorry, that's what city councils are for, 380 of them. And they're doing a hell of a job. But when it comes to regional cooperation, it is really about a system of responsibility, namely: it cannot really work if the second-line care or the more specialised forms of youth care do not have the peace of regional cooperation. Because if you go from one client to eighteen clients, that's not crazy at all, eighteen municipalities in one youth care region. That's for a gi, a certified institution, almost impossible to do. Either it becomes an explosion of administrative burdens or of the contract management capacity you need. In short, sometimes it can but sometimes it can't. That's why I think you should really give yourself the opportunity to appeal to municipalities for regional cooperation. And the other way around, I don't see the motivation to want to deprive yourself of that opportunity, because that's actually what your amendment does. I'm sorry about that, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u81	That is not the case, because we say that it is a temporary power that you can extend. It's just that we need to look. We're in the early stages, aren't we? That is what the Minister often says: give it time to develop. I agree. We have to intervene if it doesn't go well, but give it time to develop and then, when the dust has dropped, let's see what we've come up with. How does it work? What doesn't work well and what works well? Then in a later phase, if we can see much better, you can see if we still have to make it permanent. I just think it's too soon. I think it is too early to record this in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u82	Can't you handle that incredibly relaxed? Surely you can always say at some point, when you have evaluated the law, that this provision can come out? But I think it's kind of the reverse world if you say already that you're sure you won't need that provision in a couple of years. Then I think, "Why?" What do we derive this certainty from? I also think that I would very much like to have the instrument in the toolbox to intervene when a region completely disintegrates. If I don't need that instrument, it's nice and quiet in his box and I don't take it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u83	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u84	Then there's the other block. Should I, by the way, give a formal opinion on the amendment? Is that a convenient way to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u85	Well, let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u86	That is the amendment to item No. 13. Because the amendment to item No. 12's moved in, right? So then we have the amendment in part No. 13, the Ellemeet/Van der Staaij amendment. I've seen them working together a lot lately. It's a very exotic collaboration. But the amendment is really discouraged, for all the reasons I have just mentioned. Then there's the other element. 'Cause how do you do that? If the regions no longer love each other, how am I going, as Cupid from The Hague, to restore that love? This is one of the reasons why I started saying tonight that this is obviously not the panacea for all things. For example, there may be a good reason for a municipality, as Mrs Tielen said, to say that it is more convenient to join another region. There could just be a good reason. It is certainly no reason for me to intervene if that is simply thought through and the continuity of care is not in danger. Well, fine. There may be a good reason why it might be useful to make 43 regions instead of 42. It's possible. I am not going to go directly into every form of regional reclassification with big guns. We shouldn't. Otherwise, I should have just put those 42 regions in the law. I didn't. There are indeed laws in which we have anchored the regional classification. What we need to do is to give ourselves an opportunity to intervene when we see that continuity is at stake, because municipalities really misjudge what they can or cannot achieve on their own, or because municipalities really think it is possible to make such a switch in the regional reclassification at a time that providers cannot experience at all. Therefore, if cooperation is really necessary, it is appropriate for the effective and effective implementation of this law, as it stands in the law, but it does not come about, then I have something to do. How? How's that going? The first step is knowing what you're talking about. You're getting a signal. You're gonna validate that. So you're looking into what's actually going on in that region. The second step, or a next step, is that you're trying to reach administrative agreements, so you don't have to hit an AMvB. The next step is that you have the opportunity to hit an AMvB. Then you can say: no, this region stays together for a while. That's a possibility. That's the last chance. It's never been used. In fact, it can now, but that possibility has never been used. Why not? Because you're always gonna be okay before that. Either there's just for a good reason a reclassification going on, or it's possible to come together on the basis of administrative agreements until the region stays together. It has never been used to date. It has been asked how often it has been used, but it has never been used. I do not even know whether we will have to make use of it, because I think that the mere fact that that possibility is at the end of it makes it a very effective step forward, reaching administrative agreements. If you take the last step away, there's a lot less possibility of ending administrative agreements, I guess. It actually looks like inter-administrative supervision as it is in the law. We were asked how many times we have used that so far. This also applies: around the transition phase quite regularly, but never as far as I am now with the region of North Holland. It also makes sense to validate the facts first, then to reach administrative agreements and, as a burden resort, to be able to take over municipal responsibility. Then we put VWS officials in the seat of municipal officials in order to finally conclude contractual agreements. We can, but if we can stay away from it, we must, of course, try, because it is very complex. Then you also come into contact with all sorts of interesting questions like: how does this relate to the responsibility of the city council at that time? In short, because of the possibility of the last step, the one-after-last step is a very effective one. If we were not to allow ourselves that last step, I would say in the direction of Mrs Ellemeet, I am afraid that the one-after-last step will be less effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u87	The Minister just made the comparison with the intervention ladder inter-administrative supervision of the Youth Act. We already have those instruments. I remember there was some kind of threat to it. Then why is such a delegation base still needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u88	Because this is actually a speciality of that. Without the legal standard of regional cooperation for specialised forms of youth care, it is not really possible to use the existing intergovernmental intervention ladder for that purpose. Of course, it is not a free toolbox that you can use at will. You will always have to explain why you are taking that step and why, for the sake of continuity and quality of care, you consider it necessary to take that step. If the norm isn't that you have to work together at regional level... This is a very good question. You should think about what would happen. Suppose a region completely disintegrates, which means, for example, that youth protection can no longer work. I would then have to have the other instruments to achieve regional cooperation. Let's say it's another region with 18 municipalities. That would mean using that scaling-up to reach administrative agreements. If that does not work, I would have to put VWS officials in all these 18 municipalities in order to ensure that a common arrangement is agreed and that this common arrangement will then organise procurement for specialised forms of youth care. Can you imagine how this is gonna work? Of course, it is much easier to say: we arrive at administrative agreements and if we fail, we hit an AMvB. That AMvB states that municipalities are condemned to each other. That is a much easier way of intervention, which in a sense is a less radical variant of the intervention ladder, because it is only about hitting an AMvB, requiring a region to work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u89	Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u90	Is it a panacea for everything? No, of course not. But it is a helpful instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u91	The first paragraph of Article 2.8 is: "The colleges shall cooperate with each other if this is appropriate for the effective and effective implementation of this law." That's what it says. So there's already a hook to handle that with that intervention ladder. The minister says he needs the delegation base to find a hook for the intervention ladder, but that part of the law just stays in place. Isn't that just a hook for the intervention ladder?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u92	Yes, but it's about the instrument with which you can then enforce it. The last step in the regular intervention ladder is that you take over the municipal authority for the part where you see it go wrong. What if you saw it go wrong on regional cooperation? It's actually all theoretical, because we really hope we'll be out before then. But that would mean that you would come through the regular intervention ladder to take over the problem, in this case regional cooperation. For example, regional cooperation could require the establishment of a common regime. So you would actually have to take that decision in those 18 municipalities in the region in order to arrive at, for example, a common regulation. There's no way to do that. That's so complicated administratively, I don't see how that should work at all. What this offers is that in the scaling-up in the steps you finally define in an AMvB: this is the region and you will have to do it with it. This is a much simpler and less far-reaching form of enforcement than the use of the regular instruments of inter-administrative supervision. Because you put the standard in the law in that way and you have the AMvB as a last scaling-up option as an instrument, it prevents you from using a much more complicated and far-reaching instrument when it comes to regional cooperation. We have been asked whether we are already in agreement with the regions. Yes, in all shapes and sizes. I will go into Parlan in a moment, because in the head of North Holland it is the most concrete. Are there forms of cooperation that can also be counterproductive? Yeah, no doubt. I am not going to sit here and assess the quality of all forms of cooperation. I can't see that at all, of course. I would then agree with Mrs Ellemeet that you would go a long way in a decentralised system. Of course, the regions sometimes do not like each other and there is indeed some grumbling about each other. Of course: come on, big guys are and just keep going. I can be expected to do something when the system of responsibility is at stake, namely if youth protection simply cannot function because of a disintegrating region. This is also an answer to the question of when the border has been reached in order to actually enforce cooperation. This is in fact the result of the legal provision as it has been formulated: necessary cooperation must be lacking in areas and the necessary cooperation must be lacking in an area despite the agreement-oriented consultations which I do indeed have to carry out. It's always a bit of a miracle term. It's common in education. Most of the consultations I conduct are generally focused on consensus and rarely on conflict. How, then, is it established that there is insufficient cooperation? I cannot give a very strict and unambiguous answer to that. I would like to point out to Mrs Bergkamp that this is an instrument that you do not pull out every day. I don't pull that out of the closet when there's a little bit of a grunting on each other. I'm pulling that out of the closet the moment I think continuity of care is at stake. If that is the signal, if cooperation is so bad that you simply cannot organize the specialised forms of youth care in such a region because there is simply no administrative cooperation, then I think I have to take action. I can't force love, but I can ask congregations to stay together for the children. That's it. That's it. That's how you see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u93	Have you gotten to the tender block yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u94	Well, I guess so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u95	Then it seems good to me to go there now. If at the end someone has a pressing question that hasn't been answered, we'll find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u96	If I'm gonna get a lot of groaning, you're gonna stand next to me, too, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u97	But if we don't, we're gonna have another one, and I'd be sorry to hear that, too. So why don't you just take a quick look at the subject of procurement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u98	It is a pity that this has to be so hasty at a quarter past a night, because this is just my favourite subject, but perhaps I can still do the abbreviated version. A number of vague things have been said about it. There is even a real initiative law in the same exotic cooperation tabled by Mrs Ellemeet and Mr Van der Staaij. There has been an amendment, which is perhaps even more surprising than an own-initiative law, which the SP has said could be put into effect. I think I've made myself clear on several occasions. I haven't changed my mind either, as I said several times when I was alderman and now. In fact, as an alderman, I have seen how complicated that can be. In fact, this was not so much the case when we had to implement decentralisation in all municipalities. The previous Procurement Directive applied at that time, with a 2A and a 2B regimes. That is that you had much more space in the social domain to shape the procedure so that it actually suited what you were contracting. In the meantime, the procurement directive has been amended. The possibility of multiple direct awards has lapsed. This has been implemented in the Dutch Procurement Act. That is, I believe, implemented in April 2016. From that moment on, municipalities had a public procurement obligation. I hear all kinds of variations on that. Whether municipalities actually have a tendering obligation? Yes, of course. You can subsidise that, but then you just can't make enforceable demands. And that's problematic, though. If you, as a municipality, have all kinds of demands under the law, and you cannot transfer them to a healthcare provider. We should not be too skittish about that, which is really problematic in the direction that municipalities have, and in the accountability they have towards their city council. So we shouldn't think about that too relaxed. You got that open-house tender. Those aren't really tenders at all. That is actually saying: this is about the bar, we set it so high and anyone who can jump over it, come in with your servant. If you do that in a big city with a big pot of money for care in big cities, it's hundreds of millions of dollars in big cities, then that's really a kind of pot of syrup that everyone really comes at. The effect of this is that it works extremely shrunk in the supply of care. It undermines cooperation, because each of us actually competes with the client. The moment you jumped over that bar, the number of clients you then serve is also the basis for the payment. That's very much in the pxq variants when it comes to contracts. And then you're paid according to the number of clients you serve. In short, it does not ultimately promote cooperation but rather competition. It is at most an easier procedure to go through, but it is certainly not conducive to the system and its functioning. I see that a lot of municipalities have chosen it, and I am glad to see that a lot of municipalities are starting to come back from it, because it is simply not a very appropriate form. There was even a region that wanted to buy youth protection through open house. Fortunately, none of the gi registered on it, because they rightly said: sorry, but you really cannot regulate youth protection through an open house construction. In short, no real alternative either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u99	I'm going to allow an interruption at the end of the "buyed" block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u100	We have two ways to deal with it. One way is to ensure that we support municipalities in contracting, in doing good within the current directive, within the current Procurement Act. Why do we do that? Because, within the current procurement directive, there is really a lot to be done. There is more possible than what is happening now in helping employers to be a good employer, in promoting the continuity of care. There are plenty of possibilities that you're just going to do within the current Procurement Act. I come in January with a letter in the direction of the Chamber in which state we are all going to do to support municipalities. And that's really a lot. The second thing we have to do is to go along a path towards Europe. The current procurement directive is simply one-on-one translated into the Dutch Procurement Act. It also has a direct effect in the Dutch Procurement Act. So my position is that it is not possible to amend a European directive by means of Dutch legislation. I say this in the direction of Mr Hijink, and very secretly, because, of course, I do not judge the initiative law until it is here in the Chamber. That's just not possible. Would I like to go faster? Yeah, of course I'd like to go faster. That is why I am on my way to Brussels. Maybe they're having a drink by now, but literally, as we speak, our people are sitting there in consultation with the European Commission to see what scope might be possible within the European Procurement Directive. Because that space isn't here right now. Then I mean that everything is actually seized. This concerns the REFIT programme of Mr Timmersmans, the European Commissioner. This is about evaluating the procurement directive. This is about a possible interpretative space to be found or to be created within the Procurement Directive for the social domain in the Netherlands, where we say that the social domain, which is important there, is an alliance that conflicts with the ratios behind the Procurement Act, which promotes competition. There's no market. Care is not a market, let alone a European market. Well, it turns out it is. There has never been a European invitation to tender for care in the Netherlands. With that argument, we also want to say to the European Union: where it is indeed promoting a European market for entrepreneurs, it is very nice to do so, and then the procurement directive is actually helpful and protective for companies that want a fair share of the public grape. But this is something else. This isn't a market. There is no European market. It just doesn't exist. There is no cross-border interest and so you have to look at what is the most important way of buying in for that concern. In fact, the possibilities that existed under the old Procurement Act were far from so crazy. Sometimes contracting can help. It helps municipalities to articulate what they actually need. But that forced need for prior publication, for competition leads to hassle for municipalities and for institutions. Actually, no one is satisfied with that right now. In short, we have this conversation in a very intensive way, but we do have the space to create it and we cannot amend it per amendment in Dutch law. Period. That was the cube.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u101	Good. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u102	The minister says, "care is not a market." That's a nice statement. There is still a great deal to be done about government policy in order to achieve this. My question is this. In his response, the Minister is now mainly concerned with the procurement process. Many municipalities still have the impression that this is mandatory, while there are many other variants. Subsidise, for example. You can also steer with subsidising. There are in-between variants. How is it that we only talk about procurement here every time? Mrs Ellemeet's law is also about the Procurement Act, while both the Wmo and the Youth Act literally state "if a contract is chosen'. That suggests or suggests that there are other possibilities. Then we must make much more use of these opportunities and also arrange for municipalities to make use of them instead of these idiotic procurement rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u103	I do not share that with Mr Hijink, because you have to look at whether it is actually a real possibility by alternative means. In my opinion, it is said a little too quickly that municipalities also have all kinds of other possibilities. For example, subsidising has the disadvantage that you can make mutually enforceable agreements, for example how many clients you're actually going to help can't make. You can write them down in your grant agreement, but if such a grant agreement comes to justice, the judge will always say: this is just a contract for the award of contracts. So it's not possible to pretend that I'm funding, and then secretly make contractual agreements. If you do, you're basically in violation of the Procurement Act. That's the kind of agreement you should've signed. I'm not going to say it's too easy to subsidise, are I? Yeah, you can, but you're gonna have to put all your control options on the dike. At least, "all your options," at least many of the options you need to carry out your municipal responsibility in a good way. So watch what you're doing. In the field of youth protection, I can imagine something else, because there are actually not so many alternatives and because you actually have to deal with the clients that the judge says are dependent on youth protection. Then it's something else. But in the other forms of youth care or of Wmo-zorg, it seems to me that as a municipality you give a lot of control options out of your hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u105	From open house I have just indicated to what extent that is an alternative. I do not think that is a very sensible alternative either. In short, I am not from the school "municipalities have all kinds of other possibilities, they just have to choose something other than contracting."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u106	Mr. Hijink, very briefly. It's really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u107	Well, Mr. Chairman. We'd like to treat this law properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u108	Yeah, but I feel like I've heard the same thing a few times now. That you just don't agree. Couldn't it be?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u109	That could very well be the case, but I would like to make sure that we now pass that law on high speed trains, and that has to be done carefully, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u110	That's for sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u111	My point was... Yeah, what was my point? Look, there you go.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u112	You disagreed on the tender.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u113	The alternatives. You can actually steer. The problem I have is that the Minister is too focused on procurement, when you should look at what is best for young people when it comes to youth care. You want to assume the best for the young. So they must be able to choose the care that suits them best. This means that you have to keep several options open in a municipality. Contracting entities shall result in competition. We've seen that in a lot of places and you can tell by what's going on in North Holland. So it doesn't lead to the best result. Then I find it very unfortunate that we are fully focused here on how we can improve the procurement process, when we are actually closing the door for all the other variants; variants that I think should be deepened. Shutting the door is what the minister is doing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u114	It may sound crazy, but I'm gonna try anyway. I think we are actually more in agreement than Mr Hijink assumes. We really do not agree that even now, within the current legal context, there would be all kinds of alternatives for municipalities that would work equally well. That is not true, as far as I am concerned. We are not going to repeat the debate on this, because I am dead to the President. Nor do I think that we should say to municipalities that there would be all kinds of alternatives, because they would be confused. So in many of the cases, municipalities will be kept to enforce the Procurement Act. But you say that it is a pity that we are so focused on whether what we are doing actually fits within the Procurement Act. Actually, you'd like to have a lot more space to wonder what's just good because of the content. You just want to be able to work with those parties that you just know are good? Sometimes such parties have been literally the partner of a municipality in recent decades. With those parties you want to work together, not to exclude innovation, but to develop new things in partnership. Sometimes that's what you want, because of the quality. And you can't do that right now. And you do. And so we have to recreate that space for ourselves. But you do not do that by an amendment to the Youth Act, but you do so by finding the space for that in Brussels. We're having an intensive conversation about that. I will report to the Chamber in January how far we stand in this and also what I intend to do. What matters to me is more room for manoeuvre within the current Procurement Directive. Maybe it can be done through more interpretive space. To be honest, I hope so, because that is a faster road than an adaptation of the directive as such. So I hope that it can be done through more interpretative space within the directive, to do something different than always before. So I think we're very close to each other in our substantive goal. Well, if that wasn't a binding message, Mr. President, then I don't remember either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u115	Then we'll go straight to the casuism.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u116	The casusism. I believe that Parlan in particular was on the agenda. I've told you before where my concerns were. Of course, there was a lawsuit. But I also said at the time: the judge might well say that the tender is correct, but that does not have to be the case. And with that we can still worry about the continuity of closed care for those children there, but also about the continuity of care at all for the children who are housed in Transferium, and perhaps even about the continuity of the institution Parlan, a major youth care provider. Of course, we have kept in regular contact with the municipalities. In addition, we have also formally used the escalation ladder that Mrs Bergkamp has just quoted. So first there was validation of information. We have, of course, had the signals from Parlan himself, there has been a broadcast of Nieuwsuur and there has been a number of signals from employees. Those were the signals that came in. We had to validate them first: is that actually true? We did that along the VNG's road, and we did it along the way of the Ambassador Care Landscape. It has shown us what is going on here and what concerns we must have about this. We have come to the conclusion that we were quite rightly concerned about the continuity of closed youth care at the time. We asked the region to give us an answer to those continuity questions that we had. That answer also came at the agreed time. In this respect, cooperation is actually very good with that group of municipalities there. I also think it is very justifiable that they have used this innovation. We are particularly concerned about continuity. So we have had answers to our questions about continuity. That was just before the judge's ruling. We have also said that not all the answers to our continuity questions are well received. That's not possible, either, because the judge hadn't given a ruling at the time. That made it a little complicated to discuss these continuity issues with both parties. That's why we mentioned a new date when it really had to be inside. That date was today. As a result of the judge's ruling, it is really important to enter into the conversation between the two closed-down care providers in this region, but also with the surrounding regions that had their children at Transferium. How do we answer that continuity question? I'll get back to it tomorrow, but I understand from a first scan that the continuity plan looks pretty good. There are still a number of questions, but we are going to answer them in the next few days. I suggest that I let you know how the transition from one provider to another is arranged in such a way that continuity is not at stake. That applies especially to the children who are sitting there now. They should be able to finish their treatment. I don't know if you've seen the girl in Nieuwsuur whose father is very worried? That is exactly the type of concern that I should be able to take responsibility for at that time. "Select responsibility" sounds like something very boring and as a very thick piece of VWS, but system responsibility ultimately simply means individual continuity of a youth assistance pathway. In this case, I also know that it was very difficult to find something that was actually appropriate. We've been involved, too. These are very vulnerable children and we really need to ensure that the continuity of the aid process is beyond question and above all. That's what our deal is about. We are now in step three, making administrative arrangements in that scaling-up process. A next step would be to actually take over it. I have a strong impression that we are not going to get there at all, and that we are talking in a very constructive way with the municipalities how to tackle the continuity issues here. I am going to clarify in a letter in your direction what the steps we have taken and where we have come from have been. I hope to do that before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u117	First, a question of fact. Those congregations sent us a letter today, too. In that letter they say: given the volume of the contract of EUR 34 million, it had to be tendered. Does the Minister share this view, or could the region have taken another option?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u118	No, not if they're actually planning to make a stay appointment. There's no other way. You cannot give a subsidy to a closed youth care service and then not even make agreements about how many children are being helped. It can't be. Yes, I believe that with the current Procurement Act, there was no other option for municipalities than to launch a tender, unless they were willing to put aside all the options for steering. It's not illegal, but I don't think it's wise to do that as a municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u119	This is a weird statement: giving out all the control. There are more ways to steer. You don't need tenders to organize new forms of care, to "innovate" as it's called. If there were a need for other forms of care among some of the people in need of youth care, it would have been particularly good in this situation to have a contract with both institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u120	You could have.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u121	But why is that happening in such a rude way that young people are now in total uncertainty, that locations are closing and that therapists are running away? There is total uncertainty among young people as to where they are about to end up. Isn't that an outcome that no one can be satisfied with?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u122	Still. Wait a minute. First of all, your question is: are they obliged to tender? My answer is: under the current procurement directive of the Dutch Procurement Act, the current legislation, the answer to that question is yes, unless you make agreements that are mutually enforceable. Then a grant agreement is good, too. Is it wise to give money to an institution where you cannot expect something to be delivered that is somehow checkable? I think it is unwise to do so, given the legal responsibilities we have now given to municipalities. In short, if you as a municipality want to have control options, yes, then you are subject to tendering. The second question is: have they handled this conveniently? No, I didn't have all those conversations with this region for nothing. Of course I think there is room for improvement in the continuity of care. That already starts with the choice to choose one provider for closed youth care. You can also choose two providers for closed youth care. That's just the contract. That is another picture of the story that you also have in your hands with the current Procurement Act a lot of different possibilities to do it. "It was a fairly short-term contract," for example, is a complaint, but can you just put a five-year contract on the market? That's possible, isn't it? So there are possibilities within the current Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u123	Thank you. And you're going to write a letter about the future, about how it's going to go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u124	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u125	Is there any specific question about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u126	No, about something else. I think the minister is ready, isn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u127	With the casusism.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u128	I do have a question to ask about the waiting lists. I'm gonna have to do that for a while. That's a next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u129	I also asked a question about the annual report of the Youth Transition Authority, in which it states that this necessary regional cooperation sometimes does not come about because they do not want to be mutually supportive about these financial deficits.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u130	Yeah, that's true. That's right. It was somewhere in the pile, though. Look, there are all kinds of reasons why things can get tough in mutual cooperation. These may be reasons of a very personal nature. Indeed, I have also seen that there has been absolute tension in a region where, for example, one of the municipalities had a strong deficit and where quite generous, Brabant solidarity agreements had been made. Solidarity arrangements seem, of course, a good idea. I would always be in favour of that in principle, but if they are very generous and one municipality within that region is very financially out of line, then that is going to get worse. Then that gives tension, because that means that the other municipalities have to adjust for that one municipality. Those other municipalities could also find that one municipality: "You should send much better on your access. You're gonna send everything to the second line. Can't those neighborhood teams of yours get a little louder so they don't have to be referred to the second-line youth support?" That kind of dispute is, of course, going to give friction in a region. Is that always bad? No, that is also a very healthy substantive debate in terms of: what can we expect from our neighbourhood teams together? In short, financial pressure can provide cooperation issues in the region. Or too generously made solidarity agreements can give crooked faces in the region. Or rather, no solidarity agreements at all where you can expect something of solidarity, for example in lowering the peaks and the cuts in spending, can put pressure on the line. In short, there are so many reasons for tension; it can all be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u131	That's right. My point was, in particular, that we should make a problem analysis in the sense of: when are you going to intervene and what solutions do you have? If there are financial deficits, it may not always be smart to enforce top-down cooperation, but well...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u132	Just for a moment at this point. If the system is to be taken into account, the basis for intervention will always be that the continuity of care is compromised. In fact, that is separate from the financial situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u133	Clear. My follow-up question is also about this system responsibility. In fact, the Minister clearly states that he wants to fill it out with this additional basic provision. Then you say, "I need to be able to enforce that cooperation. That belongs to my system responsibility if it threatens to go wrong." It is actually a very basic position when you say: 'In this way I want to give substance to this system of responsibility. I must be able to enforce that system responsibility if it threatens to go wrong in a region with continuity of care." But...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u134	Yeah, "principal" or just practical.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u135	Well, no, no. My point is that it is also principled. My question to the Minister is: should this not apply to the Health Insurance Act? After all, the ministers already have this system of responsibility for all the laws of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u136	That's an interesting question, but it's 1:35 a.m. now, and it's also my colleague's wallet. I'd like to refer to it, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u137	We're not gonna do that. We're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u138	...I'm being cut off by the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u139	I think that is a wonderful subject for another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u140	I'm waiting, but frankly, it's a bit like an opportunity argument to me. This law is there and now this minister finds at once that this is the interpretation of his system responsibility, while we have given a very large part of the care without it and to private health insurers. And there's no problem. I think this is a bit of an opportunity argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u141	Let me do the very short version. Or I don't even have a reference at all, not even the short version. It is true that there are, of course, large differences in the control paradigms between the different laws. You have the Youth Act and the Wmo, which are decentralised and are with local government, but thus with public administration. And you've got the Wlz, where you're actually not so much having a democratically legitimized board of directors make the choices, but you're letting a healthcare firm make the purchasing choices. And you also have the Health Services Act, in which there is another steering paradigm. It is very interesting to keep those reflections together and also to look at what you should want to learn from each other over the systems. This is without prejudice to the fact that it would not be possible for me to leave it at that because it is otherwise regulated by the Health Insurance Act. I believe that I have a good way of dealing with this law, because you have entrusted me with the system of responsibility for youth care and the Wmo. And so I have to settle it this way, not so much in principle, but just practical. If you ask me to assume that responsibility, I must also have an instrument to fulfil that responsibility. Then we get to the last block. That's the cube of varia. In my view, the substantive question put by Mrs Tielen on the waiting lists is actually the most important question in it. Mrs Bergkamp asked the same question. When I came here, there was a huge pile of motions on the waiting lists waiting for me; a huge waiting list of motions. I said at the time: boys, what's being ordered is extremely complicated to settle. Because that would actually mean that we would make one huge Excel file of everything that was going on in the regions at the time. I said at the time: I just can't live up to that. Is it effective? No, it's not. Take a look back at what we once tried under Rouvoet, still in the time of the provincial youth care. There was also a very intense debate on the waiting lists. That was 2008, 2009, something like that. At that time, there was an incredible amount of paperwork on registering and tracking and monitoring waiting lists, but I do not believe that one child has ever had any prior concern about it. So it's just not very effective to do it that way. What are we supposed to do? We must ensure that we make it transparent at that level and that we provide it with an approach where it also needs to be addressed. I can't take care of Jan, Piet or Klaas tomorrow who is on a waiting list in South Limburg. That's not how it works. Well, it might still be possible, but it just doesn't work that way, because we deliberately decentralised it. So we have to make final agreements in the regions. And yes, they are made. Are they super tight in all regions? I've got to go check that out. We've set up the Youth Support Team. One of the tasks of that team is to assess whether the waiting list approach in a given region is adequate and how it is monitored. Can they even do that? Do they have it well enough in sight? Did they also give themselves the contractual possibilities to send on the waiting lists? Those are all things we need to find out when that support team is active. We would have that on January 1st up and running. I think that this will be possible in part, but I do not think that that means that I have a clear picture of it in mid-January, because of course they must also get away from the side. But that's what that support team is gonna do. Administrative arrangements have been made for agreements to be concluded in each region. I also know that these agreements are being made, but if you really ask me what the quality of this final approach is, I cannot say enough at the moment, because it is precisely in the course of next year that this should be seen. A second element is a social map in each region, so that the referee also knows what was bought in. We have called that'social card', but it is actually a question of choosing a waiting list institution sometimes, because people do not know that you can also get the same type of care from three other bought institutions. This is the case, for example, with referrals from general practitioners. They are used to referring to institutions with which they simply have good experiences and good cooperation, not always knowing that the palette is even wider than that and that you could choose even more. Pointers must therefore know what they have to choose. A third element is the expert team in each region. That's what Mrs. Tielen is asking for. Yeah, that's what happens in every region. Well, we did test that. The quality of one expert team is even better and in one region it is a bit further than in the other, but it is available in each region. In each region there must be agreements on perseverance. That's settled, too. Each region must have a learning table for complex cases. These are the requirements that we want to achieve in each region. When Mrs Bergkamp asks how transparency is regulated, I answer: well, so. If you need an approach in the region, it should at least be transparent for the municipalities about the waiting lists. Municipal councils are also asking for this. So yes, that transparency should actually be part of the waiting list approach in every region. Does this mean I'm going to make a nationwide sum of what's going on? No, I'm not gonna do that because I can't and because it's not useful. That's a point, Mr. Chairman. I think that would have really come to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u142	I'll take a look at the members, see if that's true. Mrs. Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u143	Let's talk about the waiting lists. Respect for the fact that it cannot be known by mid-January whether the support team has seen it everywhere, but "in the course of next year" I find quite frankly too non-binding. My question to the Minister is: in what time, in what short term, could the Minister be able to hear back from the support team whether it is actually taking steps?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u144	I think this is really a couple of months in 2019. I understand that you say that you find "in the course of 2019" too easy, but I think that in the next progress report I should give the young people, who will come in May, as clear as possible. Then we really have time to go to the regions not one, two or, if necessary, even three times to get it done. In the next progress report I can best sketch the picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u145	I asked another question about the regulatory burden and two of my motions to see how the regulatory burden can be dealt with for small organisations andzzp'ers. The Minister mentioned transparency of waiting lists. I note from the experience of people from practice that references are becoming increasingly difficult because there is a shortage of staff. There are a lot of vacancies. It is somewhat a side issue, but when it comes to transparency and waiting lists, it is becoming increasingly difficult for pointers to find the right point of contact.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u146	That's a lot of different questions to ask each other. An answer will be given. The answer is: we must return to it in writing. We were just in the suspension preparing the response. Then we didn't like the answer very much. That's why we took it out of the pile and said, "Make a new one, because before I'm ready, you've made a new one." But we must now return to it in writing. Well, that's just the way it is. What you call and the way you describe it is exactly my hesitation to go along with "just make those waiting lists transparent for the whole." When it comes to waiting lists, the background is so multiform. For example, it has to do with contract management, where you just have to steer tighter. It has to do, for example, with staff who are not available. A waiting list approach cannot suddenly open a can of staff. It also has to do with institutions that think: well, why should I refer to another institution; I think it's okay if I have a working stock for the coming time. That sounds unkind, but it's real. Waiting lists can also come because, for example, the referee knows mostly about those two institutions that provide that type of care, but does not actually have the retina that the municipality has already contracted two other providers. In short, the background of waiting lists is so diverse that making a big Excel doesn't really make much sense. What really matters is that in the meantime, even if someone has to wait a little longer until the proper treatment actually starts, you can arrange bridging care. For that, the municipality is equally responsible. The referee is also responsible for this. In short, here is the complexity. That's it. That's it. We really need to learn very much from those regions that are getting a better grip on this and ensure that other regions are working in this way too. That's exactly what I'm trying to accomplish with that support team. So I can report later on which regions have a waiting list approach and actually be able to be transparent about waiting lists and how they send them, and how the expert team works. I can get a picture of all those elements from the waiting list approach. But a "one size fits all" approach is not possible. It just can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u147	I had missed one more question in the block of reducing administrative implementation costs. I think a lot of good things have been put in place. It's a relevant problem. Relevant actions have been taken. But I would also like to know what the expected outcome will be. What is the specific objective? What can we say to all those people I always talk to who say: that administrative burden is too high? Then I can say: at least we have passed a law that can reduce it. But what promise, I would almost say, can the Minister make when it comes to what we have achieved in a year's time?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u148	When it comes to professionals and what they experience, I would be modest about the impact of this bill. This legislative proposal focuses on the secondary processes, for example invoicing and data exchange in order to obtain invoicing. So I would be careful to promise to an average youth care worker who says "I'm 30% to 40% of my time on file-forming": yes, but we now have a law that's going to change your world tomorrow. Because that's not gonna happen for him. It's gonna take something else. That is why I started by saying that this is a real step, but not a panacea, in relation to those two aspects of regional cooperation and administrative burdens. As far as the administrative burden is concerned, we need to do all the other things. For professionals, for example, I believe most of all in just a regional approach very close to home, where you have a scraping session: what do you most run into, where do you want to go tomorrow, why can't you, who is really bothering, and how can we help to get rid of that? I would like to make a more precise appointment with municipalities, although I am already telling you a bit about what our administrative consultation will be about next week. We are actually already in the starting blocks to start with this at the beginning of next year. If you're referring to a quantitative objective, I'm not going to commit it to this law. I am going to be modest in the promises about what this actually means to individual professionals, because I think we can and should do so much more for them in reducing administrative burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u149	Thank you. I look at the members to see if anyone needs a second term. Mr Hijink, Mr Peters, Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Tielen did not, Mrs Bergkamp did. That is fine of course, but then I know a little bit how many more Members are speaking. I understand you're the only one.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, the Minister is still talking about energy, so it's such a shame to close up like this. I thank the Minister for his reply, and I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the amendment of the Youth Act and the Social Support Act 2015 and the Health Insurance Act related to the maintenance of the possibility of requiring municipalities to cooperate in exceptional cases and in relation to the reduction of implementation costs, new delegation provisions are introduced to enforce co-operation between municipalities;]] [[Whereas such permanent delegation provisions in a decentralised system are significant means;]] [[considers that these delegation provisions and the possible preventive effect of these delegation provisions should be properly evaluated in a decentralised system;]] [[calls on the Government to pay explicit attention to the functioning of the delegation provisions, including preventively, in a decentralised system, in the planned evaluations of the Youth Act and Wmo 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bergkamp, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Tielen and Mr Peters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34857-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u151	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u152	Thank you. No more regrets? Then I'll look at the minister; maybe he can answer right away. I would also like to ask him if he can give an appreciation of the amendment to item No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u153	Mr. President, can you give me a hint?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u154	That amendment concerns the obligation of municipalities to contract all certified institutions and youth care providers, unless there are serious objections. The apotheosis of the evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u155	First the motion. Of course it's fine. I think it makes sense to do it that way. We had, of course, a debate about whether you should have it automatically experimented or whether you should simply evaluate it. If you really don't need it, you can get it out of the law. I think it makes sense to simply include this motion in the evaluation we will do anyway. I would therefore like to leave this motion to the House. Then there is the amendment to item No. 11. We didn't talk about that. You did mention this in your text, but I did not mention it in my reply, although it was on the sidelines. Because this is actually a kind of mandatory open house, but for the whole of the Netherlands. That actually means that all providers who could jump over a certain bar will always get a contract automatically. Road contract freedom of the municipalities and away possibility of the municipalities to make choices in the quality of their provider; only the possibility not to choose a provider if it is really proven to be below the standards. I would find this such a pity and such a step backwards, and I would find it particularly vulnerable to the quality of youth care. This leads to such a huge fragmentation. I wouldn't be in such a position to really dissuade this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u156	This brings you to the end of your second-term reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I liked it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u158	I would like to thank you very much for your commitment and enthusiasm, as well as the Members for their perseverance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-tweedekamer-30.u159	I'm gonna close this meeting nicely.
