ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the vote on the adoption of the Convention between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and Ukraine on international legal cooperation in relation to crimes related to the destruction of Malaysia Airlines' MH17 flight on 17 July 2014 (34915) and the provisions related to the prosecution and trial in the Netherlands of criminal offences related to the destruction of Malaysia Airlines flight MH17 on 17 July 2014 (34916).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. Doing justice to the victims and relatives is the main objective of the cabinet in everything related to MH17. It's about getting the real story up. Why exactly did it go wrong? How can we prevent that in the future? Who's actually responsible for shooting the Buck? Is it intentional or stupid bad luck? Justice must be seen to be done; justice must not only be confessed by mouth. For next of kin and for all of us, it is important that we see justice being applied. This is why public criminal proceedings are ideally suited. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group appreciates the way in which the cabinet handles this. This applies not only to state liability towards the Russian Federation, as we discussed here last week, but also to the issue we are discussing today: the prosecution system that can be applied as suspects of the MH17 disaster must be brought to justice. The treaty before us is a good treaty; the choice of the Dutch legal system is a clear, legally certain choice; and the involvement by videoconference of undeliverable suspects is a useful novelty. We are not talking today about the chances of this being brought to justice, but the fact that we are collectively working here to pave the way for a fair public trial is part of that quest for justice. The CDA Group will therefore vote in favour of this legislation. It is good that we give the JIT and in particular the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office clarity. But, Mr. Chairman, there's one more knot in my stomach, and that's what I want to talk to you about. We must be aware that what we agree with Ukraine will, in a sense, guide what we agree with other countries at a later date. Until recently, I said such a sentence murmuringly, if I were to refer to the Russian Federation, but since the JIT gave its last presentation, we can rest assured that, when ratifying this treaty, we will look at what that means for any subsequent prosecution of Russian suspects. We do not have to expect that we will ever be able to agree more than this with the Russian Federation. In the written round, questions were asked by the CDA and were answered generously and in substance by the Cabinet, for which thanks. In that respect, once again, nothing stands in the way of the adoption of these laws. There is one point, however, and that is the concern that suspects themselves are in control of not having to answer publicly. That's what the knot in the stomach is about. The government agreement states that suspects in custody will be required to attend the hearing. Their right of silence will not be affected, but will not be allowed to remain away from a courtroom where the criminal case is being dealt with. When victims read their victim statement, it helps when the suspect's seat is filled and they don't talk to an absentee. In the search for justice and public justice, it is very important for survivors to listen to the charges and be presented with the evidence, who are held responsible for the drama of MH17. Even now, the mandatory presence of the defendant is common in Dutch criminal law. In my questions to the cabinet, I mistakenly referred to the article that imposes that obligation in minors' cases, but Articles 258 and 278 of the Code of Criminal Procedure already offer that option in adult criminal law and it is very frequently used. For the CDA Group, the presence of the suspect in the hearing is an important point, especially when we talk about suspects who are actually and directly involved in firing that rocket after the presentation of the JIT. We respect Ukraine's decision not to extradite its own nationals. We are therefore extremely pleased with the option offered to import suspects into Dutch criminal law by video conference. What we are a little less happy about is that the choice lies to a large extent with those suspects themselves. The cabinet indicates that international treaties make it impossible to deal with this differently. Reference is made to the second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters (hereinafter referred to as "the Convention'), a protocol which has not been ratified by Russia as well as the EU Legal Assistance Agreement and the EU Directive on the European Investigation Order. All these arrangements would require the consent of the suspect to apply videoconferencing. Is that really true? I went into it a little further and I discovered that there are two countries in Europe that allow videoconferencing also in the context of criminal proceedings, namely Italy and Russia. Russia because it is such a large country and Italy because especially mafia suspects are difficult to transport to court. In Russia, it is possible to allow a suspect to participate in a trial in certain offences via videoconferencing; see Article 241 of the Russian Criminal Code. It is only possible if a suspect is in custody or in prison and it can be applied to serious crimes, but the judge and not the suspect has a decisive voice in this. So the judge can force a suspect. The same applies in Italy. There is even a ruling by the European Court of Human Rights, Marcello Viola versus Italy, in which the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg agrees that videoconferencing is compulsory and that this is in line with the ECHR. The statement I am making is that these international bans, as the cabinet says, may not be as absolute as they are now being put forward. Especially in view of what we are heading for, perhaps bringing Russian suspects to justice, I think it is important to highlight that point here. Once again, the CDA Group believes that it is very important to ratify this treaty with Ukraine now. Let us also be realistic: the conclusion of treaties is not a process that you can and must easily disrupt or break open, and it is now necessary for the further investigation and prosecution process to provide that clarity. Nevertheless, my question to the Minister is whether he would like to reflect again on that knot in my stomach. Is it not possible, given possible agreements to be concluded in the future and also in the light of the points I have raised, to clarify this point and to make things possible in the future that may not be possible at this time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you. Mr Van Nispen has another question, Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u5	My question is actually about another point, about something that stayed a little behind last week's debate. In my opinion, Mr Van Dam was right to ask a question about this. We received a letter yesterday, which deals with the possible liability of Ukraine. "It's not out of the question," it's said. Last week's debate was on Russia's liability. Of course, questions have been asked about this, good questions as far as I am concerned. In yesterday's letter, the cabinet actually says three things. 1. The Netherlands does not exclude any legal option. 2. At the moment, there is no legally convincing evidence. But 3. is: that will not be investigated either. How does Mr Van Dam view yesterday's letter? What is his opinion on yesterday's letter sent to the Chamber by the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u6	I read that letter, too. I can't deny that I have questions about that letter. Just, I don't really feel like going into that right now. I would like to explain that. The letter was sent by Minister Blok. I see someone sitting here who is not very similar to that minister. I find it complicated to start this discussion now. The second point is that the letter did not arrive until yesterday. Today we are discussing the subject of the Treaty. I myself am comfortable to discuss the issues relating to the MH17 at the time they are discussed. So I understand your question and I am also willing to discuss it at another time, but I would prefer not to do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u8	Mr. Chairman. The horrible events of summer 2014 are still clear on everyone's retina and will always remain so. 298 people died taking down flight MH17. Also for the SP, from the very beginning, it has insisted that the truth will be found out: how could this happen, who did this and who is responsible for it? And the guilty will have to be punished. Truth finding should eventually lead to the detection and prosecution of the perpetrators. Justice must have its course. My impression is also that the Joint Investigation Team, in which the Public Prosecutor is working with other countries, is getting closer and closer to the truth. One step at a time. The compliments to all those who are working on this difficult task. That is also very important for the next of kin. I, too, respect the patience they necessarily have. The treaty with Ukraine is part of the effort to bring the perpetrators to justice, but unfortunately that will not be easy. Ukraine has a constitutional ban on the extradition of its own nationals and is not prepared to amend the Constitution for this purpose. This may conflict with the decision taken earlier, namely that persecution and trial would take place in the Netherlands and under Dutch law. For this reason, it is right to opt for a contract, and according to the SP, this is right to include the trial by video link in the Convention. In the course of the written round, we asked questions about, among other things, the assistance provided by lawyers and the use of the English language, but they were answered with satisfaction. Is there perhaps more to be said about the physical location in the Netherlands for a possible MH17 trial? The Chamber would be briefed on this, which we read in the written preparation. The SP has always said that we believe that every country should cooperate in truth finding and justice. We therefore welcome the Treaty with Ukraine, but we have already raised the question of why we should not also conclude a similar treaty with Russia. All the more so now that the findings of the JIT are known. No sooner has it been pointed so explicitly and directly to Russia as guilty of this horrific death of 298 innocent people. Why should these findings of the JIT not be sufficient reason to take the step to conclude the same bilateral treaty with Russia as with Ukraine, including agreements on hearing suspects via video connection and taking over criminal proceedings, for a possible prosecution of Russian nationals in the MH17 case? According to the SP, therefore, those findings of the JIT give rise to an explicit attempt to conclude such a treaty with Russia. Has that been tried yet? If not, why not? Has there been a clear "no" from the Russian side? How does the Minister assess the possibilities for such a treaty? I think that is relevant, precisely because the new findings of the JIT point to Russia as clearly as possible, and with that to Russians. I would like a comprehensive response to this point. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the point I have just raised with Mr Van Dam. It is not formally on the agenda, because it is about the treaty and the implementing law. But last week's debate specifically stated that we will return to that. A letter also came yesterday. So I think I will have to ask a question about this today, namely that procedure of making Russia liable. Last week's debate left the answer as far as I am concerned about Ukraine unclear. Because there is certainly something to blame for Ukraine as well. The OVV report shows that Ukraine should have closed down its airspace. Last week, the Foreign Minister always referred to the Joint Investigation Team, the JIT. We should wait for progress in this area. But last week there was a request from the Minister of Justice and Security. When it appeared that the JIT of course has an independent research role, but that the primary task of the JIT is still aimed at detection and prosecution. Of course. The search for those responsible: who pulled the trigger and who gave the instructions? And it is true, I ask the Minister, that the task of JIT is not to investigate Ukraine's responsibilities around keeping the airspace open, in the light of possible liability? I think it is all the more not obvious, because Ukraine itself is part of the JIT. Therefore, once again the question: what will the Netherlands do to explore the possibilities or to explore Ukraine's liability? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u10	Mr. Chairman. Last week we talked about the long-awaited breakthrough in the search for those responsible in the tragedy with MH17. The Netherlands and Australia held Russia liable for its part in bringing down the flight MH17. As far as I am concerned, that led to great appreciation in this Chamber. Today we are talking about an additional, but I think just as important, aspect, the persecution and trial of the perpetrators in the Netherlands, which, in everyone's hope, in this Chamber and beyond, will lead to the punishment of the guilty and justice for the victims and the survivors. Apart from the treaty we are discussing today, I would also like to talk about the need to conclude a similar treaty with Russia, about the wider context of the criminal investigation, about the question of the location of the hearing, because a court has already been appointed, but there is no courtroom yet and about some other agreements. Mr. Chairman. I want to start with the road to justice. The road to justice is long, but this does not stop us from moving at certain points in the process, so that when one part of the process is finished, we do not find ourselves waiting for the other part. I am referring, of course, to the fact that Mr Westerbeke of the JIT has said that this is the final phase of the investigation. That leads to hope, which makes us expect, that, in the foreseeable future, there will be names and numbers of suspects who have either fired this Buk rocket or commissioned it. Mr. Chairman. We do not know when the prosecution will take place, but it seems obvious to me that, if this happens, all the facilities will be arranged for that purpose. I've seen in the media that some people are worried that we're gonna have a courtroom without suspects. I'd like to turn it around: I'd rather not have suspects without a court of law later. Hence my question: what is the situation with this courtroom where this criminal trial is going to take place? Minister Blok indicated in September last year that the trial is being conducted before the court in The Hague. May I assume, then, that the seat will be in The Hague? Why have we been waiting nine months for that exact location to be determined? I understand very well that the list of requirements for such a location is very long. It is about interpreters, the space for international media, facilities to allow survivors to be digitally present either physically or via the Internet, and sufficient security. I admit immediately that this is complex but I can also imagine that the municipality of The Hague has quite a bit of experience in finding these kinds of locations. I cannot imagine that there would be no location in The Hague that meets these requirements. So my question to the Minister is why it is taking so long and when we will finally be able to meet that seat, which I expect will be in The Hague. I'd like to see that when the JIT is ready for prosecution, that courthouse is ready. My second point, and that is the point I raised in the debate last week and what Mr Van Nispen just did, is about the need to conclude a treaty similar to the one we are discussing today with Russia. I think it is very good that the Netherlands has concluded this treaty with Ukraine, but at the same time we see that the network around Russia is starting to close. The D.A.'s office is making a lot of progress in finding out the identity of the possible offenders. I quote Westerbeke: "These perps have different nationalities." I think we don't have to be rocket scientists to assume that this is probably Russian nationality next to Ukrainian nationality. This brings me to the question that I believe is still relevant: why not conclude such a treaty with Russia? Minister Grapperhaus has already said something about this, but I think it is important to ask again because I see very clearly the reason for this treaty with Ukraine, but I also see it for a treaty with Russia. I don't really see the difference between those two cases. So perhaps this Minister could elaborate on that. Then the treaty itself. I would like to say that it is a good thing that this treaty is in place. One thing colleagues have not done yet, but what I would like to do is to say that this is also worth complimenting Ukraine. During this whole process of recovering the remains of the victims and transferring the investigation into the deed and criminal investigation, Ukraine has done quite a lot which is not in accordance with international legal traditions to be for the sake of the Netherlands. This treaty is once again a sign of goodwill. Apart from all the things we can say about the closure of airspace on that point, I do share the concerns of my fellow Members, Mr President, that we should be grateful to Ukraine for that. Then there is the treaty itself, which I have a few questions about, regardless of the fact that I support the commitment of the treaty. It is now possible to hear suspects and witnesses using a video conference. I think that is an elegant solution to Ukraine's own constitutional obligation, but I share with colleagues the frustration that if suspects want to refuse, they can still refuse to sit behind that camera. The cabinet says that unfortunately this cannot be done otherwise, that this has to do with, for example, the second additional protocol, which the CDA has already referred to, but it remains frustrating. I can very well imagine that the next of kin would like to see suspects listening to the charges against them and perhaps even to the contributions of next of kin, depending on how that process goes. This minister writes that a witness or suspect under Ukrainian law may be forced, if necessary, to appear with the help of the strong arm. How exactly does this work? Isn't it worth investigating if it's still possible to force suspects to appear in front of the camera? That still means they can keep quiet, which is the most frustrating thing you can have, but at least they're in the picture. The second question I would like to ask is about the execution of a sentence when suspects from Ukraine would be tried. It is stated that the penalty can be adjusted to Ukrainian law. I have the question as to whether this could also mean that penalties would be lower than those imposed by the Dutch court. That seems to me to be an undesirable effect. I think it would be good to receive a reassuring answer to that. Who determines the conditions under which the penalty will be adjusted in Ukraine? (NL) Mr President, all in all, on this point: the way in which the defendants will be assisted in court. They will be assisted under this treaty by a lawyer in both Ukraine and the Dutch courtroom. I wonder if this could lead to confusion and delay. Mr President, I would like to make a few points about this, but I see my colleague from the CDA walking towards the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u11	I've been chewing on entering into a criminal treaty with Russia. Perhaps Mr Sjoerdsma can shed further light on how he sees this in relation to the negotiations which the cabinet would like to start with Russia anyway on state liability. How does that relate? I would also very much like to see a treaty with Russia in this area, but I can imagine that, given what the cabinet did last week, that country is not in a position to be directly receptive. Could you perhaps explain from your perspective how this should be done in the matter of prioritisation? I don't see a lot of possibilities in that regard myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u12	This line of argument starts, of course, by stating that it is becoming increasingly likely that there will also be suspects of Russian nationality. That is also what Mr Van Dam said himself: that he might have to talk about this in a murmuring manner, but that he could now speak about it instantly. That's what I'm doing now. I also think that is important because we first found that this Buk missile came from Russian territory, then was fired from a field controlled by pro-Russian rebels and then returned to Russian territory. That was already a strong indication that there have probably been people with Russian nationality involved, although not strong enough, I think, to ask very much about that. In the meantime, it has been established by the JIT that it was a Buk missile from the Russian army. As far as I am concerned, this raises the question of whether or not we should ensure that, in the hypothetical case that there are suspects of Russian nationality, we have organised exactly the same conditions as we have with Ukraine. I'd say so. Then I come to the question you are asking: how are you supposed to fight it operationally for each other, and is that a priority? I would say that we cannot make a distinction in this respect. Anything the Cabinet can do to bring these suspects to justice in the end has the same, supreme, priority. That is also what the cabinet itself said. Three priorities have been set at the very beginning of the process and this is the last priority. Perhaps there are reasons why we should not do this. I am curious about what the Minister is saying about this; I can also be convinced of that, but I wonder more and more as the process progresses.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u13	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u14	Then I come to some other agreements, such as the financial agreements between the JIT countries. The political agreement has now been signed, with agreements on joint communication and how the five countries will assist each other if pressure is exerted. That seems clear to me, but I must also note that the Malaysian Minister for Transport made some remarkable statements last week. Minister Blok has said that it is a new minister, perhaps we should not take this so seriously. Prime Minister Rutte said: I actually expect a new statement to be made. I would like to know from this Minister whether a new statement by Malaysia can indeed be expected and how this matter has been discussed with Malaysia by the cabinet. The same agreement I mentioned, Madam President, also mentioned the financial arrangements between the JIT countries. The so-called grieving nations would also be approached to make a symbolic contribution, the minister said. I'd like to ask him what's going on with this deal. Finally. My party, D66, welcomes the conclusion of this treaty, but I also want to be realistic. We're still a long way from the suspects' identity, and we're still a long way from suspects who are actually in court or who might be able to appear digitally through a beam connection in the courtroom. I think it is extremely important that the Netherlands does everything it can to bring this long-lasting process to a successful conclusion as soon as possible. I wish this Minister every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Oosten on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the VVD is concerned, this is an important step in the preparations that are being made for the criminal process in order, in the end, our deepest desire is to be able to actually come to a prosecution, and preferably, of course, trial and detention of the perpetrators of taking down flight MH17. In fact, Ukraine's full jurisdiction over the Netherlands is being transferred along the road of the Treaty and the legislation now before it. In this way, I understand what you are saying, but let the Minister confirm it once again in his response.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Do I see it right that this treaty has a unique position in the world of international law, because jurisdiction is also transferred in full? A novum, if you like, in this treaty is the video interrogation. Mr Van Dam has already spoken about it. I have a request to make about that. I think it's very good that it was recorded. I also think that it can provide added value. But if, at a later stage, for example, through technical progress, interpretation of treaties or otherwise, that consent requirement could still be released, can I trust that the cabinet will raise this point with the relevant authorities? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. I also ask this because we cannot rule out the fact that this treaty can also serve as an example for future treaties. Speakers have already indicated this to me. I refer, for example, to a treaty with Russia. That brings me to my final question: are there any actual preparations for a similar treaty with Russia? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. My contribution is short, but I want to be clear about it. The VVD fully supports the proposals here and thanks the Minister for the efforts in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u18	Thank you, Mr President. The attack on the MH17 is an unhealing wound for the next of kin. For them, for society and for the international legal order, it is essential to bring to light the true facts and punish the guilty. In the short term, there may not be a view on that justice, but in the end the culprits will be brought to justice. The treaty we are discussing is an important step in this direction. GroenLinks wholeheartedly supports this treaty and the implementing law, as I supported last week's liability and the process through the United Nations. This Convention contributes to the effectiveness of the legal procedures necessary to detect, bring the suspects to justice and ultimately enforce the sentence. This requires a joint international effort. Ideally, ladies and gentlemen, we should, of course, also create a treaty-based basis for cooperation with the Russian authorities. I would like to add my voice to the question to the Minister as to how he sees it, what he does and what he thinks he can do to create that constitutional basis. If I am right, there are extradition treaties with Russia, unlike in the case of Ukraine. So what can these extradition treaties and what can they not mean in this matter, I would like to ask the Minister. GroenLinks naturally supports the cabinet's efforts to bring suspects to justice in person if possible. At the same time, this raises legal problems with countries refusing to extradite their own nationals, as the Ukrainian constitution, for example, regulates. What more can the cabinet do to prevent the unsatisfactory situation that would ultimately prevent suspects from being tried in person or in absentia? The implementing law does not provide for the settlement of claims by injured parties. The Council of Justice has in vain asked the Cabinet for such a special arrangement, if I have understood correctly. I can imagine this wish very well, because the criminal court will soon have the unenviable task of assessing this type of claim, by definition, emotionally heavily loaded. As soon as that assessment results in a disproportionate burden on the criminal proceedings, it may or may not even be possible for the criminal court to declare survivors inadmissible and refer them to the civil national court. We all know that in most cases this will mean years of proceedings and that complex questions of law can be raised, such as the question of which law is applicable and whether the Dutch courts have jurisdiction in all cases. There are undoubtedly more of those complicated questions. This raises the question of whether there should also be provision for a system to establish civil liability, even if it is only to save the next of kin for years of legal hacking. Is the Minister willing and what could he do to save relatives who have dragging civil proceedings and to use them to the maximum extent to settle the claim pending the criminal case? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Finally, I would like to say a few words about yesterday's letter which we were announced in the debate last week about Ukraine's possible share in bringing down the MH17. Indeed, as Mr Van Dam said, this is not formally the subject of this debate, in which we must agree to the treaty, but it is closely related to it as far as I am concerned. Literally, the cabinet says in the letter: There is no legally convincing evidence for successful liability. However, the letter also states that "that's where my question is about "the fact that the JIT is not investigating the issue of whether or not airspace is closed down'. The question is whether this research should not be carried out. Perhaps even more importantly, in previous debates I have also regularly called for attention to be given to the question of what lessons we are drawing from what has gone wrong there. It is still the case that countries dealing with civil war or war can clearly decide whether or not to close the airspace and, if so, to what extent they close the airspace. It seems that it is still the case for airlines to decide whether or not they are flying through that airspace, whether or not they are partly closed. I would like to ask the Minister once again to make an extra effort, to make haste if he considers it necessary with me at least, to change international rules, so that this responsibility can be taken collectively and it is no longer up to individual countries and whether air carriers to decide whether or not to open up airspace and whether or not to use airspace. I'm closing up. One day there will come a time when the panels will slide in Russia, that the pressure will be too high, that the interests will be weighed differently, or that others will be given a more open look. As long as the international community remains united and determined, it is inevitable that this will happen. That is why I would like to repeat what I also said last week: in the end, those responsible will be brought to justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u19	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u20	Madam President. July 17, 2014 is engraved in all of our memories. Then nearly 300 people were killed taking down flight MH17. Those 300 people are surrounded by many family members and friends who, to this day, are confronted with immense grief. Also from this Chamber there has been a great and intense commitment from day one. There have also been talks and debates with the government. There was great consensus on the priorities that were at stake: first, let us do everything possible to get the remains and personal belongings of the victims to the Netherlands, then let us carry out a thorough investigation into what has happened and step three is the prosecution and trial of the perpetrators. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Ojik just used the words "one-minded and determined." I am grateful that successive governments and successive MPs have also sometimes been determined by changes, and that, in view of the enormous impact of these events of 17 July 2014, we want to set the bar very high in terms of the best possible implementation and implementation of those important objectives. That is a good thing. I also understand that it has been far too long for many relatives and that they would much rather, as we all would like to see steps taken earlier. But that it has been a complicated and time-consuming process, fortunately many people also understand. That is why it is a good thing that today we can take another step towards this third priority, the prosecution and trial of the perpetrators. The legislative proposals before us today give legal form to the possibilities for prosecution and trial. The SGP supports the content of these proposals and has a number of questions and comments. Mr. Chairman. The prosecution and trial will take place in the Netherlands and under Dutch law. However, the relationship with the Ukrainian authorities is of great importance. On the positive side, this cooperation has so far been seen as constructive. Mr Sjoerdsma mentioned that too, and I would like to support that. The legislative proposals make it possible for full prosecution and trial to take place in the Netherlands now, but I agree with those who have said: in view of the results of the investigation team involved, there are also Russian suspects in the picture. What about the laws and rules that are now in place if there is also the possibility of prosecution and trial of Russian suspects, I ask the Minister. A difficult point in the whole debate on the legal form was also the fact that there are countries that have a ban on extradition of their own nationals. That was also the case with Ukraine. That prevents their own nationals from being extradited. The SGP considers it an inventive choice that in this particular case the possibilities of that videoconferencing are chosen. I have two more questions about that. First of all, is it now guaranteed that all due diligence requirements, as mentioned by the Council in its case-law, have been met? My second question is in fact in line with what Mr Van Dam has said about the requirement of consent and the knot in the stomach that he felt, and not alone. I would like to wholeheartedly endorse the questions that have been put to the government on this issue. I felt that Mr Van Dam also indicated very carefully and was aware that we cannot say: Minister, why don't you negotiate that treaty again? It is a good thing that we continue with what is now and that is the framework, but at the same time it motivates us to take a clear look at what else is possible for the future in this respect. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a point about the language of instruction. The SGP thinks it is a good starting point that the process takes place entirely in Dutch. This is particularly important for the many Dutch relatives. But of course a good translation is also very important, in view of all the others who are interested, and also for the foreign relatives. On the legal design: Article 5 of the bill with file number 34916 seems to suggest that the full investigation can also take place at the hearing in English. We understand very well that this is not the intention, but would it not be more logical to make more explicit provision in the legislative text for this to be possible only in certain specific areas? We would like to hear the Minister's comments on this point in detail. Mr President, concluding. We fully support the content of these legislative proposals. It is an important step and we hope that it can contribute to justice and justice in this subject for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u21	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now turn to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that the Netherlands, together with the countries affected by the shooting down of flight MH17, is pulling up to determine who is responsible for this. That investigation takes place, as we know, through that international search team, the Joint Investigation Team, the JIT. As a result, it is also a good thing to bring the prosecution and trial of the defendants into one hand. The fact that the countries affected agree on this, and also that the Netherlands can be a suitable country and is even the most appropriate country, is a compliment to the Dutch legal order and magistrate. This means that the whole world will look to the Netherlands to see how we will deal with this persecution and trial. The present treaty and the draft law to give it more substance create the conditions to enable the Netherlands to do well in the prosecution and trial process. The PVV looks forward to this with confidence. Mr. Chairman. The fact that Dutch criminal law will be applied to potential suspects is still worrying on a number of points. I still have a few questions. I am referring first of all to the possibility of conditional release of those who may be sentenced to a custodial sentence for their involvement in taking down flight MH17. The PVV would not like them to be released on parole. I ask the Minister: what are the possibilities to prevent or counter this? I ask him to respond to this point. Then there is the question of trial in the English language. I don't really understand why that is necessary. This is a process under Dutch law and by Dutch judges, and that must therefore also be accessible to the Dutch public. That is to say, even for those in the Netherlands who are not or are not very powerful in English. I therefore believe that it is better to do the whole process in the Dutch language, with all the guarantees for non-Dutch speaking suspects, lawyers and perhaps others that there will also be a translation into another language. I would ask the Minister to explain again why it is necessary to be able to carry out the trial or parts of it in the English language. Then there is the point that a Ukrainian suspect cannot be extradited by Ukraine for trial. That is in their constitution, so we have to take that into account. The government has resolved this in the treaty and also in the current legislation by saying: we will do that questioning of such a suspect by means of videoconferencing. It is a possibility, but it is not the ideal option, because the most ideal possibility is of course that a suspect is present in the Dutch court in front of Dutch judges, so that they can hear and see his reactions. That's always better when he's sitting in front of you than when it has to be done on a television screen. Last year I presented another plan to the Foreign Minister. He was not in favour of it, but I am going to ask what this Minister thinks about it. You might make an appointment with Ukraine to designate a cell in the Netherlands as Ukrainian territory. Then the Ukrainian suspect who was arrested in Ukraine could be transferred to that cell, possibly with Ukrainian judicial escorts, who would then be responsible for the treatment of that suspect, as far as possible in accordance with Ukrainian law. Then the suspect of that cell in the Netherlands, which is Ukrainian territory, could be transferred to the Dutch court, which is going to try him. At the end of the story, the suspect can return to Ukraine to serve his sentence. I tabled a motion for that last year. In the end, I didn't go through with it, because it didn't seem useful to me to possibly enforce it by means of a motion. Because that might at that point lead to delays in the entire preparation of the deal with Ukraine. I didn't want to. However, I am now presenting this construction to the Minister of Security and Justice, because we may also need to talk about a deal with Russia, an agreement or a treaty with Russia. Perhaps it could be taken into account. I would also like to know, but others have already asked what is actually going on with the conclusion of a treaty with Russia. Have any moves been made on that? And if that hasn't happened, does the government still consider it for the future? I see Mr Van Dam is behind the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u23	Yes, I see Mr Van Dam too. Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u24	I think it is very important to know whether we can conclude these laws today in the House of Representatives. Do I have to understand Mr De Roon's remark in such a way that he makes it a condition or not? He's talking about his motion. Is it coming back to life? What's gonna happen? Or can this legislation continue with regard to PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u25	I finally dropped that motion because I did not want any delay in making agreements with Ukraine. Now we are even further in the phase, because those agreements are now in place. Now, of course, I am not going to ask that again, to create delays. That's what I certainly don't want. The fact that I raise this point is only aimed at a possible future similar treaty with Russia. Then perhaps you could try to arrange such a construction with Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u26	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u27	So I want a response from the Minister of Justice and Security, which I just said wrong. In that case, I must mention that, Mr President, the PVV has an uncomfortable feeling that we are now being asked to approve the ratification of a treaty with Ukraine, while, in our view, there is evidence that Ukraine and/or persons of Ukrainian nationality may have some problems. By which I mean that they are or may be partly responsible for what happened to flight MH17. Nevertheless, last week we were told by the Foreign Ministers and Justice and Security Ministers that there is no investigation into the role of Ukraine. Mr. Chairman. I would remind you that in 2014, when it had just happened, the Prime Minister said that the bottom stone had to come up. But now it seems that the two ministers I just mentioned have said to us: "The bottom stone? We're not bringing him up!" I ask the Minister to reflect on this. Mr President, so much for my contribution to the first term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u28	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. I now turn to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u29	Thank you, Madam President. In September last year, the decision was taken to prosecute and bring to justice the suspects involved in taking down flight MH17 in the Netherlands, in accordance with the rules of Dutch criminal law, with the agreement of the other countries of the Joint Investigation Team. This was also supported by the Christian Union. Today we are discussing two legislative proposals that result from this decision: the adoption of the Dutch-Ukraine Convention and the implementing law that goes with it. It's an important step. I hope that this will lead to the punishment of those responsible for taking down the MH17 for what they have done and that this will be done to the victims and their families. I do have a number of questions for the Minister with regard to these legislative proposals. It is most desirable that suspects appear in person. That is also the most direct form of public trial. The Ukrainian Constitution includes a ban on extradition of own nationals. That gets in the way of that. That is why the Treaty provides for the possibility that a suspect who is not extradited may be tried by means of a videoconferencing link. Provided that the requirements for a fair trial are met and it is legitimate, the European Court of Human Rights believes that this is also permitted. For example, the video connection should be of sufficient quality and have no malfunctions and the suspect should be able to consult confidentially with his lawyer. The condition is that the defendant has to agree to it. It can therefore also refuse and thus evade public trial and accountability. That is undesirable and also difficult to digest. I ask the Minister: do we have to accept this now, or does the Minister see any legal means to force suspects to do so, now that according to Ukrainian law, witnesses or suspects can be forced to appear? With regard to implementation. If suspects from Ukraine are tried and convicted, Ukraine can take over the execution of the sentence. In doing so, the penalty can be adjusted to Ukrainian law. Can the Minister indicate whether the penalty level in Ukraine is comparable to that in the Netherlands? Or could it lead to punishments falling out differently, lower? How does the Minister judge that? In the course of the written procedure, the Christian Union called for attention to be paid to the possibilities for survivors to claim claims against offenders. The answer covers the possibilities that apply in the Netherlands, but in this case it is likely that the perpetrators will also be those who are abroad. What are the prospects of next of kin in order to successfully file a claim and obtain redress? The Minister also stated in the reply that the possibility of a fund for survivors of victims of violence would be explored abroad. Can the Minister elaborate on that? Would this include the relatives of the victims of the crash of the MH17? How would the Minister like to shape this fund? Can the Minister say more about the possibilities for survivors who are abroad to exercise their right to speak via a video link? The North Holland court has previously granted a request to exercise the right to speak via a video message. In the light of the report, the Minister states that this is being looked at, but is it not possible to give a clear answer to the question as to whether this is possible or not? So what's in the way of that? Mr. Chairman. Then to Russia. The Netherlands has held Russia liable now that Russia's involvement has been firmly established. It is also very imaginable that perpetrators are Russian. That is why the question of whether such a treaty should also be concluded with Russia is increasingly raised. I agree with the questions raised by colleagues on this subject and I would ask the Minister to answer them in greater detail. I come to a conclusion, Mr President. These legislative proposals can count on the support of the Christian Union. I hope that justice for the victims and next of kin is getting closer and closer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u30	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u31	Thank you, Mr President. The attack on flight MH17 left our country devastated. The next of kin must continue with great sorrow and loss. We talked about this last week when we debated in this Chamber. Today we are actually taking a next step in carrying out our mission, which I appointed last week when the facts were put before the table, to enable research and to ensure that justice can be done. Mr. Chairman. In this context, the Labour Party also supports the legislative proposals that are now before us, because they are indeed a next step in that process. The Labour Party also appreciates the care with which the cabinet operates. The opinion of the Council of State has been taken on board in its entirety. The College of Attorneys General and the Court of Justice have also been consulted and these opinions have also been taken into account. Mr. Chairman. I have two more questions for the Minister. My first question is in line with what Mr Van Dam and colleague Van Ojik have already asked the Minister. Can the Minister once again comment on whether there are really no options other than in absentia condemning suspects if suspects do not agree to a video interview? That doesn't relate to our sense of justice, does it? As Mr Van der Graaf said, we would very much like to see suspects being held accountable, questioned and condemned in absentia does not fit in with that wish that we all have. Can the Minister go into that again? Are you sure there's no other way? My second question concerns the financial aspects of the legal assistance granted to suspects. I read that the Ukrainian authorities are responsible for this and that the Dutch subsidised legal aid is not intended for that purpose. I can, of course, go along with that, but at the same time we should prevent financial aspects from hindering a video-based process. Does the Minister see any way to prevent that? I would like to thank the Minister and his colleagues in the Cabinet for their efforts to bring justice to justice. The Labour Party supports these efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u32	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u33	Yesterday afternoon, Minister Blok sent a letter to the Chamber stating that there will be no investigation into Ukraine's liability for keeping airspace open at the time of the MH17 disaster. How is it possible? On June 7, 2016, Pieter Omtzigt, who has now been removed from this case by the CDA, perhaps because he was too critical, received answers to his questions about Ukraine's missing primary radar images. Those radar images are still missing. Air traffic control has still not been questioned. Why doesn't the Cabinet want to investigate this further? On what basis did the cabinet decide to do this? Can the Minister indicate whether there could possibly be liability for Ukraine for other causes? And can the Minister explain how the treaty we are discussing today has been concluded and what promises have been made to Ukraine in exchange for signature? Madam President. Although this treaty is in itself a step in the right direction, I cannot escape the impression that it seems that a deal has been made: Ukraine agrees to this treaty, we are all going after the Russians and Ukraine itself is starting to dance. Please respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u34	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. This was the end of the first term of office. I look at the Minister: is there a need for a short suspension?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u35	Fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u36	I don't call a short suspension for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u37	I'd like 15 minutes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u38	Then I'll suspend until 12:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u39	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by expressing my thanks to your Chamber for the speed with which these legislative proposals have been dealt with. That is in the interests of all. I do not have to say here what you have said, that this is a terrible tragedy and that this huge loss is hard to comprehend. Then I think that with truth finding and satisfaction we cannot take away that loss, but it is our first duty. That is why, although I have a lot of common ground, I am asking your Chamber to forgive me for going into all the details very carefully so that we have really put things together. This is how important it is. Today we are discussing the ratification of the MH17 Convention and the implementing legislation that is essential for criminal proceedings, the individual criminal responsibility. Last week we discussed the state liability as expressed by the cabinet. That is, of course, another legal issue. You were informed last year about the joint decision of the countries participating in the Joint Investigation Team that the prosecution of suspects will take place in the Netherlands and according to Dutch criminal law. I am grateful that Mr Van Roon has stressed once again that this is an important international recognition of our legal order. A treaty has been concluded with Ukraine and implementing legislation has been drawn up; we are discussing both today. In addition, there are a large number of practical issues relating to preparation. The starting point for the criminal cooperation of the Netherlands and Ukraine are existing multilateral conventions in the field of mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. Indeed, it has already been touched upon by Mr Van Oosten, the MH17 process will be a special process that requires specific adjustments, but the starting point is to keep those adjustments limited so that derogations are made from existing frameworks only if there is no other way. In the bilateral treaty, the Netherlands and Ukraine have made a number of additional arrangements, as you have read. I will briefly mention the most important issues. The transfer of criminal proceedings. It is indeed a very special aspect that another country, Ukraine, transfers its right to prosecute to the Netherlands. We have jurisdiction over this, because we already had it, but that transfer by Ukraine does not call into question that persecution and trial in the Netherlands can include all victims of flight MH17, regardless of their nationality. This was an important condition of Australia and Malaysia in the joint decision of the Joint Investigation Team to allow national prosecution and trial to take place in the Netherlands and under Dutch law. The extradition of suspects is a second important issue. Ukraine will extradite suspects found on its territory to the Netherlands. According to its constitution, Ukraine cannot extradite its own nationals. That is the third point: the trial by means of videoconference. Any suspects of Ukrainian nationality on Ukrainian territory may be tried using a videoconference link. A Dutch judge decides whether the possibility of the videoconference will be used in a case against a suspect, because trial by videoconference is only possible if the defendant agrees. This results from a number of existing international regulations, but also from our own law. You were right to ask questions about this. I will come back to that in a moment. Once a suspect has agreed, the trial in which the suspect has been interrogated using the videoconference as a conflict procedure will therefore fully comply with the requirements of our system of criminal proceedings. A fourth point is the transfer of the enforcement of custodial sentences. The Treaty also lays down arrangements for that transfer. This means that a Ukrainian suspect who was convicted in the Netherlands after the trial will be able to serve his sentence in Ukraine, but this also applies, of course, to suspects from other countries. Good. Then we've indicated the frameworks. These include: the appointment of the court of The Hague as a competent court, the taking over of criminal proceedings in relation to foreigners with permanent residence or residence outside the Netherlands and a regulation for the use of the videoconferencing. Let me now turn to the questions raised by your Members. I'll do it quickly, but with care. First there are a number of general questions. Which court is going to prosecute? So that's the court of The Hague. It is competent not only for communal offences, but also exclusively for international crimes. That makes perfect sense. As a result, the Hague Court has a lot of experience in complex court cases with international aspects. This court is therefore well equipped to try in this case, in this criminal case against the suspects of taking down the flight MH17. A suitable seat location is still being looked at. It can also be located outside The Hague. I expect a decision to be taken on this in the near future. I will inform your Chamber on that short-term plus a few more days. What about the financial arrangements with other grieving nations? It was a question from Mr Sjoerdsma. There will first be agreements made with the countries of the Joint Investigation Team. That is what is being discussed. Afterwards the conversation will be started with the other grieving nations. By the way, Australia has already announced that the money has been reserved to contribute to the costs of this criminal trial in the Netherlands. Mr Van der Staaij and Mr De Roon asked for an explanation of the use of the English language. This is done in parts, but not in everything, of the procedure. It is up to the court to determine which parts of the criminal proceedings will be conducted in the English language. In addition, measures will be taken to ensure that next of kin, media and other interested parties around the world are able to follow the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u40	I just wanted to come back to the courthouse for a moment. One of my concerns was that we did finish the criminal investigation later, but we haven't determined a courthouse location yet. I hear the Minister now saying that we will be clear about this in a few days' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u41	In the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u42	I hear the Minister now saying that we are getting some clarity about this in the short term. Then we'll be clear, not about the trial, but about the location? I'm just gonna ask you to be sure, because that would take away a lot of my concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u43	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u44	Secondly, the Minister says that this would not necessarily be The Hague. It's about the perfect location, let's put it first, but in terms of symbolism, I would like The Hague, an international city of peace and justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u45	I have indicated: in the short term. If that decision has been taken, you will, of course, hear about it a few days after the decision has been taken. Mr Sjoerdsma has quite rightly listed all the criteria that we must observe in the first period; what exactly is a suitable location? That has indeed taken some time, because you have to prepare it thoroughly, but we hope to be out of it soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u46	I just wanted to know if the Minister had finished his explanation of the use of the English language.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u47	I'll take a look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u48	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u49	I wanted to know if you were already ready, I say through the President, with your explanation of the use of the English language.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u50	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u51	Then I still don't understand what kind of situations, in which cases, that might be necessary. Can the Minister explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u52	There may be a situation in which the English language is more appropriate for certain participants in the trial for direct contact in the criminal proceedings, let me put it this way. That may also be in situations where the judge thinks it is wise to summarize something in English briefly, for example in a summary of a requisition held in Dutch. Let me give you just one small example. But again, it's up to the judge to decide. I think that trust in the Dutch judiciary is also great, that it will do so in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u53	I'm still surprised. This is a trial under Dutch law, in a Dutch courtroom. There are a lot of Dutch victims. So it is very obvious to say: it must all be done in Dutch. For other stakeholders who are not powerful in the Dutch language, but want to know what is being said, we have interpreters. The Minister now refers as an example to the requisition. I could imagine that the prosecution would make an English version of that requisition available. That actually makes sense to me. I would ask the Minister to consider determining that language, in a Dutch court, is simply Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u54	That's true in itself. But the judge has the possibility to decide for himself that parts in the English language will or can be done and in which parts that is the case. I have to tell you that in itself this is not very exceptional. This has happened before. I think that in this process, given that there are many relatives from other countries, it makes sense in itself that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u55	Finally, Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u56	Nowadays, there is also a lot of lectures at the universities in the English language. The reports on this subject are not always positive about the skills of professors in the English language. Now I do not want to say anything about the language skills of Dutch judges, but the risk that something will be done or said by them or others that will be misunderstood if there is no interpreter between them is nevertheless present. I find that undesirable and I ask the Minister to reconsider this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u57	I have already said that these interpreters are present and it is the responsibility of the Dutch judge. Mr De Roon also praised the Dutch judge in the first term. I think we all have the confidence that it will deal with this very sharply and well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u58	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u59	Then there was Mr De Roon's question: can conditional release be prevented after a conviction? The current v.i. scheme allows for set-off or adjustment. As is well known, the government is working on a change to the v.i. regime. In the future it will be v.i. must be earned. It is no longer self-evident that the convicts with v.i. Go. Mr Van der Staaij asked whether all the due diligence requirements laid down in the Council's opinion on the case-law were met with regard to the videoconference. For the most part, that is certainly the case. A number of points require practical elaboration and further agreement with Ukraine. We are working hard on that right now. Mrs Van der Graaf asked what is the position of the foreign relatives in the criminal proceedings and what about the question of possible compensation. It is good to bear that in mind, because the position of the next of kin is similar to that of a victim. Victims and survivors have a good position in the Dutch criminal proceedings, including the following rights. They shall be entitled to information on their rights in criminal proceedings and on their conduct. They have the right to be assisted by an attorney, for example during the criminal hearing. They shall have the right to be informed of the procedural documents of interest to the victim. They shall have the right to speak at the hearing and the right to join the criminal proceedings as an injured party in their action for damages. This applies to Dutch survivors, but also to survivors from other countries. Mrs Ploumen asked whether there was any possibility of preventing finance from being in the way of a video conference. There is no reason to assume that finances are going to get in the way of that. Of course, that's well faced. She also asked how we could avoid absenteeism. We're trying to avoid absenteeism. This can be done by ensuring that the suspect is present, but also by allowing a lawyer in the Netherlands to defend him. Furthermore, it has been arranged that the defendant may indeed stand trial by videoconference. I will come back to that question of the videoconference, because many of you do have questions about it. That is why I will come back to it separately, on the basis of the consent requirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u60	Thank you to the Minister for his answers. I shall try again, perhaps even partly on behalf of other colleagues who have asked similar questions. The Minister now repeats what was reported earlier, namely that suspects can be convicted in absentia. But does the Minister really not see any other possibility, other than the option he has just mentioned, to put the suspects in the picture in plain words, so that everyone can take note of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u61	Mr. Chairman. If you and Mrs Ploumen agree, I would like to answer that question at the same time as the questions on the question of the consent requirement for the videoconference. Of course, I would like to say here that it is our intention to have this law, its implementation, in such a way that the defendants also appear before the courts very clearly. That's the point. The point is, the suspects are gonna appear in court. Well, let me just say this. I understand the knot in Mr Van Dam's stomach when it comes to the videoconference and the assent requirement. I also taste that knot in the stomach in the question put by other members of the Chamber, including Mr Van Oosten, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Van Nispen. The problem is this. There are a number of treaties, including a treaty with Ukraine, which lays down certain agreements, such as only trial by videoconference if the defendant agrees to do so and, moreover, not for all crimes. For that reason, it would be very risky if we let go of that consent requirement. That's one. A second is that we would certainly have to wait and see if the Dutch judge would agree at all in the criminal trial itself. Of course, that's not good. We do not want this process to become vulnerable to criticism of the fact that it is not a fair trial. We also have to say to each other, and that is a practical assessment: if you could arrange such a forced video conference with Ukraine, then there is a very good chance that the suspect will come into the picture and not say anything at all, because that point of consent is gone and he does not want to cooperate. Then we're gonna put the horse behind the cart. Then I'd like to go back. I would like to say the following on the basis of that knot in the stomach expressed by the Chamber. I think we should continue with this bill. I would like to return to Mr Van Oosten's suggestion in a letter. That was the point that perhaps there would still be a development of the law somewhere. The statement referred to by Mr Van Dam is from 2007. It's not an Italian pronunciation. That one was taken, too. However, I would like to say that I will be submitting a letter in a few months' time, so that we can go back to this point in detail. I would also like to take up the point raised by Mrs Ploumen in that letter. Then this law is through and we can always look again at whether there are any developments that might make it possible to do a little more. Then we can see if we can get that knot out of the stomach, if we left anything at this point. Then we can definitely get that button out. Of course, I will answer to myself in that letter, but I will also consult those who are considerably specialized on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u62	I think the Minister can read his mind, because I would very much appreciate it. I'm so glad you want to do this. I would also very much appreciate it if you would indeed involve a lawyer from perhaps outside your ministry, because I would also like nothing more than a genuine zero debate on the interpretation or application of this Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u63	I think we should be careful not to continue to emphasise each other now, but then we agree. I think I have also made it clear that what I am going to report to you in that letter is not just my own thoughts, as far as you were already interested, but also really with real expert support. That has already happened, but because we think this is so important, we really want this to be completely scraped out or something like that. Then I hope I have discussed the approval requirement. That's a lot of progress, Madam President. Then there are a number of legal questions, but I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u64	I would like to return to the comments made by the Minister on the possibilities for survivors to claim a claim against perpetrators. He talked about relatives who are abroad. But my question was precisely about what, if the perpetrators who have been tried are abroad, are in the Ukraine, then the prospects are for relatives who are in the Netherlands to get a story on such a perpetrator if they want to claim a claim? A second question I asked was about exploring the fund set up for survivors of victims of violence abroad. I had also asked the Minister to comment on that. How is this designed, what is the Minister thinking about, and does that also apply to the relatives of the victims of the MH17?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u65	That is, of course, an aspect that is not so much emphasised in this law as you know what I mean, because this is very clearly about that treaty between Ukraine and the Netherlands. I think it is a problem that needs an orderly discussion. I would actually suggest that these questions should simply be answered in a single letter to your Chamber. Otherwise, we're gonna go on and on about this forever. I think it's much better to do that with one letter. Then maybe we can talk about this separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u66	One quick question. I understand that the Minister is therefore sending a letter to the Chamber, including at that point where several speakers spoke about it. However, I would like to say that my group also insists that we continue the legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u67	But that's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u68	I suppose that letter... Okay, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u69	I said very clearly: we must continue with this legislative process and this letter, the first letter I promised you. In addition, we must have seen very clearly once again whether that knot remains in the stomach and whether there may be new developments, as Mr Van Oosten himself pointed out, which are not there now but may still be possible in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u70	Just to make sure that I understand correctly: that second letter is about possible claims of next of kin.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u71	Abroad, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u72	Abroad. I had asked the Minister a number of questions about the Council's suggestion for justice to make provision for this in the criminal justice process. Maybe that's not part of the letter after all, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u73	I can say a few things about that. Do you want me to do that right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u74	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u75	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u76	The Dutch criminal proceedings have very good opportunities for dealing with this compensation to victims and survivors. By the way, the next of kin have already received compensation from Malaysia Airlines. If complex civil law issues arise, the criminal court can refer them to the civil court, but they can still make an advance on compensation. I shall come back to the point Mrs Van der Graaf just made. I think it would be wise to explain a number of things in a separate letter, because I think it would be good if next of kin didn't get one sentence about it, but if they really see how it works. What if the Dutch criminal lawman says: so far I can go and no further? Can they do anything with it in Ukraine? Then what can they do there? I would like to explain that in a letter. Then I can take what I've said with me for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u77	I'd love to! Thank you for that, Mr President, to the Minister. I would therefore ask the Minister to give specific consideration to the Council's recommendation on the case-law to make a separate provision. I do not always know all the legal ins and outs, but as far as I can see, the Council's recommendation on the case law has not been taken up. But perhaps the Minister can explain this in the letter. I'd appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u78	Yeah, I will, because there's a good reason for that, too. We'll take it in the letter. Then it's the most organized. There were a number of questions of a legal nature. From the Christian Union, the question was asked: are the penalty measures comparable to those in the Netherlands? The level of punishment in Ukraine is very similar to that in the Netherlands. Mr Van der Staaij asked: what role do the laws play here if there is a Russian suspect? If a suspect were to be identified with Russian nationality, the Netherlands and Russia could cooperate criminally on the basis of a number of international conventions and on the basis of a possible treaty to be concluded with Russia. Then I come to the questions that have been asked. Does the Russian Federation also have a treaty signed? Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u79	However, I would like to touch on the questions I raised about this treaty in the first term, at least if I am correct in saying that the Minister for this part is ready. The minister says that the penalties will be the same every now and then. My question was: can it also be that the penalty rate in Ukraine will be lower, is it desirable and can it be prevented? That was one question that had remained. The second question I will mention in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u80	The penalty measures, as I just said, are similar. This does not mean that in one case the outcome could not be anything different than in the other case, but then we dive into a case in the case of prosecution. To be honest, I don't think I can say anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u81	Then let's stay out of this case. But can I take the Minister's words as a promise to the Chamber that there will be no major differences between Ukraine's punitive measures for certain crimes and the punitive measures applied by the Netherlands? Because I think that would be a bitter pill for everyone. The most important thing is that it seems to me that the main purpose of this Convention is that any suspects of Ukrainian nationality cannot escape their punishment and that this punishment will therefore be of the same kind as the punishment that would be imposed in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u82	I can repeat what I said earlier. The level of punishment in Ukraine is very similar to that in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u83	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u84	I just wanted to come up right now...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u85	Mr. Sjoerdsma, very briefly and finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u86	Absolutely, very briefly. But it would help if the Minister answered the questions, because then I wouldn't have to come forward here and you wouldn't be bothered by me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u87	You're never bothering me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u88	Look! That's what I like to hear. Mr Van Ojik says that I am bothering him, but I know that from Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u89	You're not bothering him either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u90	The second question was about the legal aid that suspects would receive. I understood that it would be both a lawyer in Ukraine and a lawyer here in the Dutch courtroom. My question was whether this could lead to confusion and delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u91	I had that question to answer, but I would like to bring it up. The starting point is that the defendant is entitled to trial representation by a counselor. For an adequate representation of the defendant's rights, a lawyer will be present in Ukraine and one in the courtroom in the Netherlands. They will, of course, have to work together, but from a long time ago in that profession I can tell you that I am confident that this cooperation will go very well. Criminal attorneys are generally people who are very much in favour of their client's interests, if not always. That's what this is all about. I have every confidence in that. Then I come to the question of whether there will also be a treaty with the Russian Federation. There is no reason at the moment, I stress, to discuss the conclusion of a treaty with Russia. There was a specific reason for the conclusion of a treaty with Ukraine, namely the transfer of criminal proceedings. There were no victims with a Russian identity. The MH17 was not brought down above Russian territory. If the development of Russia, I would also like to stress this in the criminal investigation, then the Netherlands is quite ready to discuss this with Russia. That's not new. This has been expressed by the cabinet on many occasions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u92	Mr. Chairman. This is exactly the answer that we have already read in the written preparation for this debate, but of course something has happened since then, for example the Joint Investigation Team's investigation, which for the first time pointed so strongly towards Russia. The minister's still saying it. I may have understood that in the written round, but if he is still saying that there is no reason to do so at the moment, I do not understand very well, I think that many people do not understand it when there can be a moment when a treaty with Russia is being discussed, according to the Minister, that there is a reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u93	Then it is good that I take Mr Van Nispen's question with him in his first term on the distinction between state liability and criminal proceedings. At least that was raised in his question. It seems to me right to stress that prosecuting individuals in criminal proceedings is completely separate from holding another party liable, in this case another state in liability proceedings. Last week we discussed the question of liability. That results from the fact that the JIT presented evidence from my head on Thursday 24 May, 13 days ago, that the cabinet was so clear that there was reason for a civil-law state liability procedure against the Russian Federation, because of their share. That means that a Russian missile installation has been proven to be used for the downing. We are now talking about the criminal liability of individuals. The relevant treaty with Ukraine is now being transposed into law. In the context of this criminal procedure, I repeat that there is currently no reason to conclude such a treaty with the Russian Federation. I have explained the difference in this case, why we do so with Ukraine, but why there is no reason to do so with the Russian Federation. I will spare you the repetition, but once again, the evidence from the JIT that a Russian missile installation has been used is evidence that is part of the criminal proceedings, and which is also useful for that state liability. But that doesn't say anything about individual suspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u94	I do not mind the Minister explaining this again, but I do not believe that anyone here in the Chamber was confused about the distinction between the criminal liability of individuals and state liability. That was not my question either. I would like to talk to the Minister in this way about state liability, because we are still getting an answer as to whether there would be any reason to put Ukraine in a state position. But the question I have just asked the Minister was whether he still does not see any reason to conclude a treaty with Russia. It is not an imaginary fact that several speakers have said, I am not just saying that at some point people with Russian nationality come into the picture, especially after the Joint Investigation Team has pointed so strongly towards Russia. The Minister used that for the procedure of state liability. That's fine, that's what the SP has been very supportive of. The question now arises as to whether, because of the criminal liability of individuals, there is no reason to conclude that treaty with Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u95	I have answered that question in all honor and virtue. I have said that at the moment there is still no reason to do so, please bear in mind my words. I have motivated and justified why that was already the case with Ukraine. That also has to do with the fact that MH17 was shot in Ukrainian airspace, with whom the victims were and with other things. In any case, this has led us to have an interest in bringing Ukraine's criminal proceedings here, so that this Dutch court can prosecute all the victims, from all these different countries. That is a very important issue and that is why we needed that treaty with Ukraine. The fact that we might be able to reach a treaty with the Russian Federation on the transfer of criminal proceedings for individual suspects in the future could be possible, but it is not at the moment. I would like to stress once again that, in my first term in the debate last week, I expressed my great appreciation and admiration for the patience of the next of kin, and I think that it is only in this respect that we should hold on to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u96	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u97	Yes. There was another question from Mr Van Ojik. What is possible under existing treaties with Russia? Like the Netherlands, Russia is a party to several legal aid treaties. That is somewhat in line with Mr Van Nispen's questions, so I think it would be useful to deal with them immediately. Those conventions provide a sufficient basis for co-operation in criminal investigations through requests for legal aid. On that basis, the Joint Investigation Team also cooperates with other countries. I also believe, as I would like to emphasise, that we can expect the Russian Federation to give an adequate response to all requests for legal aid, because I mentioned treaties, but I also mentioned last week United Nations Resolution 2166, which clearly entails the same obligation to cooperate. Then Mr Sjoerdsma had another question about that... No, I already answered that. That was the question about the punishments. Mr Van Oosten asked: do I see the fact that the treaty is in a unique position because of the complete transfer of jurisdiction? In my introduction, I think I have sufficiently indicated that this is a unique treaty. I do not want to say that this would not have happened before in the past, but it really is a very special treaty. Mr De Roon asked if an appointment could be made with Ukraine to make a cell in the Netherlands Ukrainian territory for the purpose of attending the criminal case. I appreciate the search for creative solutions by Mr De Roon, but as mentioned earlier, this solution involves automatic extradition or surrender by Ukraine to the Netherlands, because the suspect of the jurisdiction and territory of Ukraine would be transferred to Dutch jurisdiction on Dutch territory. Or we would get a construction that we would have to pull that cell out of Ukraine through a helicopter, but I also think that there are a number of other objections to it and that it would also be contrary to Ukraine's constitution. Quite apart from the fact that it is also contrary to the Dutch Constitution. As much as I appreciate the creativity, I'm afraid we're not gonna do this. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u98	I had already indicated in the first term that it was not my intention that we should still apply this construction to Ukrainian suspects, because that is currently a crossing station, I think. But I asked the Minister to look into the possibility of discussing such a construction with Russia, if you are to conclude a treaty with Russia in the future. Then I find the Minister's reaction that only if we can bring a Ukrainian cell by helicopter here is funny, but of course that is not the issue. You can simply declare a Dutch cell into Ukrainian territory, just as at the time when the Lockerbie suspects were tried certain locations into Scottish territory, in order to allow the trial of those suspects in the Netherlands. I'm looking for a similar construction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u99	But the Lockerbie construction is a completely different construction and it is not ahead of us in this treaty. Once again, the structure in which the cell becomes Ukrainian territory simply encounters a number of legal objections that I have just explained. I do not think we should repeat that. Again, I appreciate the search for solutions, but... Anyway, I actually wanted to keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u100	I do not think the Minister's explanation of the legal objections is very clear. Of course, if Russia were to say in the future that it still considers it an extradition, then you are done talking. For the rest, however, I do not yet see any legal objections to consider this construction.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u101	You were just talking about Ukraine, now you're saying Russia. So now things are mixed up, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u102	No, it might get mixed up with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u103	You said if Russia objects.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u104	Mr De Roon may clarify what he means.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u105	No, I said this is a crossing station for Ukraine. My question is: can you consider considering this for a future treaty with Russia? If Russia doesn't want that because it still considers it an extradition, then you're done talking. But I have not yet heard any other legal objections. If the Minister says there are, I'd like to hear it. If that is not possible now, I would like to receive a letter setting out clearly what the other legal objections are.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u106	Then I'm gonna read my answer from earlier. It may not have been heard, but I simply said: this solution means automatic extradition or surrender by Ukraine to the Netherlands, including in the case of Russia to the Netherlands, because the suspect of jurisdiction plus territory of Ukraine would be transferred to the jurisdiction and territory of the Netherlands. That's just the case, so that problem is gonna play out. I would now like to announce that I will not make this suggestion if, in a later situation, we would like to reach a similar agreement with another country. I have also referred to constitutional objections from the country concerned, in this case Ukraine, and from the Netherlands. So I really mentioned those arguments. I don't think it's necessary to send a letter about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u107	That's what you said. I'd like to know how much longer you think you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u108	I hope to be busy for a little while. I would like to briefly address the issue of the letter on Ukraine and the question raised by Mr Baudet, which is in fact a follow-up to that. Well, in the letter on Ukraine sent yesterday, it is simply stated that I will not repeat it here on the basis of what information, including the report of the Security Research Council, the Cabinet has concluded that there is currently no legally convincing evidence for a successful state liability statement by Ukraine. At the moment, the cabinet does not consider additional research to be useful. We've talked enough about the position of the JIT in that regard. But it has just been investigated at the moment and if new facts were to come to light, the cabinet could reconsider it; this is in response to Mr De Roon, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Van Nispen. Then there is really an important point, because Mr Baudet...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u109	First Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u110	But this is not an answer to the question I asked. I have just built on yesterday's letter and now the Minister repeats what is in the letter. The Security Research Council has expressly concluded that Ukraine should have closed its airspace earlier. I think the Minister recognizes that, too. Next, the Foreign Minister said in his letter: "The Netherlands does not rule out any legal option. There is currently no legally convincing evidence, but additional research is not necessary either." I don't understand the latter. I don't think you can put those conclusions together like that. So the question I asked in the first term is: what is needed for it? And why does the government not want to carry out a further investigation into this possible liability?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u111	I will take a look anyway, because it has not been said that there is no need for further investigation. It has been said that further research is not considered necessary at the moment. So let's really keep an eye on that. At the moment, the cabinet says: given all the information we have, there is no legally convincing evidence for a successful liability. At the moment, we do not consider that further research is necessary. And the Joint Investigation Team, which I mentioned last week, is focused on the criminal investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u112	Finally, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u113	That is exactly what I said myself in the first term. The cabinet doesn't think there's any need for further investigation right now. I don't hear a reason why I shouldn't. The Minister also says that the Joint Investigation Team does not focus on this, because it focuses on criminal law, the detection and prosecution of potential perpetrators. That's right. All the more so because Ukraine itself is part of that Joint Investigation Team, it is also not logical to refer to that as an argument not to do any more research. So again the question. The Minister is now shaking no, but he was also confusing all kinds of questions. So the question is: why is no further investigation being carried out? The Minister himself brings in the Joint Investigation Team. That focuses on something else and Ukraine is part of it. So the question is: how could further investigation make a useful contribution to the assessment of the possible liability of the State of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u114	A long question. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u115	I always take Mr Van Nispen's questions very seriously and I really do not confuse them, even now. I wanted to report, last week and again today, that the Joint Investigation Team has been ordered to conduct a criminal investigation. That's what they're doing. I said: there is also a great deal of information available on the issue of Ukraine's opening up of airspace. This information leads to the conclusion for the cabinet that there is currently no reason for Ukraine's state liability.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u116	'Cause? Why? That last sentence needs to go further. Right now, there's no reason, because...? Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u117	There's no legally convincing evidence. That's what the Cabinet thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u118	That's what the Cabinet thinks? It's not a question of an opinion or an opinion that you might have on something that still needs to be investigated. There are things that should still be investigated, but there are things that we just know. We know that there was a war zone in Ukraine, namely in the southeast of that country. We know that Klimkin warned our deputy ambassador a few days before this terrible disaster and told us that there were Buk missiles. Apparently, Ukraine knew about those Buk missiles. Why didn't Ukraine close the airspace? That's culpable action. You don't need any more evidence at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u119	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u120	We are now talking about the question raised in that letter yesterday about Ukraine's possible state liability. Of this, the letter lists the information on the basis of which the cabinet says: there is currently insufficient legal evidence for such a state liability. Look, I think it is important, because otherwise we will be in a discussion where perhaps something is not named which Mr Baudet has just wanted to name with his question. Because he asked if a deal was made with Ukraine...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u121	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u122	Perhaps promises have been made to Ukraine? Let us just say this out loud: no promise has been made to Ukraine under the treaty, and there is no deal with Ukraine under the treaty or otherwise, let me make that clear for a moment with regard to the possible legal implications. I want that said out loud, so that elephant is out of the room. So I'm not just talking about this room, I'm talking about it as a metaphor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u123	If such a deal is not concluded, I see no reason why Ukraine should not be held liable. There's no need for legal evidence at all. What legal evidence, as the Minister puts it, should there still be to establish that liability?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u124	Well, look, we're going on a whole different path right now. We are talking today about the treaty with Ukraine and the legislation based on it in the context of criminal prosecution of individuals. The issue of state liability was raised last week. That's about Russia's state liability. If Mr Baudet felt that we should also have another debate following yesterday's letter from the Minister, he should certainly request that debate. I actually thought it was a good opportunity, and I would also like to emphasise this through you to Mr Baudet, that he asked out loud whether there was a promise to Ukraine or a deal with Ukraine. I think I answered that very clearly: no. And then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u125	The relevance of this debate is quite clear. We decide whether we agree to this treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u126	But yesterday's letter on state liability falls outside the scope of this treaty. That's right, I'll ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u127	Technically, that's true, of course, but in the negotiating room...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u128	No, Mr. Baudet, don't talk through it. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u129	If Mr Baudet so wishes, it seems to me that a separate debate can always be held on this subject. But look, for this criminal treaty, I shall say, it seems to Mr Baudet that it is important that it has been said out loud that no deal has been made with Ukraine to bring this treaty about. Well, I think I've answered that clearly by now. It remains to be seen whether Mr Baudet can say: I have that letter and I have proof of my own that it can be legally convincing, or whether research can still be carried out there and there. Then he must ask for a debate on that. Not so much with me, by the way, but with my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u130	That's up to the Chamber. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u131	I have no further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u132	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u133	Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u134	Unlike my colleague, Mr Baudet, as I know he would like to be mentioned, I would unfortunately like to separate the issue of what went wrong when the Ukrainian airspace was closed down, which has gone wrong, from the question of whether there should be state liability. I think the most important thing is that I have also asked the Minister what lessons we have learned. We have been asking that question for almost four years now in every debate on the shooting of MH17. What lessons have been learned regarding the autonomy of countries to decide whether or not to close their airspace, as regards the autonomy of airlines to decide for themselves...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u135	But this is the question you asked in your first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u136	I did. I would like to ask the Minister to take up the issue of airspace, which is why I say that, Madam President, not just to link it to the question of whether there should be state liability. It is indeed a much broader issue, from which we will have to learn a lot of lessons.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u137	That's what you said. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u138	I think it is quite right to raise this question. That's one. Two. It is not, with all due respect, a question that should be discussed in this debate. I must also say in all honesty that I think this is a question in which my colleague from IenW should perhaps be at the forefront and I should be a bit in the sidecar. However, I would like to check with the honourable Member whether it is possible to write a letter to your Chamber on this matter and to debate it in connection with it. Shall we...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u139	Okay, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u140	Through you, I'll take a look at Mr Van Ojik, I'll say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u141	Mr Van Ojik, do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u142	I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u143	That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u144	I mean, but I'm looking around, I've answered all the questions by now. If it isn't then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u145	Mr. Sjoerdsma?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u146	I asked another question about the role of Malaysia and then specifically about two issues. One. The Minister of Transport there seemed to distance himself from the JIT conclusions and also from the consequences of the Dutch cabinet. Two. Prime Minister Rutte said to expect a new statement from Malaysia in the short term. I wonder if that statement is still coming and what the cabinet is doing to provoke such a statement to the Malaysians.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u147	Short response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u148	The Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Malaysia has just issued a statement on behalf of the Minister for Transport before I come into this debate. In it, Malaysia confirms that it is fully committed to the Joint Investigation Team and that it is determined to ask those responsible for bringing down MH17. The new Malaysian government also indicates that they will carefully examine the conclusions of the Joint Investigation Team. We welcome as a cabinet that reaffirms the full involvement of Malaysia and its close cooperation. The cabinet is also in discussion with Malaysia about the possibility of joining Russia's liability. I can't comment on that. I would like to stress that, of course, each country must make its own reflections on this issue. I have the press release in my hands here by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u149	I have asked for attention to be paid to the right to speak of relatives who are abroad. I want to double-check...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u150	It's in the letter, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u151	It'll come back in the letter? Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u152	That's really my intention. That all comes back to me in the letter. I would like to dwell on the position of next of kin. If I may, Mr President, I still have a small postscript for Mr Van Ojik on airspace. I haven't been complete. I understand that following the findings of the OVV, the Security Research Council, the Minister and the Secretary of State of IenW, the necessary measures have been proposed at ICAO level, internationally. I understand that your Chamber has been informed of this earlier. What I could do might be to tell you exactly where, but it must have been in a letter or in a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u153	As far as I know, therefore, I would appreciate it if the Minister would update the Dutch and other efforts in ICAO have not yet led to a de facto change in the regime in force. If I have that wrong, which I sincerely hope, I am happy to hear. I'd appreciate it. I am aware of what the Minister has just said, but I would appreciate that update.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u154	An update? Yeah, it's been promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u155	Thank you. I'll take a look around. Is there a need for a second term? Not to everyone. Then I'll just go off the list. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u156	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for all the answers he has given. I would also like to thank my colleagues, certainly some of them, for their shared support on the subject on which I have a knot in my stomach. I welcome the commitment made by the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the treaty with Ukraine. A number of colleagues called for a similar treaty with Russia to be speeded up. I would like to say a few words about that. In the end, the whole operation we expect from the cabinet is a bit like playing organ: you will have to operate the device with both your hands and your feet in order to get a decent sound out of it. To this end, I also think it is a somewhat illusory option to make a huge push for a treaty on criminal law. I can imagine that, in the difficult relationship with Russia, this is part of the negotiations which the cabinet is seeking to deal with the issue of state liability. I think that the earlier wording "when the Public Prosecutor wants such a treaty to be drawn up" was a good wording. My third comment concerns the location. Mr Sjoerdsma has raised this issue. I have to say that The Hague is an option, but Schiphol, the place where it all started, could also very well be an option. Life is a circle, and maybe in this case there's no way to rule out a lawsuit at Schiphol. I would like to leave it to the Minister to make a choice, taking into account all the difficult factors that exist, but there are more options conceivable. Finally, I come to the letter discussed by several colleagues, including Mr Van Nispen in the first term. The CDA's reaction to this leaves no misunderstanding: I too see some questions and things to discuss in the letter, but, as I have said, I think it would be wise to do so with the Foreign Minister. I will certainly raise the question of how we can do this in an appropriate way at some procedural meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u157	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u158	The treaty with Ukraine is a good step. It is a prerequisite that should contribute to the prosecution and trial of suspects of taking down MH17. We can only express the hope that the Joint Investigation Team will continue to make progress in the interests of truth finding and justice. The SP therefore wholeheartedly supports this. I have asked a question about a similar treaty with Russia in the future. According to the Minister, there's no reason for that right now. I have said that I was surprised in the light of the findings of the Joint Investigation Team. I can only appeal here to the Minister to try to do so as soon as possible and as soon as necessary. In this respect, I do trust the Minister's assessment. Finally, I come to the question of Ukraine's liability, which we wish to examine. Ukraine should have closed down its airspace, according to the Security Research Council. The cabinet doesn't rule out an option. At present, it does not see sufficient legal evidence for a successful liability, but does not consider that additional investigation is necessary. I do not think the Minister is clear about this either. However, we are in favour of a further investigation. So we are not arguing for liability now. I do not think it is up to me to judge it now or to pronounce it on motion, but because of the uncertainties that exist today, I do think that further research is desirable. I call upon the cabinet to do so in the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that following the presentation of new facts by the Joint Investigation Team, the Russian Federation has been held liable for its share in taking down flight MH17;]] [[Considering that in 2015 the Security Research Council already concluded that Ukraine should have closed its airspace prior to taking down flight MHI7 and therefore failed;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that further investigation is carried out into Ukraine's failure to fully close its airspace, in light of Ukraine's possible state liability,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34915-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u159	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his answers and, on behalf of my group, D66, I would very much like to give the support for the treaties and, of course, for this legislative proposal. I think it's an incredibly important piece of the great puzzle that this cabinet lays down to eventually come to justice. Let us hope that it is then possible in the First Chamber to proceed quickly. I would also like to thank the Minister for his commitment to a letter on the possibilities of obtaining suspects in Ukraine with or without coercion for a video connection and to see if there are any possibilities. I do, however, share the view of other colleagues that this should not in any way lead to any delay in this legislation. Mr. Chairman. About the seat location: it is good that it arrives as soon as possible. I think that's important. I hope we will not have to wait much longer for that. I have two more questions. The first is about the possible treaty with Russia. It doesn't sit right with me. I have heard the Minister's explanation and I have read it before. I also understand some of the considerations. At the same time, it is uncomfortable to see that with some common sense the arrows are now pointing to Moscow, to a Russian nationality, and that we are not making any preparations to look at it. The second is about state liability. I'm a little confused right now. Yesterday Mr Baudet said that I see that he is already gone, and that the evidence was not irrefutable, but that the state's liability had to be dropped. Now, according to the cabinet, the evidence was not incontrovertible, but Mr Baudet found it irrefutable again. It's getting a little confusing. I think it is important for this Minister to explain why that research is not necessary, why he does not think that research is necessary, because I do share a bit of Mr Van Nispen's logic that the question of why is now a little lacking. When it comes to other sensitivities or prioritising the criminal trial, I am right next to and behind the Minister, but it must be clear how and why this consideration came about. Mr President, I shall leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u160	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his answers. My group also supports the ratification of the Convention and the law for further implementation. Mr. Chairman. I do have a certain degree of discontent on two points where I would like to have a little more tightening up. I'd like to try to reach that by filing the next motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas conditional release of persons convicted of shooting flight MH17 could lead to great social unrest and would be very damaging to the feeling of justice and the feelings and tranquility of relatives;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the grounds on which such release can be prevented and, if necessary, to amend the law;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34915-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u162	The second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that persons who were aware in Ukraine that a Buk could or could come to rebel territory and did not do everything possible to ensure that a flight ban over rebel/Eastern Ukraine would be imposed in good time, may be punishable;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the launch of a criminal investigation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Roon and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34915-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u163	I do. Madam President. I shall begin with Mr Van Nispen, who made an appeal. I understand that call. He said: move towards such a treaty with the Russian Federation as soon as possible. I can only understand that as soon as it makes sense. So I fully understand that call. I'm gonna have to dissuade his motion. That investigation has been carried out and only on new facts will the cabinet consider further investigation. If you would say that you would like to discuss the content of the letter that came yesterday, that is another debate, but I would like to say at least that new facts need to be created before it makes sense to go further on that point. Then there is a motion by Mr De Roon on the issue of the prevention of release. I must also advise against it, for the simple reason that we have a system of conditional release. That system gives sufficient control and other possibilities. I also referred to the amendment of the law. There is no reason to suddenly go back to doing deviant things. On the contrary, we should not do that. There is also a motion by Mr De Roon and Mr Wilders on the commission of a criminal investigation into the situation in the former Yugoslavia. I would also like to dissuade this motion, for the simple reason that the criminal investigation extends in all respects to those who bear responsibility for taking down MH17.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u164	Mr De Roon, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u165	This means that the Minister is actually saying that what is in the motion is already happening and we are already doing so; that is support for government policy. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u166	The criminal investigation of the Joint Investigation Team focuses on tracking and preparing prosecutions of those responsible for bringing down MH17. One more criminal investigation, I should read that out completely. To be honest, I don't think that's a good idea, and I don't think that's gonna add anything. That's why I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u167	Finally, Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u168	Surely co-responsibility can also be the one who knew what could happen and who thought: I am not going to ensure that airspace is closed as soon as possible? It is therefore responsible, at least jointly responsible, for the final result.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u169	Now, indeed, you are going to ask me to have some sort Involve prejudice or pre-assessment in that criminal investigation. I would like to put it very clearly and quietly once more; Madam President, I am sorry to have to do so. The criminal investigation is aimed at detecting and preparing for prosecution cases against those who are wholly or partially responsible for taking down flight MH17. We should not put the Joint Investigation Team on any clause in that broad assignment. That's why I'm deposing this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u170	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u171	We will vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled and on the legislative proposal. I thank the Minister and the MPs. I'm suspending the meeting until 2:25 p.m. Then we will first swear Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks and then say goodbye to Mr Grashoff.
