ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u1	We shall now proceed to the debate. I give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP Group. Wait a minute, Mrs. Marijnissen. It's a little restless in the room. I call Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to kick it off by saying that our group thinks it is a mockery. This is the dossier that the Netherlands has been discussing for months. Let's do it openly. In any case, we will not give up the fight to get all this information, which we believe should be discussed here in public. Mr. Chairman. "Be a prime minister for all Dutch and not just for Shell and co." I concluded Question Time last week with a Prime Minister who did not want to come first and did not want to say much afterwards. The question is who we are here for today. What interests do we give priority to? Who's in charge in this country? The people or the multinationals? Is Mark Rutte the Prime Minister of the Netherlands or is he Shell's puppet? We're standing here for another episode in the dividend soap opera. "A guess," Klaas Dijkhoff called it. "A melon to swallow," according to the Christian Union. In the coalition, the Prime Minister seemed to be the only one who really believes in this great gift to the multinationals. And, if I look around, I see only Mr Segers, but since Mr Buma, Mr Dijkhoff and Mr Pechtold did not bother to take part in this debate tonight, I conclude: the Prime Minister is back to square one, he is on his own. Mr. Chairman. Then there was the debate on 25 April in which we spent hours talking to the Prime Minister about the question of exactly why he had reached this decision. No pieces, but pieces, no memories, but memories. This game of words resulted in a virtually opposition-wide motion of censure. And tonight we're back here, because the cover-up goes a little bit further. The so-called independent investigation that led to the abolition of the dividend tax proved to be paid by Shell. This research played a prominent role in the memo with which the Prime Minister went to the other parties to convince them. Did the Prime Minister know, when he had that piece in his hand, that he did it with an investigation that Shell had tapped three tons for? We also read about Project Smile. That sounds more like a bad scene from a gangster movie to me. Maybe it is. I do not know, because unfortunately we know very little about it. We do know that the cabinet spoke to Unilever five times about their headquarters. We do not know what was discussed, because the list of why the Netherlands is an attractive country has been wiped out. Why was that done away with, so I ask the Prime Minister. Why shouldn't we know? What we do know is that after the government agreement was concluded, the abolition of the dividend tax was used by this government as a promotion. Does the Prime Minister still support the statement he made in the debate on 25 April regarding the call he made with Unilever on 21 February? Behind the statement that the call wasn't about the head office, when it happened exactly on the day De Telegraaf reported on this? Mr. Chairman. These questions are even more relevant after last week's news, when the smelly deal with Shell came to light. All this time we have been asking for clarification here, and all this time Shell has been secretly told that the dividend tax has already been partially abolished. A fantastic deal for the Netherlands, Shell himself called it. But making the deal public, they refuse to do so to this day. And also the Prime Minister keeps hiding. And if it's such a fantastic deal, then why the mystery? Mr. Chairman. Last week, the Prime Minister at Nieuwsuur said in a response that he did not believe that the deal cost the Netherlands EUR 7.5 billion. My question is: how can he say here in the Chamber that he wasn't aware of the stinking deal and yet know that that deal didn't cost us 7.5 billion? Does the Prime Minister agree with us that even if this deal were allowed by law, it would be precisely these practices that cause people to lose faith in politics? Does the Prime Minister agree with us that it is precisely these deals that make people have the idea "you see, those high-ranking gentlemen in The Hague are mainly there for themselves"? Is the Prime Minister therefore going to make sure that the 7.5 billion is repaid? Mr. Chairman. The information I have heard this afternoon in the confidential briefing is not, as far as I am concerned, any information that should remain secret. It's explosive information, though. This information must go outside in order to serve the social interest and to be able to hold the debate here in Parliament. It is unacceptable and incomprehensible that this coalition should continue to cover it up. We will make every effort to get that information out to the public, so that everyone can see which multinationals are really in charge here in The Hague, so that everyone can see who is really pulling the strings over this Prime Minister and everyone can see how the Dutch have been fooled for 15 years. Mr. Chairman. It's another episode in the dividend debacle today. It is clear that here in The Hague everything must be devoted to the interests of big money: dignity and justice, independent science and even democracy. Everything is sacrificed on the altar of raw capitalism. It's an old story. It's an outdated story. The cabinet cannot continue to act like a puppet of multinationals. This Chamber must choose society. Finally, Mr President. Last week, the Prime Minister refused to respond to my call. That's why I'm giving him another chance tonight, of course. You can't just push this through. Stop abolishing the dividend tax. Be a prime minister for all Dutch and not just for Shell and co.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u3	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u4	Mr. Chairman. We have debated the abolition of dividend taxation more than ten times since the coalition agreement was concluded. More than 500 questions have been asked, but the most important question remains unanswered: why? We know that abolition does not create jobs and does not generate investment. In fact, we see 1.6 billion very good reasons to keep that tax and 2 reasons to abolish it: Unilever and Shell. We are now seeing 17 million Dutch people who are opposed to abolishing the dividend tax and one hundred thousand dollars there, in box K who, to the depth of his fibers, believes that it is a good idea. Mr. Chairman. This would be the cabinet for the ordinary Dutch, but those ordinary Dutch people see that they have instead received the Shell I cabinet. Defending this measure is the ugliest thing I've ever seen. A Prime Minister who needs smokescreens and a clumsy memory to defend his decision, which for some reason led to a very broad-based motion of censure in April. And a coalition that refuses to face the facts. The dividend tax is not to say to Rutte, but to the coalition parties the Rutte III cabinet defines. If this was already a melon to swallow by itself, what is it like when that melon keeps coming up and when that melon turns out to be rotten? That is what is happening with the abolition of the dividend tax. If you take such a big measure, there's usually a lot of reports that say why it's necessary, but they're not there right now. That makes sense, because economists think it is unwise, the Central Planning Bureau sees no advantages and the smart finance officials don't think it is a good idea either. The Prime Minister screened with a memo that was not a memo from Wiebes; a memo based on an investigation from the Rotterdam School of Management that turned out to be funded by VNO, Shell and Unilever. You're not making it up! It's Trumpian dealing with science. That is why my question to the Prime Minister is whether he is still prepared to have serious independent scientific research on this measure, so let me add, just to be sure, not to be funded by Shell.... and to inform the Court of Justice about it. That this smokescreen was specially hung to protect Shell, it turned out last week. Professor Jan van de Streek found out that Shell has a ruling, has an agreement that is probably against the law, an agreement that other companies will never get. It's called state aid. My question to the Prime Minister is whether this agreement has been submitted in advance to the European Commission. Shouldn't that have happened in the event of a suspicion of state aid? Can we still do that? And, in line with what Mr Marijnissen just said, if it turns out that this is not possible, as with Starbucks, does the Prime Minister agree with us that the EUR 7.5 billion should be returned to the Dutch as soon as possible? Mr. Chairman. We've seen Shell openly talk enthusiastically about this deal. Why is there no openness now? We've just seen an embarrassing mood. This is the debate at the moment. The coalition has said no, leave it under the radar. Does the Prime Minister not see that the way he deals with this issue is detrimental to confidence in politics? The same applies to the way in which the Chamber is informed. To this day, this has been flawed, careless, incorrect, flawed. We saw that, in response to last week's question, the Prime Minister had again wrongly suggested that he did not know this. He said he didn't know about the dividend tax arrangements. Turns out it is. If a welfare mother in this country has her administration as in order as this prime minister, the VVD is eager to kick down that benefit. Here we see the opposite. With nonchalance, with arrogance it is defended that this deal of billions and the intention to give another billions is fine and good for the Netherlands. Also on the ruling itself; there are more than 4,000 of those agreements. Mr Rutte was informed about one. What kind of deal would that have been? Why would he be informed about that? And why shouldn't we know that? Mr. Chairman. We are strict in the Netherlands. Strict on tax morals. Tough on people who don't pay their taxes properly. That's right. It's necessary. That makes sense. But how does this cabinet explain that rules that apply to all of us apparently do not apply to one or two large companies? How does this cabinet explain that there is no money for reasonable wishes of Dutch and Dutch SMEs, while this is being discussed? I therefore appeal to the coalition parties. Spend this money in the Netherlands. Spend it on good care for our parents. Spend it at the schools. Solve the shortage of teachers. Spend it on neighborhood security. These are all things that we want to be sure of in the Netherlands, and all of them are location factors that we all need, and not just two multinationals. This measure defines the Rutte III cabinet. My advice to this coalition and my appeal to you: do not; come to your senses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u6	Mr President, thank you. Here we are again. I'm probably not the only one who thinks that. There we are again debating the dividend tax. You see a pattern, not only when it comes to dividend taxation, but actually about this Prime Minister's entire performance over the past eight years. If there is something he doesn't like, for example, that a ruler gets into trouble or that he thinks "this measure, such as the dividend tax, stabs me in the throat like a bone," he tries to put the truth away for as long as possible. He does until he's forced into it and he really, really can't say it any other way. For example, if fantastic journalistic work is done by Trouw and by Professor Van de Streek, who have figured out exactly what is going on and what appointments have been made with Shell. Only then will the cabinet take a small step forward. But it never provides more information to the House of Representatives than is strictly necessary. Mr. Chairman. I have been a financial spokesman for a longer period of time and I have been involved in tax avoidance than I am the chairman of the group. Over the past few years, we have fought over and over again to get all kinds of shady tax deals, yes, deals made with companies, so that the House of Representatives is informed about this. That happens sometimes behind the scenes, because you really can't share everything, but if you can just do it for the scenes. We've done it on a regular basis. I already mentioned Starbucks. There, the cabinet acknowledged that there had been agreements with Starbucks but again only after the European Commission had forced it to become a public. But then it was possible. At that time, Article 67 did not stand in the way. I just found the defense of the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister shocking. It's like we're all crazy here. It's like we don't read the articles of the law here. Perhaps it is on the State Secretary's phone, but Article 67 does not in any way prevent the Cabinet from informing the Chamber in any way, but in any way. It calls for a balance to be made, a balance of interests. That consideration may be that you don't share it with the House of Representatives. That's fine. The cabinet could have its magical reasons for that. But don't tell us here that you don't have the opportunity to share it with us, because there is that possibility. History shows that your predecessors have made use of this as well. You don't want to share it. The central question for me is: what is stopping you? Okay, with information like we saw this afternoon, I can imagine that there's information in there that's sensitive to a company, to a taxpayer, and you don't want to bring it out. We can differ on that, but I respect that. Agreed. But there's nothing in the way of just recognizing that there are tax deals with Shell at all, nothing at all. We asked which directors were informed about and had contact with Shell at what time. There is no article of law in the way of sharing that with the Chamber. That's not about the state's interest. This is not about the importance of a taxpayer, of a company. This is about the importance of individual politicians. I mentioned it, and that is harsh: it sometimes smells like boyfriend politics. If you read the whole fact-finding complex and all the research that has been done by journalists, you get the idea that there has been a very special tailor-made approach here to one multinational, that everything has been done to ensure that the merger that this multinational wanted could continue. I want to know, and this Chamber wants to know which politicians have been involved. In what way has this been lobbied? Then we come back to the question: why was the abolition of the dividend tax at all in the government agreement? That was also about the question: which companies have so much power in the Netherlands that they can do this? Mr. Chairman. There may be people here today, in this Chamber or at home, who are thinking: why is this dividend tax being discussed again? It is about this dividend tax and what you can do with 1.4 billion; I will say something about it later. But this is also a democratic issue. How is it that one company has so much power? So much power to finally turn the whole policy into his own? First of all, to get individual agreements tailor-made, and, if that is no longer appropriate, to make sure that the whole dividend tax is abolished? It doesn't fit in a democracy. That smells like boyfriend politics. That is why I am here calling on the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister. Don't come up with Article 67 and what you're not allowed to share. Anything can be shared here. If you don't want it, be honest about it. Be a man and say, "We don't want to share it." But I call upon you to at least not try to defend yourself. Indicate at which moments politicians have been involved in this whole process. When were you informed? What have you been briefed on? That is what you owe to this Chamber, not to us as individuals, but as representatives of the people. We represent the Dutch people. And people have no idea what this cabinet is doing anymore. "1.4 billion spending! Are you all...?" That is what is being thought in the Netherlands. "What's going on there? They are free from God in the cabinet, it seems." I have said it many times: for EUR 1.4 billion, you can solve all the waiting lists in youth care, isolate 32,000 homes a year, create 15,000 jobs in healthcare. That's what you can do with that money. But no, this cabinet chooses knowingly to put it into a measure that all experts say do not; it does not contribute to the climate of establishment. The only experts who do agree are the CEOs of the big companies that are going to benefit from this. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. I hope the cabinet will be so wise to give more openness to the Chamber tonight. I hope that the whole history of this file shows that if you think "well, we're just trying to stay away," the truth will always be faster in the end and you'll be confronted with it at another time. And here I am again, saying: there we are again debating the dividend tax. I'm ready, but hope we don't have to let it get that far. To my colleagues here in the Chamber, especially to the people who were present at the hearing today, I would like to say the following. We cannot allow this to happen as a parliament. If we don't try to get the bottom of it and if we don't do everything we can to clear up what happened here with Shell, then we're not worth a snipe. Then we're not doing our controlling job properly. That is why I believe that we should start a parliamentary survey very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u7	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u8	Madam President. I've had it with this Prime Minister. The tax deal with Shell is totally unacceptable: shady constructions via the island of Jersey with which Shell has already fallen for billions of dollars: 7 or 7.5 billion. It was a good deal, said the president of Shell Netherlands. Indeed, a wonderful deal, but for Shell and not for the ordinary Dutchman, who can take the fall for it. And who was the Minister of Finance when the Tax Administration made a deal with Shell in October 2004? That was the VVD guy Gerrit Salmon. And who was rewarded a few years later with a fat paid job at Shell's? That was the same VVD guy, Gerrit Zalm. And who was the informant of the Rutte III cabinet, in which Prime Minister Rutte suddenly abolished the dividend tax from the top hat? Again the VVD'er Gerrit Zalm. I've called the VVD a mob gang before. It turns out that this was not an unjustified qualification. But this whole cabinet is hanging from nepotism to each other. Friends such as Shell and Unilever are being beaten up and coalition members are being helped. But it's much and much worse. Coalition parties appoint fellow party members as state minister on a Friday afternoon. A completely unsuitable D66 man will just become the new viceroy at the Council of State. And about not reporting the penthouse by D66 leader Pechtold, meanwhile also by his own European anti-corruption friends, everyone is anxiously silent. It is not the national interest or the interest of the ordinary Dutchman but the interest of the coalition parties, the big jobs of their own politicians and the friendly multinationals, which is important for Rutte III. Nepotism, in its purest form. But the common man, the ordinary woman who goes back to the office every morning or to the factory and who doesn't deserve a shred of what Gerrit Zalm and his colleagues all raking into Shell, who doesn't get a billion-dollar run, who can't set up tax structures and collect his salary through the Virgin Islands or Jersey. And that small SME guy can't split his business up in half, like Shell does to his shareholders. And that corner bakery can't put half of his business in Barbados or Jersey and talk to the tax authorities about a nice deal. It simply has to pay taxes to the last penny, as ordinary mortals all have to pay taxes in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. At the same time that Shell and the multinationals were pampered and the big jobs were divided among themselves, millions, millions of hard-working Dutch people have been given billions of burdens in recent years. Mark Rutte can spend billions of euros on asylum seekers, billions of euros on Africa, billions of euros on the European Union in Brussels and, as we know, billions of euros on Shell. But in the meantime, ordinary Dutch people only received higher taxes, higher rents, higher VAT, higher own risk and higher care premiums. The economy is now growing as a tierelier, but the common man or woman barely feels that in the wallet. So no deal for the Dutch people. If your name isn't Shell, you can whistle your dime. Here's what I'm gonna say to the Prime Minister. You shouldn't be here for Shell. You must be here for the common Dutchman. You shouldn't have made a billion-dollar deal with Shell's money-grubbing elite; you should have made a billion-dollar deal for the common Dutchman! Mr. Chairman. I've had it with Prime Minister Rutte. He's been lying to the public for years, including on this file. At first there were no memos, then there were memos. Again, he writes in a note that he misinformed the Chamber last week. But the worst thing is that with this ruling billions have gone to Shell, that the dividend tax for large companies is abolished and that for more than 3 billion the profit tax, the Vpb, is reduced, while the ordinary Dutchman has been taken hard by the Prime Minister for years. He was taken hard by the Prime Minister in his wallet! That's unforgivable. Politicians who do not stand up for the ordinary Dutchman, politicians who are mainly working to give their friends nice, fat paid jobs, such politicians have nothing to look for in the government. So that's what I'm saying to this Prime Minister. I won't give him another chance. I only have one message. Get out of here! Get out of here. We don't want to see you again in this cabinet, in the Tower and in trade-K. I've had it with him and he's gotta go. I therefore ask you, Mr President, and I also ask the Chamber, to be able to table a motion of censure in the first instance. Because the sooner that man gets out of there, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u9	Do I understand correctly, Mr. Wilders, that you wish to file a motion of censure in the first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u10	Yes, you understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u11	For that, you will need a majority of the Chamber that believes that this can be done in the first term. So I'd like to get a pulse on the House's agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u12	Mr President, I do not think there is much opposition to this and may I say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u13	No problem at all, Mr. Chairman. Bring it on and let's vote on it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u14	Mr President, this has been done before, so I have no objection either.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u15	The same goes for D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u16	Mr President, I would prefer to wait for the answer and the discussion with each other, but I also have no objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u17	No objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u18	Mr President, it has been a while, a first-term motion of censure, i.e. support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u19	Mr President, no objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u20	Mr President, I think it is a good practice to always wait for the government to reply, but if there are parties who are different in judgment about this and want to table a motion of censure here, then I do not wish to oppose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u21	Yeah, same goes for the SP. Support for the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u22	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u23	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u24	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u25	You've just been, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u26	I know that, Mr President, but in this kind of debate, the use is to go back... No, I just forgot to say something. I would like to take a direct vote on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u27	I am looking at Mr Wilders first. You have a majority in favour of tabling a motion in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then I'd be happy to submit it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[declares confidence in the Prime Minister,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-212]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u29	I do not know when you will vote on it, but if you vote on it, I would like to have a roll-call vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u30	All right, I'll see if a majority too... It is customary to vote on that. Does anyone object to voting on it right? No? Then we're gonna... Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u31	Ladies and gentlemen behind me say 'yes, now', but I am from a group other than GroenLinks, and I would like to have ten minutes of suspension in order to be able to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-26-tweedekamer-33.u32	Yeah, we're gonna do that anyway. Thank you. Then I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes. Then we'll vote.
