ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-5.u1	Is everyone here? I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mrs Kröger from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Oh, no, I can see that not all the spokesmen are here yet. I think it's kind of a unique thing that we're ahead of the agenda. I propose that we suspend for a few minutes, so that we allow all Members to come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-5.u2	All the Members who take part in the debate are now present. I call Mrs Kröger from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. For this VAO Spoor I have only one motion, on the hsl. For the rest, the trail will be discussed this afternoon and at the AO MIRT. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas delays and failures in the HSL-South have, to a large extent, a technical cause or strong technical component;]] [[having noted that several independent investigations, including on behalf of the Government, show that the technical deficiencies of the HSL must be resolved in order to improve performance;]] [[noting that the still to be installed windshield on the bridge of the Hollands Diep and the introduction of new IC trains only solve two of the deficiencies that cause problems;]] [[Whereas different protective systems, the location of the voltage locks and other faults should also be remedied for substantial improvement of the HSL-South performance;]] [[Considering that, on the basis of various investigations, including Long Term Vision of NS and ProRail, no comprehensive consideration and cabinet decision has yet been taken to reduce the complexity of HSL-South and increase reliability;]] [[calls on the Government, on the basis of the various investigations, together with NS and ProRail, to draw up a concrete roadmap on how to reduce the technical complexity of HSL-South and discuss this with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29984-793]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. Recently we had a good AO on the track. That's when several things came along. I want to get two out. We were a little disappointed that there is no rail link with neighbouring countries this year. We had a commitment to this in the first place. I can understand that not everything is always easy and that there is not always a certain momentum, but we hope that we will have the Secretary of State's promise that she will continue to work to ensure that that rail summit will take place in 2019. The CDA considers cross-border rail to be very important. Then there is the second point. We have also asked for attention for Kijfhoek, the largest yard in the Netherlands. We also made a work visit there and talked to people from ProRail on the spot. We would ask the Secretary of State to pay particular attention to this in order to give clarity to the municipality and its inhabitants. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Kijfhoek is concerned about safety while there is still no clarity about the construction of emergency roads;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with interested parties, to provide rapid clarification on the construction of sufficient emergency roads on the Krijfhoek marshalling area,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Schonis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29984-794]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. We had a good debate. On behalf of me, Mrs Kröger has tabled a motion on the HSL, so no motion from my hand. I do have a question for the Secretary of State. We read yesterday that the NS wants to invest in a faster connection between Groningen and the Randstad. Shortening the journey time is a huge improvement in the accessibility of the northern provinces. The SP warmly welcomes this initiative and hopes that this will be the starting point for cooperation between Groningen, Friesland, Drenthe and the NS. We are also very curious about the reaction of the Secretary of State to the plan of the NS. Does she also see a role for herself in this whole?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-5.u6	Thank you. Will the motion be filed...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-5.u7	I didn't file a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-5.u8	Sorry, that's true, but I do see support... I was distracted for a moment because I was discussing how we're gonna do it, but we're gonna suspend for a second. After that, the Secretary of State will assess the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-5.u9	I will reopen the meeting and give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good to see that questions can be tabled in this debate with sufficient support. Sometimes that's even more important than the motions. In the Kröger/Laçin motion to item No. 793 I am asked for a concrete roadmap for the HSL-South. We are doing a lot about the complexity of the hsl and I think I can make Mrs Kröger happy by saying that there is a roadmap with NS and ProRail. We are always carefully considering what we can do with the 60 million that I am making available to reduce technical complexity or technical problems, such as the windshields to which Mrs Kröger herself refers. We report on this through the progress report. When Mrs Kröger says 'it really has to be very different and much more', we are also talking about much more money. Then that is something for a debate that we are going to have next, namely on the budget. I would also like to hear where Mrs Kröger sees the cover for these additional steps, if she would like to do something on top of what we are already doing. The motion as it is here, I must advise against, because it is uncovered.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-5.u11	I see that this raises questions for Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-5.u12	Without us reopening the whole debate here: I think there are two things. Now a plan is being made for what you can do with that $60 million. The question is: what further steps would you like to take to solve these technical problems? Then the next step is: what price tag is attached to that? But if we in the Chamber do not even understand what technical improvements are needed to make a real improvement on the HSL, how can we, as a Chamber, know what budget is involved? We are not talking about the 60 million, but about all the steps that need to be taken in the long term. That is what I believe this motion requires: long-term, technical improvements, action plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mrs Kröger has just referred to all sorts of studies that have already been carried out and that have made it clear what the cost is. Whether you want to include something in a roadmap also depends on whether you think the costs and benefits outweigh each other and whether you can get the money available. That is why a further discussion on this issue is useful in relation to having extra budget. If Mrs Kröger has any suggestions for this, I would like to hear them later today in the budget debate. I've already announced that it's going to be about rail. I would like to hear from her what budget she wants to make available and also what we are not going to do, because we can only spend the euro once. So I'm sticking to my judgment on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-5.u14	The motion in part No. 793 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-5.u15	Yes, but with the available resources, we use NS and ProRail to do everything we can to eliminate, of course, as many faults as possible on that line, or technical problems with that line, and to improve its operation. Fortunately, we can see that the performance is in line with the commitments we have made on this subject. Then I come to the Amhaouch/Schonis motion on item No. 794. The CDA invites the government, in consultation with stakeholders, to provide rapid clarification on Kijfhoek. I can very well imagine Mr Amhaouch's motion. ProRail works together with the maintenance contractor and the carriers to ensure the safety of the emplacement Kijfhoek, but this summer a number of additional measures have also been found to be necessary as a result of incidents. So they were taken, quite rightly. I myself have close contact with the municipalities in the region about this. We must feel together that we are in control of this situation and that safety is being improved there. An integral security manager has been appointed, ProRail is under enhanced supervision of the ILT and the structural causes of the incidents and the security culture are investigated. The mayors are well involved in that investigation. The approach to the renovation is accompanied at administrative level by ProRail, surrounding municipalities and the Ministry. We are also addressing the issue of emergency routes. We are also ensuring that this issue is properly taken into account in the renovation plan. That is foreseen for 2019. I shall leave the vote on this motion, which was also tabled by Mr Schonis, to the Chamber. Then Mr Amhaouch also asked for an international rail summit, a point which the CDA has asked for several times. Last Monday we had the Flemish-Dutch summit, where we discussed a number of cross-border mobility issues, even wider than rail alone. Next week I am going to Düsseldorf to talk to colleagues about cross-border transport. One of the results of the Flemish-Dutch summit was that we would like to have a trinational working group, in which we want to talk structuralally with each other about the cross-border mobility questions of rail, water and roads. This would sometimes be at official level, but sometimes also at top level. So it is certainly my ambition to pursue this agenda. Together with Flanders, we have expressed this intention and I hope that next week we can turn it into a trinational working group with Germany. There are a number of dossiers that really require trinational cooperation. We can discuss them with each other in an integral way. So I certainly have attention to that and I also hope that we can come back to that next year. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Laçin asked me what I think of this faster connection. I love that. I also hope that the test will succeed and I am happy to see with the NS how we can ensure that we can achieve that faster connection. Very happy with this trial and I look forward to the results. We'll definitely talk to the NS about that. If we can get more passengers to the destination faster by making better use of existing rail, this will all benefit us. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. Then we have come to the end of the VAO on the railroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-11-07-tweedekamer-5.u17	We will continue with the VAO on road safety at 11.15 a.m.
