ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the legislative proposal Adoption of the budget statements of the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality and the Animal Health Fund for 2019 (35000-XIV).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. It's quite a memorable moment we're discussing this right now. It has been a number of years since there was a separate LNV budget and it is also a happy moment that it is being discussed in this Chamber. Thank you for the opportunity to do so. Last week, with your Chamber, I was allowed to debate a wide range of issues, particularly in relation to the new vision presented by the Ministry in the field of food in agriculture. A number of Members have already referred to this. I have felt free not to repeat the whole part of the vision again because it has already been discussed extensively with your Chamber and has had an exchange of views on it, and in particular to focus on the more specific input of three of your Members who would like to address a number of issues here. Since the questions have been asked quite specifically by Members, I have intended to give the answers along the lines of the contributions of the various Members. That seemed so efficient to me. Mr Koffeman made a rather detailed speech on his views on agriculture, nature, food quality and all the themes surrounding it. I always like debates where you go back to the principles, the foundations, why you find certain things, what you stand for and how you see them in the light of the future. I heard that in Mr Koffeman's speech. His vision of agriculture, nature and food was not unclear; let me put it this way. Allow me to add a few comments. In particular, he referred to a number of statements I made myself in an interview about my own position in this debate. The essence of that speech was: how do you get further into a debate that, to my taste and my idea, has become incredibly polarized? You're from agriculture or you're from nature. The thrust of that article, but also of what I have often tried to point out in debates, is that I do not believe in continuing to emphasise polarisation, but that I believe, above all, that politics must seek solutions and answers. Evident is that you have to dare to look at what someone else thinks, that you have to dare listen to arguments that others bring in, that you have to test that against your own beliefs and that you then have to decide how to get along with each other. That's what I meant in the article. Sometimes you have to be sharp with yourself: from what visions, from what dogmas do I trade, and is it productive to get on with it in a debate in which, in my opinion, too little has happened in recent years because everyone just kept pointing to each other without sketching a perspective of where it could go together? That's my quest. That's what I was trying to tell you in the article. I got the impression, but you can correct me if it is not, that Mr Koffeman tried to put me back on the tile where I came from. He indicated that, above all, I had to continue to reason from one point of view in order to have a future for agriculture. We can enter into that debate and it is also good to deal with it here, but I hope he shares with me that agriculture is too important to linger in polarized debates and simply to call out to the other what it does or does not do well, without looking for what it takes to move forward, even if you do not fully and fully realize your own vision. That's my quest in this field. That is perhaps also the search you have seen in the vision I have written, and I am deeply convinced that we need to talk about agriculture and nature. We must ensure that we have solutions where farmers not only get a lot of things over them, but also give them a real perspective and in which we have an eye and care for nature. I believe that this combination is possible, and that is what I said in the vision we spoke about last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u4	I would like to correct or at least remove the impression that it is my view that you should go back to all sorts of old principles. That is not the case at all. I was very curious, however, to hear you say that'my thinking has changed'. That remark came in the newspaper after a year of ministerial work, in which direction your thinking has changed. I imagine you'll come to new insights in such a field of activity anyway. I have outlined the picture that has been said since 2000: agriculture is going to have a very different reputation. The prestige outlined by all kinds of parties is different from what we see today. I imagine you've run into that in your practice. You have also been very angry about the manure fraud that was so large-scale that you could hardly believe that it could exist. You have called parties to account for this. I am concerned that it is a good starting point to allow people to talk to each other, but that is not workable when these talks lead to nothing and self-regulation leads to permanent violation of the law or permanent deterioration of nature. Nature doesn't have much opportunity to talk back, other than that the groin disappears, that all kinds of other species disappear and that we see that nature doesn't last. My question to you was: how has your opinion changed? Self-regulation is leading to a huge decline in biodiversity. I know that this is a subject to your heart. You also said that you want to do something about biodiversity. I would like to know what you are going to do about this biodiversity. What are you gonna do about it? You say: you should give farmers room. I care about the suicide of farmers as much as you do. Right now, these people have no perspective. That's what I've been trying to sketch. I've asked what perspective you want to give them. This increase in scale, the fact that seven farmers stop a day, is a major problem that is not going to be solved in the current system. I wonder how we can change that, in conversation with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u5	There are a number of points that I would like to make. Firstly, the suggestion that I am merely self-regulation. I really want to fight that. An image is being created that is not justified. It is also related to the manure dossier. A picture is being made of me as if I were only concerned with self-regulation in the manure dossier. I have sent the Chamber the enforcement strategy that has been sent to the European Commission, in which I indicate exactly what I am going to do to combat manure fraud. The European Commission has said that we believe in this enforcement strategy. That is not 'only self-regulation'. It is true that I also believe that the sector itself should do something. I do not believe that the government should feel the responsibility to tackle such a social issue if the people concerned do not themselves seek responsibility for it. I'm committed to that combination. I speak to them myself and say: you must change your behavior yourself. At the same time, as a government, we will maintain it. That is the division of responsibility that I believe we must shape in this way in society. A government can never always regulate everything. In fact, in a society like this, I think it's getting complicated to talk to people. They can really easily sit back and say: the government does nothing. The point of suicides. Mr Koffeman mentioned this. I think that is a very delicate subject. To be honest, I find it very complicated to link that one-on-one with how we set up our agriculture. That is also a suggestion I hear Mr Koffeman make. I would be extremely reluctant to do so. These are all individual cases. I am not an expert, I am not a psychologist or a psychiatrist, but there are many things in which you cannot say one-on-one that the way in which we have shaped our agriculture leads to that. Mr President, through you I would like to call on Members to exercise real restraint. That requires the subject in my opinion. Then the point of scaling up. Mr Koffeman says that seven farmers stop a day and that is how we increase the scale. As Mr Koffeman knows, the cabinet is in the process of encouraging young farmers to join. They're gonna take a pretty big risk. I speak to boys and girls from the early 20s who have a million-dollar loan in their name. It is a hugely capital-intensive sector. When you do this, of course, you have to be incredibly motivated and convinced that you want to do this. Then you sometimes run into laws and regulations, against conditions such as high land prices, which makes it difficult to take that step. As a cabinet, we want to respond to these young people. It's not a goal in itself that farmers stop. At the same time, I note that this problem is a European problem. I also have discussions in Europe next week about how we can seduce, encourage and support young farmers to take that step. So it's not an exclusive Dutch problem. Mr Koffeman is asking about my bigger story, my greater vision of agriculture. I think that is precisely what I said in the circular agricultural vision. On the one hand, we note that in the Netherlands, the production at the lowest possible cost is at borders, even if it is only because of the higher land price and labour costs. At the same time, we see many opportunities for Dutch agriculture to become a frontrunner in circular agriculture, which focuses on the efficient use of raw materials. If you do that, you can take into account what's happening in your environment. Agriculture is not only about the production of our food, but also about the design of our landscape, of our living environment. I have spent the past year trying to give that direction to all those farmers who say: I don't know where the government is going with us anymore. I want to give direction and clarity and focus policy on that. We're just at the beginning. We have put that vision in place and we will be taking a lot of steps, I hope with each other, to give hands and feet to it and to give those farmers real perspective, but also nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u6	Finally, Mr. Coffeeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u7	Sure, I'll be brief. I understand this very well, and I welcome it in part, but it is also important to note that it has been said for decades: the amount of animals we keep in this country has disastrous consequences for nature and that cannot be done any longer. Forms of self-regulation such as dairy farming, the abandonment of regulation, have led to 160,000 healthy animals going to slaughter. Surely it can't be that you take care of that from the point of view of a responsible agricultural system? If the Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen is flagged back from Europe, when the European Court says that it can no longer be done, when Trouw writes on the front page that they are working on it, then there is still light between building a balanced system and real policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u8	Again, many things are mentioned in one sentence. There are combinations that I want to distinguish and disprove. This cabinet makes the livestock smaller. It is the first cabinet in years to form a warm clean-up around pig farming. I hope that Mr Koffeman recognizes that as well. With regard to dairy farming, there has been a situation that I would have liked to have prevented, and I think a lot of people with me. I am also thinking of the situation in which a number of farmers are now in. If you ask me, what have you been up to for the past year?', Then this is a file that I've been awake for the past year. But we have just put those ceilings back where they haven't been for a while and where we've got into trouble around other regulations. Mr Koffeman is asking to regulate it. That just happened, in an incredibly painful way. By laying down that vision and by pointing it in that direction, I hope that we will not end up in such situations. I also believe that this is something where the government will always continue to play a role. As far as I am concerned, that is the lesson of what has happened. Many parties point to each other when it comes to the question of who is guilty in this file. Then let me get it on my own, because I don't feel like blaming it all over again. But I believe that a government in that sense should also simply act in a regulatory way. If you let that go all the way on these kinds of topics, it could lead to these kinds of situations. With the wisdom afterwards, we should have done so immediately. It didn't happen. We do now, but I would have liked to avoid it this way. Then I have already answered a number of questions concerning self-regulation on manure, I think. I am therefore opposed to the idea that it is only self-regulation. We ourselves are also standardizing and enforcing in that. Mr Koffeman cites an advisory office that would have offered its services to me and which is then involved in the criminal investigation. Mr Koffeman may visit, but there are many parties who offer me their services. That doesn't mean I'm gonna talk to these people next. That is not the case here either. The simple fact that someone is sending a letter to me is used as proof that the sector or that certain people who are in those networks have an influence on my policy. I really reject that. It's not like that. I can't believe a lot of people write letters. Then that would also apply to all the others. It's about what I do with it and what choices I make. I haven't spoken to this party. We have just talked about the size of the livestock and what is happening there. Then the pricing of the externalities. Mr Koffeman asked me to agree that we should introduce it. In the food letter I sent together with Mr Blokhuis, we indicated that we want to make more insight into where food comes from, but also, for example, the costs associated with the production of certain products. I very much believe in transparency. I believe that people can also make choices based on information. I think we have seen this on a number of points. Last week, I also referred to the example of the single star meat, the two-star meat and the three-star meat. These are agreements between supermarkets, animal protection and retail. They are not the biggest friends of each other in advance, but they have found each other in a common interest in terms of the question: what are the prices that a farmer should get, including the extra efforts he makes in relation to animal welfare? The stars also give consumers insight into what is opposite. You can see that this also has a stimulating effect. If consumers know that there are issues on the contrary, they are also prepared in certain cases to pay a higher price for them. I think that we should always look for ways in which information can help consumers make a better choice. At the same time, it cannot be if we do not want to pay that price for the farmers involved. We can write great and compelling visions about agriculture and nature, but if it does not return to their incomes for those farmers, those growers, those fishermen in question, it will stop at once. Then perhaps we can say: that herd has shrunk. Has the world been improved in the end? I do not believe it, because consumers will always get that meat or fish or those products from abroad, with all the costs involved and all the externalities if we talk about it again. So it is a balance that you have to look for, and I say on the one hand: if we make more demands on farmers, then there must also be a price for it, so that farmers can actually achieve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u9	Mr. Koffeman, I urge you to ask short questions, because we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u10	The Minister refers to abroad, where consumers might be able to obtain other meat at the time when we impose too high requirements. May I also point out that 70% of the animal protein produced in the Netherlands is exported and that we have no influence whatsoever on it with our star system, whether it is animal-friendly or not produced? Everything that goes abroad moves beyond our horizons. So the moment you want to price the externalities, you just have to charge the damage that is caused here to the person causing the damage, no different than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u11	The word "damage"... I also object to certain language. This is about those who produce our food. I think we can also show some gratitude for this happening. That happens in a way where we might as well have a discussion about what could be better, but even if we look at it internationally, we really are not at the bottom of the list. I should also like to give that back to Mr Koffeman. So I would really like to use the word 'damage' in this context. Mr Koffeman also asked questions about the PAS. Other members of the Chamber have done the same. He says that we have been flagged back by the European Court and says: I hope that the Council of State will now make a choice. I am a little reluctant to comment on the content of the issue surrounding the PAS, because it is under the courts. If I am going to give substantive qualifications here, I think that will be complicated in the light of the fact that there is still a real need to follow a statement from the Council of State. But the fact that the European Court of Justice has set a line through the PAS is simply not true. It's not true. However, the European Court has indicated that it needs to be better based on parts, and I have also indicated to your Chamber that we are working to shape this. Then Mr Koffeman asked a number of very specific questions about the Oostvaardersplassen. On the Oostvaardersplassen, the province of Flevoland asked for an opinion from a committee led by Mr Van Geel. Mr Koffeman also referred to this. I heard Mr Koffeman make a number of statements about Mr Van Geel, which I would like to make a bit of nuance. Let me put it this way, Mr President: I am not quite used to making qualifying statements about persons, where they are not present and where they cannot give a counter-word. I had the impression this was happening here anyway. I find that complicated, because Mr Van Geel did this on behalf of an administrative body, namely the province of Flevoland, where political leaders are. If we think of Mr Van Geel's report, or if I say the assumption of a number of things that are mentioned in it, I think that we, as politicians, should claim among ourselves the politician and not the one who gives the opinion. Let me say this in the context of that whole. Saying he's got a neck shot, that he's got no expertise... I think it goes a long way, Mr President, let me put it this way. Then I come to a number of very specific questions. At whose request was the flight ban imposed? That happened at the request of the triangle. The triangle indicated that they wanted a flight ban, but immediately the suggestion was raised that the press would be kept away with this. I do not know whether Mr Koffeman followed the news yesterday, but you can see that State forestry is operating quite transparently. In fact, they have just taken journalists and shown them what is happening, to give them that openness and not to suggest that everything is happening behind the scenes. I think that's pretty good, because we all know the social sensitivity. I think the fact that State Forestry wants to be so open about this is a pre. Mr Koffeman also asks what I think of the shooting. In the division of responsibility, responsibility for nature has been transferred to the provinces with decentralisation, including those for the Oostvaardersplassen. We have all seen the situation there, and also the social debate surrounding it. I think we should look for a structural solution. I also see that a solution is possible if we follow the recommendations of the Van Geel Committee's report. In that sense, I am on the same lines as the province of Flevoland. Yeah, part of that is you're bringing the population back to what the area can handle. That is also in the interests of that population, because otherwise we will have situations that have consequences that, as we have pointed out in recent years, are not pleasant. That includes hunting, that's right. In this sense, I support the line that the province of Flevoland has deployed. Mr Koffeman also asks whether I intend to take back responsibility for the area. I'm not. We have made clear agreements in the field of decentralisation. I believe that your Chamber was also involved when nature was transferred to the provinces. This has also happened here and I am not suddenly going to take back responsibility for one area where, of course, I still have it for the European goals that I have to achieve. I'm still open to that. Mr Koffeman also asked about the sea eagle. The sea eagle has been taken into account in shaping population management. If that had not happened, it would obviously have been a reason for the court not to grant that authorisation. The judge also has to check for those kinds of goals, so that was also looked at and we have been given permission to do so. The judge stated in its entirety that this could be carried out in this way. Mr Koffeman also pointed out that 50% of forest rangers had conscientious concerns. There are two rangers who have indicated that they do not want to participate in this way. I welcome the fact that State forestry is taking this into account and is simply doing justice to those who say they have conscience concerns. I really appreciate that we can take that into account in this country and that we can find practical solutions to this. That is what has happened in this case. As far as I can see, I have answered the questions put to me by Mr Koffeman. Where that is not the case, I am always prepared to give some explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u12	One interruption, Mr. Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u13	I had two more questions. One question was whether what State Forestry says is true, namely that hunters from the Royal Hunting Department are involved in the shooting and, if so, whether the Minister believes that the Royal Hunting Department's subsidy can be used for that purpose. The other question was about the five species that are currently quite huntable in the Netherlands, unbiased. Does the Minister believe that this should remain the case, because there is no reason or social benefit and need for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u14	Let me start with the last question. The discussion on the wild list was held in the adoption of the Nature Protection Act, the Nature Protection Act. That is where we have debated at length, at least, my predecessor and you, about which species should be on that list, and I see no reason to depart from it now. Then there's the question of whether the Royal Hunting Department is involved in the hunt.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u15	You can also do this in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u16	That's good, because I don't have the answer to that. Then I come to the questions raised by Mr Reuten. We also had a wide-ranging exchange of views last week. At that time, we had a pleasant time thinking about what the future of agriculture is going to look like. I see the questions that Mr Reuten then asked again in his speech today. I have made it clear how I see the process in front of me about the implementation and operationalisation of the vision. We are now in the process of shaping the precise timetable, with the actions we are going to take to shape that vision. This means that by May we can put down an agenda in which things are operational. I have promised that I will also send the letter on the operationalisation of the vision, which I will send to the Lower House one of these days. So one of these days you will get an insight into exactly how we see that process in front of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u17	My question is very brief: when do you think this will be ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u18	This week, your Chamber will receive the letter stating the steps we are taking until May, which should lead in May to an agenda filled with operational objectives and matters that we are going to address. Mr Reuten pointed out that circular agriculture was not yet linked to regional self-sufficiency. The regional chain has a place in circular agriculture. That's what's in the vision. Short chains fit in with circular agriculture, but that does not mean that we are not going to export anything at all or that we are not going to bring anything else across the border. I have said in my view that the Netherlands has a greater role in this world than just to take care of itself. I think it is incredibly important that a prosperous country, which has so much knowledge and skills and also products in other countries, should ensure that food supplies are up to that level. I think it is a matter of honour that we can play a role in the world. Not only to make an incredibly large amount of money, but also to ensure that we are able to provide food to people in areas where there is no or little food. We sometimes forget about it in a country where there is so much food, but the food problem is only increasing over the next few years. There are more and more mouths that need to be fed and the conditions are becoming more and more complex to actually feed those people. At the same time, I believe that we as a country also have a role to play in helping countries themselves to shape food supplies in all those countries where certain forms of agriculture are not yet well developed. However, I would find it too limited to focus only on self-sufficiency in our agriculture. I think we have a role to play in the world to ensure that we can feed those mouths.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u19	The issue is actually that, from my point of view at least, the countries in Africa, for example, should become self-sufficient. Very often our exports interfere with their production. Let me leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u20	This suggests that in those countries it is possible that they could produce all the products and crops, things that we consume and which people in Africa may want to consume in part. A large part of the conflicts in this world are caused by a shortage of food. Climate is also a factor in this. We have plenty of discussions about whatever's going on there. I believe that a country that is able to produce food and thus feed other mouths has a great task, precisely to ensure that those people are able to get that food. I would like each country to be able to provide its own food, but this is not the case because of all kinds of circumstances. People sometimes say to me that we should all go all the way to regional production and the like. Then I say: I understand that and I also support regional production, but let's see what's on your own fruit bowl. The oranges and bananas are not all from the Netherlands. Also consider what we ourselves are getting from other countries and what we consider to be a normal part of our food patterns. If we really had to go all the way to self-sufficiency, that would also mean that we would no longer consume a lot of products. I think we'll have a bigger discussion with each other. Mr Reuten also pointed out that transport produces a large proportion of CO emissions. He said we should reduce that. We should look much more closely at what we can produce regional/European. I see now that this is part of the plans for agriculture and that we are importing certain flows from many countries, for example with regard to animal feed, where there is a great deal of opportunity to value our own residual products as food and animal feed, for example, which we can use again. I think that is how we should look for ways to limit more all those flows that we could otherwise decorate. It is also the commitment of my vision to look at it where it is possible. I think that, in a sense, is the spirit in which we are working out the matter. Mr Reuten then asked about VAT on animal and plant products. He wants a differentiation in that. I believe that you have been discussing the Tax Plan with the Secretary of State for Finance for several hours, one of which is the VAT increase, in which for the first time those who always want higher VAT on meat are served. 'Cause that tax is going up. We have agreed in the Cabinet on how to deal with VAT, while at the same time saying that we are ensuring that people's purchasing power is maintained so that they can finance that increase. I have seen a tax shift from labour to consumption in many election programmes. We are applying it, and I think that is a good way of not overburdening what we want to stimulate, namely labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u21	The Minister says that VAT on meat-related products is increasing. That is not the intention of the rapporteurs I mentioned. Their intention is that there should be a very substantial differentiation between meat-related products and fruit and vegetable-related products. That's the point. If you want to compensate those two, it will have to go up on meat-related products and that on fruit- and vegetable-related products probably to zero. The rapporteurs say that, if you look at the climate, that is the most effective measure in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u22	I know that a number of rapporteurs have reported on this. I would like to draw attention to a CPB opinion that I believe two years ago, which also looked at the effect of purely increasing VAT on meat, for example. That has a limited effect in that sense. If you want to do something there, you have to look much wider at what actually determines the consumption of human animal and plant proteins. We agreed on this in the coalition agreement. Mr. Reuten says, "Stop thinking"? No, but I'm also attached to that deal being a deal. We have all kinds of initiatives in schools to stimulate fruit and vegetables, such as Young Learning Food. There are a lot of ways to change the behavior. If you want people to eat more vegetable protein, you have to introduce them to it and we are active in it. In this way we try to tell children that fruit and vegetables are really good to eat. With regard to manure, I have already answered a number of questions in response to Mr Koffeman. Mr Reuten referred to the 47% rate. I really want to stress that this is about risk-based supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u23	Mr. Reuten, if you have anything to add, you should go to the microphone, but I hope you'll keep it short, because we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u24	I have made a clear distinction between select and random checks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u25	Sure, but I explained that last week. I'll explain it again now. The NVWA looks at where the biggest risks can occur and there she goes to see what it's like in practice. That seems to me the right method if you want to shape enforcement properly with limited capacity. The capacity is limited in that I can't put an inspector behind every tree. I've said that before in the Chamber. I wholeheartedly support the NVWA's approach. It is the most effective and efficient use of people and resources. Mr Reuten proposed that a random sample should also be taken. For that we need to check 1,000 companies and see what the percentage is. This is really at the expense of those companies that are at high risk. I can't just pull out a lot of extra capacity to control 1,000 companies. That's a really big job you've been working on for an incredibly long time to shape that. This is at the expense of companies that we believe might be going on there. Then I'm going to leave the companies where there's more going on, because I have to do a random sample. I don't think that's a good commitment from people and resources. I explained why we did it this way, but I want to nuance that 47%: that is not about the whole sector. Mr Reuten has also pointed that out, it is really about companies that we suspect are already doing something about. We may or may not get confirmation of that. Finally, I have a number of questions from the member of GroenLinks. It asks about the urgency of the particulate matter problem in relation to health benefits. We have conducted a number of studies on particulate matter in relation to health, including poultry and goats. Some of these studies are still ongoing and some of them have been completed. In poultry we see that there is not always a one-on-one relationship. So that's what we're looking at. We're already trying to shape those investigations. A number of questions have been asked about the balance towards nature. I think that at the very beginning I indicated how I was looking for ways of linking nature and agriculture. There was a specific question of how I look at a number of biodiversity issues. At present, a large number of social parties from nature organisations to LTO are considering the Deltaplan Biodiversity Recovery. That will be presented one of these days. I'm very curious what they're going to come up with. I am also very interested in what they are going to come up with, because if there is such a broad consensus, if it is possible to create it on such an important issue, then I cannot just put it aside. I'm gonna take this seriously and see what we can do with it. The question is also: what are the difficult measures to be taken in the context of the vision and in the context of circular farming? If we want to implement this consistently, that requires quite a bit of the way we work on the farm and of our thinking about agriculture. But not only that: this is also about society as a whole. That vision was written not only for farmers, but for all parties involved in food and the food chain. They are consumers too; they are not just farmers. We cannot just continue to point to farmers, gardeners and fishermen if those who have to do things differently are not prepared to buy those products and pay a price that does justice to the price for which they are to be produced. So if you ask me where the pain is, I think that that of a lot of parties means a change in thinking and working, but not just of the primary producer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u26	I very much agree with the Minister that it was also stated last week in the oral consultation that it is a joint responsibility of society and farmers. But from your point of view as Minister of Agriculture, it is the next question. In this vision of circular agriculture, painful choices will have to be made. Certain forms of production and certain ways of keeping animals, such as those that are taking place today, will no longer be able to get a place in that vision. What are the difficult choices that need to be made in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u27	The operationalization and the goals we set is a process that we are working out over the coming period. This also has to do with legislation and regulation. Last week we talked about manure, fertilizer and more of those aspects. In the European Commission, agreement has now also been reached on a better reduction of animal manure. These are steps forward that we can take, for example, towards reducing the application of fertilizers. The production also requires a lot of gas. What does that mean for the fertilizer industry? Yeah, that's gonna get felt. Those are matters that will have consequences there. At the same time, I sincerely believe that in this way we can see the animal manure, which is often seen as a problem now, as a solution precisely where it is now a problem, because we have formulated all kinds of strict applications on how to use it. So people will be more or less happy with what is written down, but ultimately it's about bringing agriculture and nature more into balance. I think this is one of the examples of how you could do that. Mr. Chairman. They also asked what the advantage of having a separate ministry of LNV was. In the formation, where I was quite close to myself, I didn't have an opinion on this myself. A choice has been made to set up a separate ministry of LNV. That wasn't because it's so much fun or because we like to hang signs, but because it expresses the fact that agriculture is so much more than an economic activity. That should appeal to GroenLinks. I've come across this in the past year. Agriculture, nature and food are about social values, about something incredibly fundamental, namely our food supply, about our living environment, about our layout of the rural area. These are all matters of national importance, in the interests of everyone, and in which consideration must be made that are broader than perhaps just the economic aspect. It is precisely the fact that there is a private ministry of LNV that shows that we see the importance of this and that we can also make these considerations so. It expresses the importance you give as a country to it. When I was a minister, I came to Europe and they said: you have another minister of LNV; we never understood why that was not the case. No one could understand why a country that is so large in agriculture, where it deals with such fundamental matters, apart from our position in global agriculture, did not have a minister of LNV. I actually agree with them. Finally, the questions about the regional envelope and the regional deals. The two Chambers shall be informed of this. We are indeed going to shape the process as it was outlined. We have now indicated which regions we want to make a deal with. A deal in the sense that co-financing from the Empire will become available, but a region itself will also have to contribute at least half to express the administrative commitment and commitment from the region. When we work out the deals, we will include how it will be monitored very specifically in the way it is carried out and also how we look at it in the evaluation. That will be included in the deals themselves. I would like to stress, however, that a regional deal is not only a regional deal when it comes to money. A regional deal is so much more than just money. It is also about parties who find each other in the elaboration of a number of things, sometimes helping them administratively to give them more hands and feet. The simple fact that you suddenly find each other and start thinking about how to pick up together something that may have been lying around for a long time also has an added value in itself. We are also in favour of helping if requested. It's a bit technical, but the Municipal Fund and the Province Fund are the vehicle to which we transfer the funds. Those resources must actually go to that project. We will send them and monitor them. If that does not happen, we will, of course, ask for the funds back, because that is part of the commitment we are asking for. I believe that I have answered all the questions put by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u28	Thank you. Then we have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u29	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions. However, I have to say that the Minister seems to be somewhat armed in a number of themes, which I think, if you are looking for dialogue, you do not necessarily need to do so. At a time when someone is undermining a scientifically validated policy with different advice, you can say something about the qualities of that person in terms of background. I do not believe that this person should be present because the political debate is being held on this subject and not necessarily with the person who gave the opinion. There has been a hearing where a number of experts have been consulted who contradict each other about the Oostvaardersplassen. The moderator has attached an advice to that. I have just said something about his own scientific background or his lack of it, no more and no less. I didn't try to diffuse him somehow. I think that is also true of the rather harsh qualification given by the Minister: we have debated the hunting list and in fact that discussion is over. I don't think that's the case at all. I would like to recall the 2012 Green Keycard, which involved a large number of parties ranging from the Christian Union to D66, from the Labour Party to the VVD and the CDA. The PVV did not participate in the Green Chooser, but the PVV is known to reject it for the fun of killing animals, without social benefit or necessity. It was obvious that a very large majority in the House of Representatives wanted to abolish the pleasure hunt, but the Nature Act came as a package. Many parties didn't feel like voting the whole package away. So we've settled for a limited hunting list. It could've gotten worse. They have therefore acted as mayor in wartime and simply said that under the circumstances they should settle for this list. That does not mean that the discussion is over. When the Nature Act was adopted, it was also said that we need to evaluate what that is like. I would like to recall that the intrinsic value of animals is recognised. An animal has value, regardless of its usefulness to man. It is very difficult to see how the intrinsic value of animals could relate to killing those animals for fun. That really isn't from this time of year. I believe that there is every reason to reopen this discussion, especially if people take offense at the fact that large numbers of healthy animals are being shot off, as they are now in the Oostvaardersplassen. That's formally not even hunting, it's population management. Many people are touched by the fact that this intrinsic value of animals has no meaning. Because if those animals get in the way of people, they can be killed. It is very difficult to understand how that intrinsic value could be explained in a different way than as respecting those animals. Paul McCartney said that an animal's life is as important to that animal as my life for me. I think that's how we need to see it. It is not about a relationship between the interests of animals and the interests of people. The point is that an animal's life represents a value within itself. That seems to be being trampled on right now, especially in places where animals are shot for fun. For that reason, I would like to table the next motion. The President shall: Mr Koffeman, Mr Van Leeuwen, Mr Reuten, Mr Overbeek and Mr Köhler proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas five species of hare, rabbit, wild duck, pheasant and wood pigeon are hunted without being assessed for social use or necessity;]] [[Whereas the legal recognition of the intrinsic value of animals is at odds with the indiscriminate killing of such animals;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the wild list of free-hunting animals to zero species and to allow discards only in cases of danger to public health, significant damage or identifiable problem situations within the population for flora and/or fauna that cannot be solved in a less serious way,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-XIV-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u31	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. I give the floor to Mr Reuten.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am confident that if anyone is able to give a fundamental twist to this sector, that is this minister. I'd like to have said that in advance. I would like to say a few words about the issue of exports. Let me confine myself to Africa. I'm still talking about Europe. I am talking about Africa, in connection with the refugee problems of any kind. What's going on? European agriculture, including the Dutch, has been subsidised. Those subsidised products are exported to, among other things, Africa. This is disastrous for the self-sufficiency of the African agricultural sector. I think I have said enough. So I do not think it is appropriate to say that we are exporting our products and that that is good for those people, because that would solve the world food problem. No, it's counterproductive in this respect. Then there's another point. I have indicated that international trade is a major cause of CO emissions, and so is intra-European trade. It's not five to twelve, it's one to twelve, if you look at the climate reports. Something has to be done now. I think that the sector should now be promised that some changes will have to be made in the long term. Then there's the VAT. The rapporteurs say that the VAT change indicated is the most effective climate measure that can be envisaged for the short term. I would urge the Minister to discuss with the cabinet the need to raise the VAT on meat significantly and, if possible, to bring it to zero on fruit and vegetables. I would once again ask the Minister to at least discuss it with the cabinet. Finally, on the rules on manure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u33	Remember your time, Mr. Reuten, because your time is up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u34	Yes. The beneficial part of the sector is currently suffering from the fact that a limited part of the sector or controlled farms do not comply with the manure rules and that reflects the rest. If the Minister is in favour of the sector, she will have to ensure that there is also a random sample, otherwise she will continue to wander around saying that no one in the sector complies with the rules, and I do not think that is the case. There are many benevolent farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u35	Mr. Reuten, I really need to interrupt you, because you're way past your time now. Thank you, Mr. Reuten. I give the floor to Mr Binnema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the Minister's comprehensive reply. There are three points I would like to emphasise. We are very interested in the ongoing investigations into the effects of particulate matter and ammonia present in livestock farming, in relation to the Health Council. As soon as there are results, we would like to look forward to discussing them further. The same applies to the development of the delta plan for biodiversity. On the one hand, it is very nice that so many different parties are considering this issue. I would like to make a point that we have also discussed before. On the one hand, broad support is important. If so many different parties can agree with something, that is a very positive sign, I think. This can also lead to the measures needed, which are watering down and are going to take more time than would really be desirable, given the urgency of nature values and climate targets. Something similar applies to what the Minister rightly refers to as changing the way of working and thinking on the farm, which is absolutely necessary. Where is the balance between wanting to think, facilitating, stimulating and so on? Where do you have to say that certain methods of production and keeping animals, the ways in which agriculture is now set up, are not really desirable, and that they should be changed in a different direction by means of stricter regulation and tighter control, from the perspective of circular agriculture that we both share very clearly? It has also been said at European level about development cooperation and European affairs: it is strange that there is only a Secretary of State and not a Minister. That point about agriculture is also understandable. Perhaps we would have changed the order: food, nature and agriculture, but we have seen in Justice and Security and Security and Justice what this confusion of names entails. I think it is important to emphasise what the Minister says: agriculture is more than economic. Our main concern is how you can continue to connect this with that other major topic of EZK, namely climate, now that these worlds are in a way separated from each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u37	Thank you, Mr. Binnema. I ask the Minister if she has the opportunity to answer directly. That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u38	Food quality. And in that order, let me also say to Mr Binnema.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u39	Yes, the first time there was Food quality on my sheet and now there's Food safety. That's obviously...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u40	It's accepted, Mr. Chairman. Mr Koffeman made a number of comments on hunting. He said that many parties believe that the hunting of pleasure should be abolished. If that is the case, I am happy to see it, because I think that all those parties can judge that for themselves, especially now that there is the motion that Mr Koffeman has tabled with others. It asks for the wild list of free-hunting animals to be reduced to zero species and only for exceptional cases. I have just indicated that I see no reason to change that now. I think that debate has taken place at length. However, if Mr Koffeman is convinced that all the other parties do, I will see it again. Of course, I'm not frivolous about your Chamber's motions being passed. So I'll look into that. Mr Reuten once again called for attention to be paid to the food issue. He says: we need to go more that countries can solve it themselves, that they are capable of doing so themselves? Those are my free words for a moment. So do we. We have the most renowned university in the world in the field of agriculture and food. That university is active worldwide. Everywhere I go, they don't know the Netherlands, but Wageningen does; that's really true. Sometimes we underestimate the great influence our university has worldwide. He also helps think about that... By the way, the world's HBOs and MBOs have a real role to play; that is what I want to say. But we cannot say that this has solved the food problem. I wish. If only it were that simple, because then, I think, we would have solved it with each other a long time ago. We live in a fertile delta. We can be incredibly grateful for that. At the same time, it gives us a responsibility to the rest of the world to ensure that we can feed all mouths. With regard to the climate, I would say to Mr Binnema that the climate tables are still in full swing at the moment, including as regards agriculture. I agree with the government that, of course, agriculture and climate are compatible. In fact, ask the average farmer about climate change and he will be the first to say that he is affected by it. I think that last year's drought has been one of the examples of this. It is therefore in the interests of all of us to take steps towards the climate agreements we have made in the context of Paris; we must stick to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u41	One of my points was that the subsidised European agricultural sector competes with farmers in Africa, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u42	Let me give you an example. I was with the prime minister in Colombia last week. I myself saw the important role agriculture plays in the peace process. I've been there visiting coffee farmers. Those coffee farmers wanted to be able to earn a living with the production of coffee in a country where the cultivation of a different crop............................................................................................................................................................................................................. It was not always the farmers' free will to grow that other crop. Sometimes they really didn't have a choice. They were pressured by rebels to grow cocaine. Those farmers wanted to recreate their lives with the production of coffee. The Prime Minister has even issued certificates. It was so basic that it was for which piece of land which was a farmer, because it had long since been described in that country and because it is essential for the future of agriculture and for the future of families in that country. But those farmers export coffee, the coffee you and I drink here every day. That coffee doesn't grow in the Netherlands. The tea I have here is not from the Netherlands either. We also consume products from another country every day. It was precisely because these farmers could export that they could earn a living. As a ministry, we also make a small contribution to this. We've given a little bit of money to get them started and that's running now. I saw it with my own eyes. Export can therefore be a means of achieving peace. It is essential for these farmers to be able to produce and export and not to be forced away from the European market. Then it is essential that they have access to the European market. That's what we're gonna do with each other. I said what I said about the VAT debate. I believe that we continue to disagree on this point. This also concerns the random sample of manure. We can keep talking back and forth, but that's what I think we just don't agree on. I can tell Mr Binnema that I can send your Chamber the studies on particulate matter and ammonia at the time they are present. I will. The same applies to the Deltaplan Biodiversity. That's not a plan of mine, and it's not offered to me either. It's a plan of society that allows me to take advantage of it. That's what I'm talking about. So it's a little complicated to send it to you, because I don't get it officially or have it written. But I'm just guessing that we're gonna have discussions about this. I like to see them. As far as climate and agriculture are concerned, I look forward to giving birth to the tables that are now working on agriculture in order to take steps for the future of the same agriculture that will benefit everyone. Mr. Chairman. That was my contribution. Do I have to make an official judgment on the motion? The motion requests that the list be brought back to zero with only the exceptions. I'm dissuading the motion. There's no reason to tighten the list now. We had a debate not so long ago, I think it was two years ago under the Nature Protection Act. But the moment your room feels otherwise, I hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u43	Finally, a brief interruption, Mr. Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u44	I first heard the Minister say: I like to hear the judgment of the Chamber. That's actually a different judgment...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u45	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u46	At first, you said: if that is the view of the Chamber, then who am I to not carry out that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u47	No. I did report that I'm deceiving that motion. That is the judgment I gave in my speech. I see no reason to tighten that list now. It has recently been established, a year or two ago, in the process of examining the Nature Protection Act. I see no reason to change that now. In Mr Koffeman's words, he was convinced that a majority of this Chamber thought as this motion was. I have only indicated that if that is the outcome of the vote, I will look forward to it. But I certainly dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u48	Finally. I did not say 'the majority of this Chamber' because I am not making any forecasts about it at all. I said that in the 2012 elections, a large majority of all political parties promised the electorate to abolish the yacht. That is different from what we have here in this Chamber, so I certainly did not take an advance on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u49	I think we can leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u50	I've come to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the bill and on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-12-11-eerstekamer-13.u51	I now suspend the sitting for a few moments in anticipation of the Secretary of State for Finance and the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
