ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on the informal summit on 24 June 2018. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Justice and Security and give Mr Van Ojik the floor on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad the Prime Minister's here. And I'm glad the Secretary of State is here. I have the first question for him, because he was in Italy this week, as we know, one of the big stakeholders at the summit next weekend, so maybe he can tell us about what was on the agenda for his conversation and what came out of it. Madam President. It is perhaps a good thing to say that the context of this debate is not so much that, as in 2015, there are now unexpectedly very large groups of refugees coming to Europe. The context is more of a political one: a political crisis in Germany and an emerging movement throughout the European Union in Italy, in Hungary, in Austria, in Slovenia, towards an increasingly tough policy, putting the humanity of our migration policy at stake. However, GroenLinks also believes that migration should be manageable, precisely in order to maintain humanity. That is what we are looking for: a balance between humanity and realism, between humanity and manageability. This will require a broad approach: addressing root causes, border surveillance, stopping and returning those who have no chance of asylum, tackling smugglers hard recently, the Netherlands has taken an initiative in the Security Council, complimenting them on legal routes and asylum for those who really need protection. Only such a broad approach works. My question to the Prime Minister is: is he going to be able to support this broad approach in the next week, when he sees his colleagues twice? Is he going to monitor that balance between humanity and manageability that we need so badly? Madam President. That balance sheet has not yet been included in what has been leaked about the plans. Let me give you two examples. First, the extra support to the Libyan Coast Guard. It brings people she picks up from the sea back to Libya. In Libya, those arrested refugees end up in the camps which Minister Kaag said on behalf of the cabinet a while ago: they must close as quickly as possible, because the conditions in these camps are inhumane. I'm not going into any more details. The second thing that pops out is the plan to do so, and you can all hear different stories about this to bring the refugees who are on their way to Europe back to the edges of Europe, with a landing mechanism for those who are being rescued from the sea. This applies as long as it is not in the European Union. I have three questions for the Prime Minister. The first question is: how realistic are these plans? Which countries are we talking to right now? And where are we with the agreements on bringing people outside the EU to have them apply for asylum there? How realistic is it? My second question is: how desirable is it that we should make such agreements with countries that are often vulnerable in a wide range of areas themselves, for example as regards the economy, security or political situation, which is often unstable? How desirable is it that we should bring refugees who are on their way to Europe to such countries? My third and final question is: how lawful, how legal is it actually? Are the plans circulating in line with, for example, the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, the UN Convention on Refugee or the European Convention on Human Rights? Can the Minister guarantee that, whatever agreement is made, that agreement will never conflict with the international conventions I have mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u3	There's been an interruption, but I think you've been finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u4	That's right, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u5	Then I suggest you finish that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u6	I had one more question. It is about the debate which has been initiated, if I may put it this way, by Italy in particular, on the mechanism of redistribution within Europe. It seems that the Netherlands is seeking to restore the Dublin agreements. This means that refugees must return to the country where they were first registered. How does this relate to the efforts of Italy and other countries to distribute refugees more fairly across Europe? Thank you. I'm done with my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u7	One of Mr Van Ojik's appeals is that all agreements within treaties must be within our rule of law. That is almost literally quoted from the coalition agreement. That seems to me to be asking for the familiar road. Intriguingly, at the beginning of his contribution, I found that Mr Van Ojik mentioned five points to be met by an integrated European refugee policy. That went from tackling the smugglers to helping those who are really running from war and misery. In short, it was about coherence. Is there something in the cabinet policy that makes him feel that this is not being answered? For today, I have re-examined the coalition agreement. I thought: it's actually exactly that connection that I actually liked GroenLinks even more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u8	I am always prepared to help with the formulation of cabinet proposals, if Mr Pechtold appreciates it. We have recently had an extensive exchange of views with the Secretary of State on his migration note. The main difference between what GroenLinks is in favour of and what the cabinet is in favour of is that we do not support the policy of returning people who have arrived on their way to Europe or even in Europe to safe third countries to apply for asylum. Tunisia is often mentioned, Algeria is often mentioned and even Albania I read in the newspaper this week. Given the distribution of the refugee population around the world at the moment, where 85% of refugees are already included in the region in extremely vulnerable countries, we do not think it is fair to add a little more to it and to send people who ask for asylum back to third countries to apply for asylum. That is the big difference between what GroenLinks advocates and what is stated in the coalition agreement and also in the memorandum of Secretary of State Harbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u9	I think that this is also a difference, but the consequences of GroenLinks' attitude may be questioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u10	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u11	Fortunately it is now a bit quiet, but still sail those gambled boats. If only 10% to 20% of them are genuine refugees and the rest are taking an economic chance, I would like to see every individual, but we cannot do that, and GroenLinks also believes that this means putting many, many lives at risk with a system of these boats but tolerate them, while the shelter that is possible in the region is also accompanied by re-housing. So where you're crazy enough to have a better eye on the group and can also include the real refugees in a housing program, GroenLinks says: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u12	Two answers in the direction of Mr Pechtold. The first is that he may not have listened carefully to the first part of my speech. On the contrary, I have advocated a very broad approach. I have literally said that you must stop people on their way to Europe, to the EU, who often leave Senegal or Côte d'Ivoire or from those other countries as early as possible. I fully agree with Mr Pechtold. That is a lot of countries and the people who come from there have virtually zero chances of asylum. So stop them as early as possible, preferably in Senegal itself, preferably in Côte d'Ivoire itself and otherwise in the first countries where they come. Get in line. Get in line. I have literally said stop and let those who have no chance of asylum return, but do not wait until those people are in Europe. Don't wait till they're in Europe. My second comment is that the coalition agreement does not distinguish at all between political refugees, those with political motives, and those with economic motive when sending people back to safe third countries in Europe. We'll do that. And I agree. People who have economic motives must return, however legitimate these motives may be from a different perspective. But there's no difference between us. I want to catch people much sooner before they get in those boats. So it is a reproach because that often affects us that we allow these people to cross in boats in no way affects the plans of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u13	Let this issue be precisely the point where negotiations with GroenLinks failed about a year ago on the formation of a cabinet. That was then on the issue of whether refugees should first come to Europe and then receive treatment for an asylum application and go back or that is what you can say earlier, and that is now the European proposal 'no, they are going back to Africa'. Then the great motivation of the leader of GroenLinks for that break was that this came under a moral lower limit for GroenLinks. Does this mean that the European Commission's proposals for GroenLinks fall below a moral threshold?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u14	I think I get to choose my own words. I have just made it clear to the Prime Minister that I have questions about the proposals that are being made on this point, which are indeed very similar to what you wrote in the coalition agreement, about their desirability, their legal logic, so to speak, and the realism of those proposals. Because there is no country with which we are seriously discussing this issue. So I have three very serious problems with these proposals, yes. And that is one of the reasons why we said no to the proposals you said yes to a year ago. You may, but I assume you also give me the right to disagree with those proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u15	In response, it is interesting that you also explicitly say: I have my own words. You do not repeat the words'moral lower limit and below' and I find that very pleasurable because, once again, that bombastic language had to mask the departure of the negotiating table. Disagree. My question is as follows, Mr President, otherwise you would see this as a question and I will soon be through my questions. I would almost say that this is the second part of question one. No? Oh, too bad, tried! What I still do not understand in the position of GroenLinks is that you say: we must prevent the boats from going out into the sea. So we can prevent someone from leaving Libya, but the moment he paid his money because of that same smuggler and is at sea, you don't say: we're going back to that country. Then suddenly he has to go to Europe. I don't understand, because that's exactly what you're helping that human smuggler. 'Cause there's only one thing he'll have to do. Sell a ticket virtually for a lot of thousands of euros and make sure the boat sails. He has his money, Europe has a problem and the refugee has a very difficult future. Then I say: with the proposals that are there, no matter how start-up, it is much better to do the care there, the treatment there, the divorce there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u16	It is a bit of a transparent attempt by Mr Buma to suggest a difference between the qualifications that my group chairman used when it was about the cabinet formation a year ago and what I am saying now. I am now holding a debate with the Prime Minister on proposals that are now before us. I said, "I choose my own words for that." Mr Buma knows that in no way, but I would like to mention the qualifications given by my group chairman a year ago. Now to Libya, because that is what Mr Buma is talking about. I object to a coastguard bringing people back to a country where they are then put in camps, whose Foreign Trade and Development Minister, I presume, said on behalf of this cabinet, should close those camps as soon as possible. To this day, refugees picked up by the Libyan Coast Guard from the sea are being returned to those camps. I inform almost every week if the situation in those camps improves because I would like nothing more than that. But I can say to Mr Buma that the situation is just as bad as it was when Minister Kaag told them to close six months ago. It seems to me that it is wrong to call this a moral minimum, and everyone chooses to use their own words in order to do so even more, as is now proposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u17	I do not think that is quite the answer to Mr Buma's question, because Mr Buma's question was: you want both; you may want to support that selection at the edges of Africa, but you want to maintain the system as we know it now, with an asylum procedure in Europe and in the Netherlands. That's your bet, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u18	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u19	In the package ahead, if you want both, the boats continue to come, people continue to drown and the earning model of the smugglers remains in place. Because as long as you say, as long as GroenLinks says that that route remains open, people will be attracted to Europe and those smugglers will earn their money. So don't you realize that as long as you both want, the boats keep coming, people keep drowning? Shouldn't you also opt for the model that now stands for Europe, regardless of the framework conditions attached to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u20	Yes, well, good: no, Mr. Chairman, no! Because I find... I have just said this and I would like to say it again, although I do not think it is necessary to outline a wide range of measures that I think we should take to prevent people from crossing Europe. I have also said, even at the request of Mr Pechtold just now, that it is of course the case that all those who cross and have no right to protection in Europe must return. We've got to get them back. And that will have an additional deterrent effect. That will have an extra deterrent effect. But I do believe, unlike Mr Voordewind, that people who cross Europe and really need protection should not be sent back to Tunisia to apply for asylum, but have the right to apply for asylum. That is the difference, and Mr Voordewind knows this very well between what is written in the coalition agreement and Mr Harbers' note and what I am advocating here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u21	The conclusion is that Mr Van Ojik will keep the boats coming as long as we maintain a full asylum procedure. That is separate from the fact that you always have to check whether it is safe for people to go back. That's also what the government agreement says. There's an abbreviated procedure and people from very different continents could come here, think of the Dolmatovs of this world: for that, the asylum procedure simply remains valid. But as long as we keep the route open for people from Africa, when we have selection centres there, they keep coming. Then you give a bonus for the smugglers. So you should start choosing your own model after all. What are you for? Are you now for selection at the gate in Africa? Or do you say, "Keep coming, we're gonna make the choice here in the end?" While you know, it has just been mentioned that 90% of the people sitting on those boats are economic migrants. Those aren't refugees. You'll have to make a choice eventually.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u22	I make the choice as I think it should be made: try to do everything in my power to prevent people crossing the Mediterranean and once people are here, give them the right to seek protection in Europe. And the people who do not get that protection in Europe, because they belong to the 80% to 90% for whom asylum is not feasible, should return to their country of origin. So I don't see anything... Mr Voordewind or anyone else can continue to say that I have a choice to make. I should like to make a choice by setting out a whole package of measures. I only make a different choice than Mr Voordewind. I believe that people who have arrived here in Europe and who are seeking protection here should seek more protection, which does not mean that they will get it, but they should not be sent back to a third country, whether Tunisia or Algeria or Albania or whatever, in order to enter into proceedings there. That is what the cabinet wants, and that is what is in the proposals that will be circulating for next Sunday. And for a number of reasons which I have just mentioned, I strongly object to the desirability, feasibility and legal validity of this. Not Mr Voordewind. That's his right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u23	Of course, there are no perfect solutions, nor can I hear Mr Van Ojik say otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u24	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u25	He knows that well. He was a migration envoy, and he's traveled the world to talk about this subject. However, it is important how we conduct this discussion with each other and in particular what we may or may not blame each other. That is why I ask the following questions on purpose slightly hypothetically, but that is necessary. Suppose it succeeds in setting it up in such a third country in accordance with the wishes of GroenLinks. That is to say, international law is respected, conditions are good, people have perspective and reception is under the supervision of UNHCR and the European Union. Then Mr Van Ojik agrees with me that it is not below the moral limit if you would allow people to wait for their procedure there?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u26	I have, and you don't even have to have been there for that... If you look at what it means... There are currently 65 million refugees in the world. 85% to 90% of these refugees are currently being received in the region, in countries that are extremely vulnerable, whether they are Jordan or Lebanon or Turkey, or those that are now referred to as future reception countries. Then I think you run very big risks by saying: we're going to try to make the conditions there completely ideal. Nothing in these countries is ideal! If I may mention one point in the direction of Mr Asscher. We are constantly talking about support in the Netherlands. What do you think of the support in those countries? What do you think of the carrier falcon in Tunisia? What do you think of the support in Albania? We could say, "We don't care. We make a deal, we pay well for it, we give them trade benefits, and then they might come on our side. After all, Turkey has done the same, but I find that terrifying!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u27	I am not arguing at all that there are risks involved, but we all know that something must be done. This refugee crisis calls for a European approach, because we see that boat floating. The question is, however, that this is important, because it indicates how we judge each other here, whether or not GroenLinks finds it below the moral limit if it succeeds in doing it decently and humanely. Those words were used and they hit me. It was just as well about the Turkey deal of the previous cabinet, which nobody said was ideal. I wonder what the party that said it was below the moral limit thinks a year later. I don't think you think so at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u28	Well, I wouldn't assume that too soon. I have just said to Mr Buma: I am using my own words here in this debate. I said I think it's irresponsible. The point is that everyone pulls their moral lower limit in their own way. And now that it's about the moral lower limit of GroenLinks, it's about her departure from the cabinet formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u29	I wasn't there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u30	You were not there, no, but you refer to the words used by the Group chairman of GroenLinks, also on my behalf. Let me make this very clear. He did the same on my behalf. I have no desire to distance myself from that. Everyone has their own moral lower limit, that seems pretty clear to me. In this debate on concrete proposals on the table, a year later, I said to Mr Buma what I said to Mr Asscher: here I would like to choose my own words. If the impression were given that Mr Klaver did not speak on my behalf a year ago, that would be a very wrong impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u31	It is of course fine that words are used in emotion and that a year later a seasoned politician like the Van Ojik says: I choose my own words. Then the good understander knows that this has been causing discomfort to GroenLinks for a year, and it seems that she now needs to stop explaining it to the moral minimum. With GroenLinks I also want to look a bit at the future. You can now see that if you have to work together, whether in a cabinet in the Netherlands or in Europe, both GroenLinks and D66 are always pro-Europeans looking for things to do as well as possible with support, under guarantees. Now I look around here and I actually see GroenLinks just flapping on her own, saying: this can't be done, this can't be done. My question is: would GroenLinks ever agree to good reception and the distinction between economic and war refugees in the region? Would GroenLinks ever agree to this kind of plans in coherence, in which there is perspective and re-housing? And if that happens again in Dutch and international treaties, as Mr Asscher also said, will GroenLinks ever agree? Not only is GroenLinks isolated here in the Netherlands with that position, but also in Europe. And then you've got nothing. Then you stand by, Mr Van Ojik, and as GroenLinks you have your so-called principle superiority but you don't buy anything for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u32	New qualifications, such as "principal superiority," are now on the table. It would be silly, but I can of course ask Mr Pechtold exactly the same. That's when he drew his line. He had allies and we had no supporters for that line at the time. That doesn't always mean your line is wrong. The fact that I am here alone now, as Mr Pechtold says, is painful. I find it painful that I'm standing here alone, yes. But that is no reason for me to change my position. Does Mr Pechtold think so? I wish I had allies in this room. Maybe they're here, but they haven't spoken yet. I am the first speaker, so I am still looking forward to the rest of the debate. You will understand that I will not speculate on what will happen in future with the positions of GroenLinks in conceivable situations. I would very much like to, but I really cannot answer that. That depends on so many things.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u33	These are not answers to the questions. A few colleagues are trying now. When we hear GroenLinks, there is always heavy criticism of other parties, whether they are in the conservative flank or in the progressive-left flank. I don't hear what the alternatives are. I'm told we have to find solutions. I hear people can't drown anymore. Of the status quo, maintaining the misery of today, GroenLinks only says: all other parties are wrong; everyone in Europe is wrong; we know better. If you introduce "moral lower limit" yourself as a term and take it back slowly, I think I should put moral superiority at GroenLinks and ask what this means for the future. What does this mean for an asylum seeker, for someone who is really looking for a safe place in Europe, for a family who has fled terror, for someone who has to get a chance here because of his orientation? What does GroenLinks say to that? Well, it is a pity that the rest of the House of Representatives does not agree with us and it is a pity that the rest of Europe does not agree with us, but we do remain on that level of balance and are not prepared to take part in this extremely difficult matter. That was hard for Rutte II, with the PvdA. That's hard now. Parties take responsibility within international treaties, but GroenLinks says: that is not enough for us; we know better. And the fugitive continues to risk his life.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u34	Mr Pechtold knows very well that he can blame GroenLinks for everything, but not that we have not been or have not been willing to think with him. If we go back to that time: we sat at the table for two months, including in his presence. To be honest, that accusation doesn't make any sense. I'm gonna let that go. What I find interesting about Mr Pechtold's question is what this means for the refugee. That's exactly what this is about, Mr. Pechtold. What does it mean for the fugitive? I'll tell him. I'll go back to what's in the coalition agreement. If that refugee in need of protection now arrives in Europe and has travelled through a safe third country, such as Tunisia or Algeria, then he goes back to that country and can apply for asylum there. That's what the coalition agreement says. I didn't write that down, but you wrote it down. When it comes to GroenLinks, such a person has the right to apply for asylum in Europe. That's the big difference. Mr Pechtold says that GroenLinks has no alternative. I think I have mentioned it three times: root causes, border surveillance and reception in the region. Yeah, we both do. D66 and GroenLinks therefore agree on a lot of things. We just don't agree on one thing. Mr Pechtold asked for it. What's the difference for the fugitive? At GroenLinks, that person can apply for asylum in Europe. He is sent back to Tunisia with Mr Pechtold. He may apply for asylum there. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u35	I find that I have not yet completed my first question, so a little tail. This is fundamental and that is why I come forward again. I admit it has something to do with these negotiations. In the words "moral lower limit," where this came under, it was decided that there is no compromise. That's why GroenLinks ran away. Theoretically, that could have meant a new election, because we didn't know it would work after that. GroenLinks has set up a very hard line. You can say a year later that you do not use those words, but this was a moral lower limit. I think that almost all parties here and Europe think that this can be done. Assume that something is going to happen in this direction and that at least every next cabinet will say that it is going to do so with the CDA, but I also think for the others - we are going to do so with a united Europe. I would like to add that the consequence is that when this is a moral lower limit, we do not even have to start negotiating with GroenLinks. That is the difference from the fact that you do not wish to pronounce it. This will always be there. This will be the key to new asylum policies. You're saying we're against it, but we're willing to talk about it? Then we have a point, because then we'll talk about it. It's just two and one: either it's a moral lower limit and you say that here too, and then we know where we're at, or it's not one and then we know where we're at. And quite honestly, GroenLinks doesn't have to try, because this is going to be the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u36	I do not believe that Mr Buma in this country will decide who will be sitting at the formation table and what views one should have in order to join the formation table. I honestly don't believe that. We will see that, and if Mr Buma agrees, we will see that at that time. Then we will see if Mr Buma can determine whether GroenLinks can sit at that table with the positions he has. We'll just wait and see. I am waiting for that, quite frankly, with a great deal of confidence, and I do not think that Mr Buma will then decide. Then over the moral lower limit. I said two things. Just for the record, Mr Buma, I said that the chairman of the Group of the Green Left spoke on my behalf a year ago. So I'm not gonna distance myself from what he said. On the contrary, I say that he has spoken on my behalf. When I was asked whether I was asked in this debate for a number of questions that I asked the Prime Minister... Oh, the Prime Minister's leaving for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u37	Yes, but the Secretary of State is present.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u38	... using the qualification morally lower limit, I have said that I use my own words in this debate. I would ask Mr Buma to keep that very separate. So I am not abandoning what was said by my group chairman a year ago; he spoke on my behalf. But in this debate we are a year ahead and we are talking about the proposals that are now before us. I would like to use my own words. How we're gonna get to a cabinet later...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u39	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u40	That's what I said. That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u41	I have a question for Mr Van Ojik to keep things apart. When he talks about refugees, can I assume that he means that migrants who come and want to come to Europe for economic reasons are excluded? But does he realize that if everyone comes here, you can try to make that distinction, but they're already here?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u42	I would like us to really do much more to prevent people from leaving Côte d'Ivoire, Nigeria, Senegal, all those countries where, when they finally come here, no one is entitled to asylum. Then you have to tackle root causes, do border surveillance and organise guided return. It's all happening, but it's happening very slowly. If you would do much more and invest much more in that, I am convinced that you can let the economic migrants, much sooner than when they get in those boats, go back home. I also think that this should be said, let me make this clear to Mr Van Rooijen and to a number of other colleagues. It has to be done. GroenLinks also believes that economic migrants are not entitled to a residence permit in the Netherlands. Let me make that very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u43	Do you recognise that, as long as these economic migrants come to Europe because there are no arrangements and opportunities to stay there, we agree that they are coming here? That means you're gonna have a very large group of people here who know for sure they have to go back. But if you can't stop them from doing that, then it's not human to let them come here first, with the certainty that they have to go back?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u44	We don't invite people to come here. In fact, we have to try to stop people with economic motives and make sure they don't come. What we differ on is that, in the view of GroenLinks, the people with a political motive who are asking for protection here should have the right to apply for asylum and obtain asylum if their motive is found to be justified. Of course, you must try to stop economic migrants as early as possible, but it is already not possible to get Tunisians to take back Tunisia, to have Algeria take back Algerians and to have Morocco take back Moroccans. Let alone that we would succeed in getting those countries to take back Nigerians, Ivorians and Senegalese. I'm very sceptical about that. I also think it is undesirable for reasons that I have just explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u45	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. Then I will go to Mr Azmani on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u46	Mr. Chairman. The debate on a European migration policy has been going on for far too long. Europe needs to be ready before a next major wave of migration begins, before more countries, such as Italy, refuse to let migrants in any longer, before it increases the pressure on other countries. We must unite our European hands. Now we can hold on to what we thought was right, but then we can create a new reality that will not become more humane or we can finally let go of the old system and work towards a new system, a better system, a more humane system. The present system is inhumane. It has to be stopped. It is not for nothing that I advocated in 2015 that refugees should be received in our own region, by making agreements with safe third countries outside the European Union, including in North Africa, and by possibly working with resettlement programmes. It is simply the only way to prevent refugees from risking their lives in order to reach Europe. There's no other way. Europe has already embraced this policy change as a mid-term strategy in the Council conclusions of 14 September 2015. However, it is already a number of years before the European spirits are ripe for this. After all, it feels so natural: people in need help you. But we, as politicians, have the right question of how we do it best. That is not by keeping an inhuman asylum system in the air, which encourages people to travel in a life-threatening way, or by providing shelter and shelter for everyone. It may look sympathetic, but it's naive. It's naive, because our country simply can't handle those numbers of migrants. It's naive because you don't know who you're getting in. And it's naive, because that way Europe's appeal continues to exist and thus the tough business of human smugglers. Mr. Chairman. However, we are now three years ahead and we are now on the eve of a European summit, also next week, where this plan will be discussed. I really don't care what you call the plan: the Samsom plan, the Kurz plan, the Tusk plan or the Azmani plan. Anyone who embraces the plan can give it their own name. In fact, I would like to, because this plan is the only way to protect refugees from the dangerous crossing. This plan is the only way to control migration towards Europe and the Netherlands. This plan is the only way to really shape a migration policy in which we determine how many refugees can be included in our country, in which we know in advance who will enter and in which we can determine what we can handle as a country. Mr. Chairman. As long as there is division, there is no decisiveness. That is precisely why the VVD greatly appreciates the efforts made by our Prime Minister and the Secretary of State, who once again made every effort to bring parties together. Can the Prime Minister explain what expectations he is going to the informal summit on Sunday? How is the coordination between the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker, who called for this informal summit on Sunday, and the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Tusk, who indicated that he would not be taking part in this summit because he is doing a round in Europe in preparation for next week's summit? Does the Prime Minister also see it as his task to convince parties that it is really too late for existing rules to be drawn up and that a complete reform of the asylum system will no longer be allowed to be postponed? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u47	Thank you. Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u48	The Azmani plan is already a few years old, so I would ask Mr Azmani to refresh my memory. Does the Azmani plan include not only what now exists in Europe: asylum procedures in the region, centres in the region, but also unconditional investment in the region? So not just putting asylum seekers away in Africa, but really investing heavily in the region to improve that reception. And what amount does that include?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u49	That depends on the situation, but I have never denied that this requires large investments, not only from the Netherlands, but from the entire international community.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u50	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pechtold, who speaks on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u51	Madam President. In 2015 we were attacked by the high influx of refugees. Migration remains one of the biggest challenges for Europe. Europe urgently needs an answer, solutions that respect one of our most important values, namely that people are always welcome to flee war or terror. So here we make a clear distinction between people who are looking for a better life and people who are really on the run. A European solution is only possible if we work together and take responsibility and show solidarity. A solution also requires realism and reasonableness. That is why it is so important that there should be a breakthrough in the negotiations on a common European asylum system. Once again, there's pressure on the kettle. Italy's new right-wing populist government, problems in Merkel's coalition, Orban's increasingly rabid legislation, as well as the inhumane images from the US, have brought European migration policy back to the top of the agenda. Compliments for Donald Tusk. As President of the European Council, he was right to take up the gauntlet. The question now is what his proposal involves and how it fits in with the long-term vision of European migration policy. As far as I am concerned, the stakes are clear. Real refugees must always be able to go to Europe safely. Economic migrants reporting as asylum seekers must return. We do not yet know all the details of Tusk's plan, but it must not be a means to ward off real refugees. It must provide security for refugees and prevent them, and I would remind Mr Van Ojik that people are risking their lives in a boat on the Mediterranean. It sounds positive, but I do have a lot of questions. Can the Prime Minister indicate which issues are at the top on Sunday? Is he expecting surprises? Does he expect demands from countries, like Italy, to come at all? Does he have a sharp eye on what force field we're gonna end up in on Sunday? How are we, as Europe, going to ensure that the countries we are going to negotiate with are really safe? Is Europe really going to provide practical and financial support so that, in accordance with the government agreement, these countries meet the conditions laid down in the Refugee Convention? Can I count on our Prime Minister to put these demands hard on the table? Then there is another crucial point that is needed to support this plan. Is Europe really going to accept those with genuine refugee status generously? And do we really ensure that the agreements that are made on this issue in Europe are enforced? Is the Prime Minister prepared to set a good example as the Netherlands when it comes to housing from third countries, but also when it comes to relocation from Italy and Greece? What will be the Prime Minister's commitment to legal migration? Is there any thought of using temporary work visas to encourage countries to take back their outlawed nationals? Finally. I'm trying to keep people from risking their lives by getting into crappy boats. Europe is too divided about the right approach and this must be stopped as soon as possible. This Prime Minister has shown to have authority in this area and to be able to force breakthroughs. As far as I'm concerned, he should have that experience on Sunday. Maybe I am asking for the familiar path, but can he confirm that he is going to ensure that all the material conditions of the Refugee Convention are met in accordance with the government agreement? Is he going to be Prime Minister with our coalition agreement in his pocket and not on the vistas anymore, or should I call it "visions"? The one I heard him sketching last night as leader of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u52	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u53	Mr. Chairman. Europe is throwing it over a different path. At least, that's what the first messages look like. Asylum seekers will now receive shelter outside the EU and genuine refugees will be able to go to Europe from there, the rest will not. Economic migrants remain outside the EU. As far as the SGP is concerned, that is a good line, as we have always argued. We are convinced that this is better for everyone, because the real refugee will be staying in Europe for as long as necessary. Economic migrants, who do not already have a chance of having a residence status, are excluded from the EU so that they do not end up in illegality. That's not good for them either. After all, there is no effective return policy in the EU and they will continue to travel around Europe without any perspective. The people of Europe will be more supportive of the reception of refugees, and there will be an end to illegal smuggling through the Mediterranean, which is making a lot of money from criminal traffickers. On that last point, my colleague Roelof Bishop asked written questions the day before yesterday. My question to the Prime Minister is very simple. Is he going to stand up for this line I have just outlined within the EU? In other words, what will his contribution be at the European Summit? I would like to give the Prime Minister three more points for the European summit. One. Support the proposal to accommodate asylum seekers outside the EU and only offer genuine refugees temporary residence in the EU. Two. Refers to the EU Summit for an effective European return policy for economic migrants. Reports show that there is hardly any successful return. Finally, with a wink, I would like to give the Prime Minister not too much to expect from the summit next Sunday. For as the old saying is: Sunday work is not strong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u54	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u55	Mr. Chairman. One in a hundred citizens of the world is now on the run. We see scorching scenes all over the world. Last week, where a boat with 629 men, women and children was floating around, refused by the new Italian Government, another boat was refused, to underline once again that Europe has not been able to find a humane, decent response to the migration crisis. This leads to far-reaching consequences. We see Orbán, who criminalizes aid to refugees. We see the Italian Government and Minister Salvini, who talks in fairly fascist terms about migrants and about Roma. We are seeing a government crisis in slow motion in Germany, our main partner in Europe. But most importantly, 34,000 people have already drowned in the Mediterranean. A mass grave under our eyes. British newspaper The Guardian has published all the names. So it is high time we came up with a decent European response. The Labour Party thinks this is what this is about: make sure that you always help people in need and that you do it in a way that protects the welfare state that we have built here. The Labour Party, together with a number of other social democratic parties in Europe, believes that an approach should be based on four elements. One. Make agreements with third countries on safe reception in the region and invest in a dignified existence there. Perspective. Safety for women and girls. Possibilities of education. Possibilities to earn a living. Two. Ensure an effective return policy for migrants who are not entitled to protection here. Do so on the basis of fair and strict agreements with countries of origin. Three. Break through the model of smugglers by working on an ambitious programme of resettlement from the camps, offering protection to the most vulnerable in Europe: minors, religious minorities, lhbti. Do so on the basis of a European solidarity system that everyone participates in, including those countries that regard Europe as a cafeteria where you only order the court you like. And four. Take the root causes. Migration is a tragedy, first and foremost for the migrant. Make sure we do something about inequality, the lack of perspective, the lack of quality of life. Come up with a marshal plan for Africa. Make fair trade agreements and put in the money needed for this. That too is an obligation for Europe. Mr. Chairman. I have the following questions for the Prime Minister. One. Is he prepared to argue for such an approach at the summit on Sunday, which not only resolves the political crisis in the short term, but takes into account the long term? Two. Is he prepared to argue in favour of a system of solidarity, which means that countries which do not cooperate in the next European budget will cut the MFF in jargon? Three. Is he prepared to advocate greater investment in the same European budget? There is currently a deficit of 4 billion in the camps in the region. That could lead to a next wave of people who have to run, because hunger is breaking out. Is he prepared to ensure that Europe not only looks at the border but also across the border? Finally. Is he still prepared, I assume, but it must be confirmed that it is necessary to insist on agreements with third countries in accordance with the international human rights conventions, so that we can agree with them with confidence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u56	Many thanks for all these proposals. The proposals this week, for your part, also included a proposal that you do not mention but which is a breakthrough, namely a flexible ceiling for the number of refugees that Europe should receive, depending on the number of refugees in the world. That is also called a 'quota'. That's a less fun word, but the word is called. Is that indeed the aim, namely a maximum number of refugees related to the number of refugees in the world? Will Mr Asscher give this to the Prime Minister for next Sunday?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u57	Sure. I think the combination of helping more people in need and ensuring manageability means that you will have to work with a flexible ceiling. How would you do that? By making arrangements in that resettlement program. The coalition agreement talks about 500 to 750. Much more will be needed on a European scale. In that programme, you have to make arrangements to include the most vulnerable refugees in Europe, but you do so on the basis of a ceiling. Why is that flexible? Because you have to take into account what's happening in the world. If there is a civil war on our borders, we will have to do more; I think we agree on that too. But that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u58	Finally, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u59	I'm gonna do that as compactly as possible. This requires at least an amendment to the Refugee Convention, because it means that the first one above that ceiling will no longer enter Europe and cannot ask for asylum at the door. Does Mr Asscher realize that too? And is he therefore prepared to plead with me from now on for an adaptation of the Refugee Convention which makes it possible to say: this is our fair share; more people we cannot accept?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u60	I do not agree with Mr Buma. I believe that the Refugee Convention requires us to provide protection and not send people back into danger. We must never deviate from that. We must never deviate from that. What does that mean? How would that work? That means that if people get asylum here, you will set a lower flexible ceiling. But as far as I'm concerned, and I also hope as far as the CDA is concerned, we are not going to send people back into danger. Only the Refugee Convention tells us to provide security for people. It does not give an absolute right to citizenship in the Netherlands. That's a misunderstanding I hear too often.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u61	Now I understand from reports that Mr Asscher has also looked at the model in Denmark and that he has been there. What has Mr Asscher learned from Danish policy which could also be useful for Dutch policy? And what isn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u62	I invited the Danish, Italian, Belgian and Austrian Social Democratic parties in the Netherlands to discuss this, because I believe that we must come up with a humane, European solution. I have just outlined the results of this. These are the four principles I mentioned: addressing the root causes, improving the situation in the region, an effective return policy for people who are not entitled to protection and an ambitious resettlement policy for the most vulnerable. We agree on this, and that is what the European approach must be based on, not on one of them. We don't have to pick one thing. I wonder if Mr Kuzu can support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u63	In the second part of my question, I asked what he did not agree on. When I look at Danish policy, the Danish Social Democrats are very clearly suggesting that asylum seekers are not welcome. They can't go back into the country, even if they're refugees. They are deported to countries in North Africa. That is a proposal from the Danish Social Democrats, and I wonder whether the Dutch Social Democrats will not do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u64	I have just outlined, thanks to the interruption of Mr Buma, for which I thank you, what the Labour Party's course is on this point: helping more people in need, while giving you manageability. Well, that doesn't seem so strange to me either. The welfare state that has been built cannot be without boundaries. That's my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u65	Mr Kuzu, third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u66	Third question, indeed. We have seen a proposal from the Danish Social Democrats. I have just made a very clear reference to what the Danish Social Democrat wants. I'm asking a very simple question. Do the Dutch Social Democrats distance themselves from the Danish Social Democrats when it comes to asylum policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u67	The last time I checked it, Mr Kuzu was not a Danish Social Democrat and is therefore not the one who puts forward the proposals of the Danish Social Democrats. I am not at all touched by his interpretation of the proposals of the Danish Social Democrats. Finally, I spoke extensively to my colleague, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, last Monday. I know what they are proposing and I tell you that we agree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u68	Mr Asscher keeps running from the questions. I am not here as a representative of the Danish Social Democrats. This is a proposal that the Danish Social Democrats have made. I see in Mr Asscher's approach that he encourages the government from the PvdA to agree on European policy, but that he does not agree with his own social democratic family in Europe on a very essential point: the way refugees are treated when they arrive at the border. The Danish Social Democrats will say: you can go back to North Africa. I want to know whether Mr Asscher agrees or not. Does Mr Asscher think that when a refugee arrives at the Dutch border, he should be told: go back to North Africa; you are being deported? Or can someone come here and apply for asylum? That's what I'm curious about.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u69	I've said it has to be within the treaties. This means that you are always entitled to an individual review. Just as is the case with the Turkey deal. People are not sent back in there; they first check whether someone is Kurdish for example and is at risk in Erdogan's Turkey. I think that's right. To this end, international treaties oblige us. By the way, the Danes have indicated their agreement. That is why I did not want to address the virtual question about the Danish Social Democrats, because Mr Kuzu is not one of them. What we agree on is far more important than some game of some kind, and how are we going to find a humane solution to the crisis that has already led to 34,000 deaths in the Mediterranean? That's what I'm working on, along with other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u70	I have been looking forward to the proposals, because Mr Asscher has announced prematurely that there will be a summit in Amsterdam on Monday with a number of Social Democrats. I looked at the package of measures: addressing the root causes of migration, investment programme for better reception in the region, rapid and clear return policy, and resettlement. I am still interested in the issue of protection in the region in safe third countries. It says: while preserving the right to individual examination of asylum applications in Europe. To get it sharp and also for clarity the following question. I expect this to be the case, but I would like confirmation: is it true that you mean that if there is a safe third country, for example Tunisia in North Africa, they will go to Tunisia, but that you will do the test? Or do you lean more towards GroenLinks and say: no, then we should also go completely "processes" and if someone is a refugee, take him in, despite the fact that there is safe shelter in the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u71	Thank you for this question. As far as I am concerned, there are two possibilities. The first is: back to a safe third country. That's what we see in the Turkey deal. Well, after an individual check to see if anyone's in danger. I think we agree on that, and that is what the treaties prescribe. The other is: asylum in the Netherlands. But that means you get a lower flexible ceiling. As a country, you're supposed to make your contribution. That brings back the manageability that we do not have now and which is needed to arrive at a humane solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u72	If we have organized a safe return, in line with the Refugee Convention and so on, and there is a safe return for everyone in the region, you say: will someone like that go back?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u73	It's about protection. We are obliged to do so on the basis of the Refugee Convention. It's true, you want to break the model of the smugglers but you want to offer security and perspective to people on the run.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u74	Then that's clear. It seems to me that that is what we have already done with all of us, including in the coalition agreement. Then that's not new. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u75	Mr President, was that a question or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u76	That was Mr Azmani's conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u77	Perhaps Mr Azmani wanted to ask what I miss. Where the VVD calls for a cut of more than 2 billion in development cooperation, I think you should not ignore tackling the root causes. With certainty the VVD just said "this is the only plan," but it's half. You will also have to do much more to remove the root causes of migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u78	That is a good point from Mr Asscher, but I did not know that when I walked to the interrupting microphone. So that's not why I'm here. There are many things in the ten-point plan in which GroenLinks, my group, can recognize itself. In my opinion, the discussion is in the reference that Mr Asscher makes a number of times: look at the Turkey deal. Turkey is currently catching 3.5 million refugees. That is a huge burden on Turkish society. Child labour was gone from Istanbul, but it's back all the way. There are whole streets where Syrian children are making clothes. My point is, and that is a point that I have also made in my own contribution, that you are going to send people back to a country that may be safe, but that is so fragile that you are playing with fire at that point. However, I would ask Mr Asscher to take that point from his ten-point plan seriously into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u79	I think that point and criticism is right. As much as my stomach turns to what I have seen happening in the United States, we must also be honest about what is happening on the edges of Europe. These are not all situations that you can be proud of as a Dutchman. Only, I think it is too limited to say 'you can't do that anymore', because I think it is necessary to make agreements with third countries. Only, I think we should take more responsibility for what happens then. I do not think that we should say 'it is wrong, we are not doing it anymore', I think that the Netherlands, the European Union, should have the ambition to improve the situation there with money, with agreements on circumstances and by offering prospects. I would also ask the Cabinet, in this case, the Secretary of State for Migration and the Minister for Development Cooperation, to inform us about this: how does the Cabinet envisage a European approach to improving this kind of thing? With Mr Van Ojik, I find it appalling that there is another issue of child labour. We can't accept that. Only, I come to a different conclusion than he did. He says "I won't repeat "it's not good." I think that an honest answer from us is asking us to invest in the region in Europe, because it is there. Even without the Turkey deal, those 3 million people were there. Even without the Turkey deal, millions of people were received in Lebanon. Like Mr Van Ojik, I feel a responsibility for this too. The European Union can do much more there. UNHCR has sounded the alarm clock. A deficit of 4 billion means that conditions there are going to deteriorate. For that, I also appeal to this cabinet. It's not just about control, it's about humanity to people who already live in horrible conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u80	Let me say again that the status quo as we know it now cannot continue. If only those problems in Turkey were not the result of the Turkey deal. Of course, a lot of Syrian refugees were on their way to Europe, with all the problems of that. I shall say once again that Mr Asscher may not do how terrible it was how many people drowned on their way there and how many people have fallen into the hands of smugglers. But we cannot look away from the fact that the problems in Turkey have been exacerbated by the fact that we have stopped allowing Syrian refugees into Europe. That was the Turkey deal. If we are going to do the same with the refugees who come centrally across the Mediterranean to Italy and we are going to send them back to countries in the North African region with which we have made a deal, then I fear the same negative side effects in countries that are already so vulnerable. Unfortunately, this is not solved with more development aid, with a marshal plan, with investment promotion. All this must be done, but Mr Asscher knows as well as I do that these are projects that need decades before they lead to prosperity and stability. So we will have to look for other solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u81	This is indeed a general consideration by Mr Van Ojik and not a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u82	I appreciate what Mr Van Ojik says. I think he is right to point out how difficult it is, but that does not relieve us of the duty to formulate all these solutions now. I tried to do that, along with other parties. I will not claim that these solutions are perfect. Absolutely not. They are the best solutions I can think of right now; they are. I have also heard no better solutions from Mr Van Ojik, who said that there should be control. That's what I want to give him back. I'm always open to other variants and better solutions. But if you say that we have to help people in need and that we have to take care of control I have heard the word "control" use GroenLinks too. I certainly don't have a perfect solution, but I don't have a better solution than I just formulated. This means that I hope that we can work together on this. We will continue to hammer on not just one thing and then stop looking. Look across that border and make sure that we care about the development there and the situation in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u83	I am trying to understand the plan of the Social Democrats in Europe, because, as it sounds now, it is a bit of a compromise between what the cabinet wants and what GroenLinks wants. The cabinet says you must be able to capture and select at the gate of Africa. GroenLinks says: yes, you must do so, but at the same time you must maintain the asylum procedure here. The Labour Party says both, with a flexible ceiling. That's how I understand the plan. Then there is the next question. Your previous foreman, Mr Samsom, closed the Turkey deal. So how does it work? If you have a deal, some of it has to go back, because you can organise selection and reception in Turkey. But you say that we are going to receive some of the people who come from Turkey. Then where do you make the selection between those people who come from Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u84	For the record: I am speaking on behalf of the Labour Party and not on behalf of the European Social Democrats. We have discussed this with five parties from countries. Those are countries that are very much involved and involved. In Italy it is very acute and Denmark, the Netherlands, Belgium and Austria have had a lot to do with it. Two. Fortunately, there is an individual review in Greece. People who are being prosecuted for, for example, their political beliefs or who are afraid of persecution will receive protection. You can't say that everyone always goes back to a safe third country. You're gonna have to make choices in that as the country that's doing the test. But if we do not want to let go of control, we need flexible ceilings. That is what I have just said in reply to Mr Buma's question. So what's the difference from the coalition agreement? I believe that the government agreement has not yet been decided on what a resettlement programme looks like. Mr Voordewind will agree with me that, if we really want to break the system, we will have to be prepared to include more people. In addition, I believe that the coalition agreement is still quite abstract about how we are going to remove the cause of migration. That is why I asked the Cabinet to indicate in a letter how it sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u85	The government has allocated extra money for this: the 1.7 billion available, among other things, to combat the root causes of migration and poverty. The question remains, then, what is the difference between the coalition agreement and the PvdA's plans? That's in the coalition agreement. The same applies to people from other continents who would arrive at Schiphol. For them, an asylum procedure remains in place. Then where is the difference between the terms of the coalition agreement and the plans of the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u86	It is good that this 1.7 billion is spent on development cooperation, but I think Mr Voordewind will agree with me that this is necessary in a structural way, and perhaps openly. I admit that it's always about choices that you have to make, but Africa's problems, including population growth, and inequality in the world, require more structural funding. Moreover, there is a need for more structural investment in the places in the region where people are now being taken care of. In the earlier discussion on the passage in the coalition agreement on which an attempt at formation was made, which has already been referred to a few times, I have already indicated that the PvdA is looking at this differently. That's not our objection. We call on the government to explain the coalition agreement in such a way that you arrive at an approach consisting of those four elements. So don't do one and don't do the other. I hope the Christian Union sees that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u87	Finalizing, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u88	Rounding up. Mr Asscher saw in Minister Kaag's note that structural amounts were reserved from 2022 onwards. So I see little difference between what is in the coalition agreement and the plans of the PvdA. The PvdA also says that you could send people back to safe countries under all kinds of conditions. They are explicitly mentioned in the coalition agreement. At the same time, however, you must check through the abridged asylum procedure to ensure that people can indeed return safely. I therefore conclude that there is little light between the coalition agreement and the plans of the PvdA. But if that is not the case, Mr Asscher must correct me.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u89	Thus challenged, I will put it a little more clearly. Firstly, the government agreement remains limited in its ambition of resettlement as an alternative to what is happening now. Of course you can't. You can't say you're gonna catch 750 people when the world's on fire. Mr Voordewind knows that too. Secondly, the coalition agreement says that there should not be a penny left in the European budget, while Mr Voordewind will agree with me that the European Union will have to invest. That cannot only happen with Minister Kaag's money. Thirdly, I support the government's view that you should make agreements with third countries, in accordance with the agreements that exist. However, this does not alter the fact that you must also ask for solidarity within Europe, which will have consequences for those countries that are not participating now. That is not in the coalition agreement, but it will have to be settled. I do not rule out that this is also the government's commitment. In fact, I should hope so. I thought I was extremely atonement-minded in my reply, but if Mr Voordewind says that there are no differences, then I would say that there are. I think we can do better. We have put forward proposals for this. I think that we may be able to count on the support of the Christian Union for these plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u90	I heard Mr Asscher say that the PvdA believes that migrants who do not need protection should return to their country of origin. Meanwhile, the PvdA in Amsterdam comes up with a motion to ensure that even the illegals of the squatters gang We Are Here can stay undisturbed here and even remain undisturbed in their squatters. What are Mr Asscher's words worth if, in practice, these are the actions of the PvdA? What are your words worth, if in practice these are the actions of the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u91	I understand that the new Amsterdam College, the relevant alderman, has come into contact with the Secretary of State and that they are going to agree on effective return. If you look closely at that, you know it's looking for a way to do it quickly and effectively. I'm very much in favour of that. Sometimes it's wise to catch people. We have also looked at this for quite a long time in the previous cabinet period. And sometimes that's not wise. First of all, I would like to wait and see what comes out of these talks between the administration of the capital and the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u92	Apart from those discussions, we have already seen what the PvdA is doing in practice, even with the squatters' harness of We Are Here. That's scum, I can't say otherwise. They've threatened and intimidated people. They've been on a squatter's tour of Amsterdam for years. If you even protect these people, how on earth can you say that processed asylum seekers should return to the countries of origin? Then, with all due respect, it's bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u93	I'm not protecting anyone, especially people who use or intimidate violence, whoever they are, whatever their status here is. That is unacceptable in our rule of law. This does not alter the fact that the return of displaced asylum seekers requires more than merely using terms of strength about the people involved. It requires an approach whereby we make agreements with the countries where people go back. That's what I'm calling the cabinet to. If countries don't take people back, you'll get the situation we have right now. That is a bad thing for the Netherlands, because it affects the basis of support for people who need protection, so something has to be done about it. That is why I have said that, as far as I am concerned, the cabinet can make firm agreements on return with those countries, also to counter this. That's the solution. But do not accuse me of defending anyone who uses or intimidates violence, for I would never approve of it, under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u94	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen, on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u95	Mr. Chairman. The letter we received this morning from the cabinet does not provide much insight into exactly what is going on at this weekend's meeting of the Heads of Government. That is why I will begin with a number of questions to the Prime Minister. What exactly is the status of the meeting, next weekend, who is present and why is the Prime Minister one of those present? What is the role and involvement of the Dutch government? There is an initiative by President-in-Office Tusk on a solution in which Europe is in fact completely closed to refugees. Anyone who is picked up on the way, especially on the Mediterranean, will end up in a reception location outside the EU. It examines the eligibility of the refugee for an asylum procedure within the EU. Is that indeed Mr Tusk's plan? Is that on the table this weekend, too? Or maybe something else? Can the Prime Minister confirm that talks are already taking place with Albania, Egypt and Tunisia? Secretary of State Harbers stated earlier this week that the cabinet does not yet have a position on such a plan. That is, of course, the case now. So we'd like to hear from the Prime Minister what approach he's traveling to Brussels this weekend. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, any plan must be clear, as I said earlier, that migrants who want to come to the European Union for economic reasons are not eligible for asylum. The question is whether the Prime Minister wants to use that. Why is the letter we received this morning not much more powerful that Frontex needs to be strengthened in order to secure the external borders better? The letter states: "Where necessary, with the support of Frontex." That is a very modest point of view. I have a specific question about the remark made by the Prime Minister of Italy about Dutch flag ships, which are Dutch territories, that they should send the refugees on those boats to the Netherlands. Finally, a question about the agreements made between Macron and Merkel on Tuesday. Is it true that Germany has opted for a French plan on the separate budget, in exchange for French support for Germany's migration problem? In particular, I am asking this question because our Finance Minister said on Sunday in Frankfurter Allgemeine that he is opposed to this separate budget, even if there was a Franco-German compromise. I say "would come" because it was Sunday then. He said: 'Even if there is a Franco-German compromise, all countries, including the Netherlands, need permission, and we are against it'. I would like to hear a clear answer from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u96	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is an extra European summit on migration on Sunday. It talks about the possibility of receiving refugees from centres outside the EU. A rapid asylum procedure should then be established to distinguish between economic and political refugees. Can the government elaborate on this plan and the Dutch position? Is it intended to send refugees to these camps on their way to Europe? Will they then be redistributed to Europe? How many people are we talking about? What happens to migrants who do not receive asylum? What budget is involved? And not insignificant: which countries are prepared to provide this shelter? We hear coming by: Albania, Egypt, Tunisia. It raises a lot of questions. To what extent are there talks with these countries? What sausage will they be told to accept? Has Albania's EU membership been discussed? Does Tunisia, like Turkey, receive EUR 6 billion? We're reading reports that no North African country is willing to make a deal. Should there be a "Tunisia deal," for example, what demands does the government make? Should Tunisia comply with international standards, such as the refoulement ban? Should there be a careful asylum procedure? How does the plan relate to the government agreement that such agreements should be in line with the Refugee Convention? Is the Prime Minister prepared to investigate this before such a deal is reached? Merkel and Macron are even talking about Libya as a shelter. That's a long way to go. That's a country in chaos, a country with three governments. Is Merkel that desperate? Does the government share the view that Libya is very unsafe and that you cannot send refugees there? The pressure to close a European migration deal is enormous. As a result, other files are accelerating. Macron is willing to help Merkel because she is under attack in her own country. Of course, he wants something in return: his own budget for the euro area countries, partly paid through European taxes. That goes a long way! Does the government share the view that a red line is being crossed here? Do you agree that this kind of trade-off, this kind of hand-off on totally different subjects, is not the intention? The Foreign Minister agreed with me just now, in the debate on the General Affairs Council. France and Germany also want to take major steps in the defence field. There is even a European Security Council that can make decisions when it comes to military missions. It shouldn't get weirder. We know that the Prime Minister has wiped out his agenda to save Merkel, but that does not mean that he has to agree to more federalisation, with new steps towards a European superstate. In short, how will the Prime Minister oppose a possible deal between Merkel and Macron? Mr. Chairman. We may be on the eve of some big decisions. I have one important condition. Respect national democracy. Do not take irreversible decisions until we have been able to discuss them in detail. Otherwise, you will once again lose the already fragile support for European cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u98	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues have already referred to it: tensions are rising in Europe; especially in Germany, but Italy refused the Aquarius and has also refused a boat with 224 passengers on board the Dutch flag. The Eastern European countries are still refusing to take in refugees. In fact, Hungary has criminalised those who want to assist refugees. So it is right that next Sunday there will be an inaugurated summit. That day would not be our preferred day, but it is a good thing that attention is paid to this. Today's letter from the Secretary of State explains government policy. The Christian Union is broadly in favour of this. It is also in line with the coalition agreement, but it also raises questions about the plans. That is why I come to the following questions, in particular on the regional landing platforms, which should be designed in cooperation with UNHCR and the IOM. The questions are as follows: Is the government's commitment now and will continue to focus on creating external processing centres, i.e. EU selection centres on the edges of Africa, including the asylum procedure, as requested by the government agreement and to which today's letter refers? That is a different model from UNHCR's registration system and UNHCR's quotas. So does the cabinet continue to focus on these asylum procedures on the edges of Africa? And if the cabinet elects these external selection centres, how does the cabinet guarantee, as the Cabinet letter states, that asylum procedures such as those in Tunisia and Algeria will run? Then safe third countries. Does the cabinet currently find countries such as Tunisia, Algeria and Morocco safe third countries for reception and selection? Are these countries currently complying with the Refugee Convention? Does the government agree with the Christian Union that countries in Europe should not be eligible for this, such as Albania and Kosovo, which are mentioned by Denmark and Austria? I do not know to what extent these plans are still real, but if we went along with them, it would not break the model of the people smugglers. That would not prevent the drowning in the Mediterranean, which colleagues have spoken about. So please make a clear statement from the cabinet that Albania cannot be a solution for inviting refugees to go this way with boats. If this is chosen, will the cabinet, in line with the government agreement, be prepared to argue in favour of increasing the number of refugees eligible for resettlement to Europe? It is both: reception there, i.e. selection at the edges of Africa, but combined with an increase in the number of refugees eligible for resettlement to Europe. If this happens, does the government think it is right that funds from the Structural Funds should finance reception in the European Union? In the event of a refusal by Eastern European countries, they will eventually contribute to this important reception, because there will be less money left for them in the Structural Funds. Is this the cabinet line, too? Mr. Chairman. In short, the urgency is great to act, but the Christian Union calls on the cabinet not only to look at effectiveness, but to do it humanely. So as well as countering irregular migration and offering prospects for the real refugees. I wish the Prime Minister wisdom to maintain that balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u100	Mr Voordewind says it must be done humanely. This is also stated in the Government's letter: the Refugee Convention must be complied with. Fantastic! But that's paper. Look at the Turkey deal: not everything goes great there either. So how hard is the Christian Union's condition that if there is such a deal with a North African country, which is truly humane? Shouldn't you be looking into that in advance, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u101	Not only does the Christian Union think so, but also the government. That is in the coalition agreement, but it is also in the letter we received from the cabinet this morning: if there is a reception in the region and a selection is being made, it will have to comply with international conventions, including the Refugee Convention. Is that paper willing? No. The government agreement also refers to the need for UNHCR and IOM to be involved to see whether this is actually the case. So we also need to monitor and make sure it's true. That is why my question to the cabinet: does the cabinet currently consider a country like Tunisia to be a safe third country to start that shelter? Until then, we discussed this with the Secretary of State in the framework of the JHA Council last week, the Secretary of State said that there are no talks with Tunisia, Morocco or Algeria. At the moment, new plans are being put forward by the European Commission to perhaps engage in these talks. So I am very curious about the answer given by the cabinet, whether it thinks these countries should be eligible and, if not, what should happen then, for example, I would like to remind you of the phrase in the cabinet's letter to guarantee that proper asylum procedure in those countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u102	Thank you for that answer. I have another question about preventing migrants from taking boats towards Europe. I think we all want to avoid that and it is extremely painful what we are seeing on television. Is this plan gonna work? Mr Voordewind always gives a great deal of attention, but also says that a short procedure must be kept. So if they arrive in Italy, Mr Voordewind thinks they should be tested there. That is also happening in Greece, but the islands there are now quite full of refugees; things are not going very well there. How is Mr Voordewind going to stop these boats in this plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u103	If a migration deal is already being concluded, then the asylum procedure must be guaranteed there. So before we can do that, and before we abandon the boats that may be coming from Libya to Algeria, Morocco or Tunisia, there will be a lot of work to be done. If they do arrive in Europe, at the border in Greece, then there will indeed have to be this shortened procedure to see if it is indeed safe for these people to go to Tunisia or Algeria. So that procedure is still in place. The entire asylum procedure will also be maintained for people coming from other continents. So the check stays. The terms are clear. It is now up to the cabinet and later to the Council to see whether, under these conditions, effective reception in these three possible countries can be seriously considered, but we must wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u104	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haersma Buma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u105	Madam President. The issue of migration is the great pain of Europe. It squeaks and it cracks. The Dublin agreements to return asylum seekers who have previously applied for asylum in another country seem to be in the past. The return of rejected asylum seekers in the Netherlands has also become increasingly unworkable, as the Court of Auditors recently pointed out. Unfortunately, the cynical model of the human smugglers works. In most cases, the economic migrant enters Europe but rarely returns. After the 2015 asylum crisis, good intentions followed, but then it remained silent. Most of the proposals were fired. Member States of the EU largely went their own way. I think it is important to add: it is not the EU that is failing here, but it is Member States that do not want to do so. If 2015 repeats, there is nothing to prevent a new crisis. The question is not whether but when such a moment will occur again. For the coming decades, there will be explosive population growth in Africa, the threat of terrorism, climate change and also the total lack of prospects in that continent, which will result in increasing migratory pressure in the long term. That is why Europe must act now. This is an historic necessity, but it may also be an historic opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u106	I hear Mr Buma saying: it is not the EU that fails, it is countries that do not want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u107	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u108	Can you explain that statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u109	That doesn't seem so hard to me. Several proposals have been made from Brussels, for example on the redistribution of refugees together with stricter surveillance of the southern border, but there are always Member States, particularly South and Eastern European countries, which claim not to participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u110	The Member States do not want to transfer that power to the EU. That's the point, that's what you mean. That's what they don't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u111	Well, more than that. They don't want to. This is a typical example in which you can see that without European cooperation nothing will happen. The example of Italy has just been mentioned. Italy simply says: we do not want this boat, send it to the next country, the next country, the next country. Unfortunately, the southern border for a refugee entering is not the southern border of a particular country, but of Europe. People want to go to Europe. And so Europe has that task. If individual countries don't cooperate, I just mentioned Hungary and other countries. We have nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u112	So what you get is that these countries themselves are going to shape their own immigration policy. That is what is happening in Hungary and Austria, and this is perhaps happening in Germany. So you may have something, but you get something else. You will then have national immigration policy again. If Spain had also stopped that boat and Portugal and France too, that boat would have either sunk or gone back at some point, but at least those people would not have landed in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u113	It might be good to remind us of what you're saying. You say that the boat might have sunk, but at least they wouldn't have come ashore. If that's your preference, we're talking about different realities. After all, saving drownings at sea is a basic task that has been in all international codes since Hugo de Groot. Whether you like it or not, this is our continent, this is where the people come and we will have to do it together. That is the task of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u114	Finally, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u115	Back up, because now we're going to talk about Hugo de Groot and there's a lot of interesting things to say about that, but the result of what you call "the failure of countries"......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So is that what you call "failure"?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u116	Yes, and I'll tell you why. The interesting thing about the Hungarian example is that Hungary says: we want to implement our own immigration policy, but we do want to be a Schengen member. And Schengen has a common immigration policy, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u117	No, Schengen is not about a common immigration policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u118	No, Mr Baudet, Mr Buma spoke. Mr. Buma, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u119	Schengen is about lifting borders. The refugees are travelling across Europe through open borders. Schengen begins with Hungary. Hungary demands that Schengen, and wants a limitless Europe. That is one of the achievements of that Europe. And you say one thing: Hungary has its own immigration policy. Hungary has a fence on the south side because there is the Schengen border. But that is also what Hungary has with the support of Europe. Thanks to European money, Hungary will be able to protect that fence itself, even for you. So the story wrings. Hungary says it wants to stop the refugees, but it also says it wants Schengen. In fact, Hungary really wants a lot of Europe. We also want our own workers to be able to travel throughout Europe. This has everything to do with migration policy. So your story just doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u120	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u121	Maybe we should wait another five minutes, but I'd say it's not that complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u122	My story? I'm gonna ask you a few questions aimed at clarifying your story. Then how can my story not be true? I haven't argued anything yet. That's one. I didn't argue. I have asked questions, aimed at your speech, to clarify, to understand what you are trying to say. I haven't argued anything myself yet, so my story can't be right or wrong. I haven't argued anything yet. I couldn't have said anything that wasn't right, because I haven't argued anything at all yet. You say: Hungary is failing. Then you say: what Hungary is doing is in line with the EU agreements. I don't get it anymore! What you are now seeing happening in South-East Europe is that these countries think: we can wait for that EU to happen, we are now going to guard our borders ourselves. You don't explain what's wrong with that. All you're saying is that we have to do it Europeanly. Why? I do not hear an argument, but I hear a vague story that we have lightened certain customs agreements through Schengen and that Hungary wants that too. That's not the whole point. Hungary now protects its own borders. Austria wants to start introducing its own border controls again. It's possible. That's an alternative. Then you won't have European interference, then you'll do it national again. It's possible. That's a political choice. You do not want that, because you want European unification. Just say that and don't hide behind some kind of necessary logic!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u123	I like to hide behind a necessary logic, because that's what I'm trying to say. What I am saying about Hungary is the following. A fence is placed on the southern border. I've said that before: it's not pretty, but I get it. In fact, with European money, I say it again, Bulgaria can protect its own border, including for you. In short, European border surveillance is a European interest. What Hungary then says is: but we actually want a lot of Europe. And you don't want that. Hungary wants to be in the middle of Europe by being a Schengen member. That's what Bulgaria wants. So where you are actually arguing that it is much better if the individual countries do it themselves, I say that they are partly very happy, but in part they are very happy that Europe is here. And perhaps that is an attitude that could also be a kind of necessary logic for you to endorse.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u124	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u125	Thank you. Then I'll come to the extra summit next Sunday. In the meantime, there is a piece of............................................................................................................................................................................................ If that's the future, then that's a change of heart. The CDA and other parties in this house have been calling for asylum applications in Africa, in the region. My question to the Prime Minister is: is this also on the agenda on Sunday, is this being discussed and, if so, how can this be helped? Indeed, it is the future and at the same time we all know how incredibly complicated it is. That might take a long time, but it's the way. So my question is how that could go. What you can then achieve and whatever comes first for the CDA is that real refugees will then receive good reception and that it will become clear much faster that economic refugees do not have to make the crossing because they are going back. As far as the CDA is concerned, it is therefore also appropriate to establish a relationship with European OS budget, but also with trade agreements. Because these agreements not only work by being friendly, it is not only the root but also the stick. Europe is not just a asking party, because these countries also have an interest in good trade relations, in support, in financial support and in helping to regulate asylum flows. In short, this is a good policy for the CDA if, in the long term, I know that it is not possible for it to take place tomorrow, not only in the case of the procedure, but also preferably in the case of reception. It should be close by, in the region. Mr. Chairman. I see someone's at the interrupting microphone, but should I finish first?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u126	I'd be fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u127	Okay, that's just a few more paragraphs. I have to ask the Prime Minister what he expects from this summit and what his commitment can be to allow it to go in the right direction. If the summit does not immediately result, and that seems to me almost logical in Europe, then what can happen to make it really a start? Also non-beaten is not immediate failure in this case. Then there's a topicality, so something that's going on right now. I have the same question to ask the Secretary of State. Mr Voordewind has also indicated that Italy is currently sending a ship from a German humanitarian organisation flying the Dutch flag back to the sea with the remark: go to the Netherlands. I ask the Secretary of State to make it clear here today that the Netherlands will not participate in this cynical game, that the Netherlands will not say 'let them sail at sea for two weeks and go to the Netherlands', but that the Netherlands points out the duty of Italy, of the ports nearby, to help people in need. If the Netherlands takes over that task, we have a new model, and that is a model in which people spend weeks in shady boats at sea. Finally, this includes the question about the Dutch flag. There are quite a few ships flying the Dutch flag for purely administrative reasons. The same applies to this ship, because it is a German organization. Does the Secretary of State see that problem and is he able to do something about it? Mr. Chairman. Those were my points.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u128	I listened with great interest to Mr Buma's speech. He actually says that the question of applying for asylum in the region is complicated and a long way, but it is the way. That is the essence of his speech. He said "in Africa"; let's just sum it up, regardless of which countries exactly that becomes. Do I understand that he also said: if countries do not want to cooperate, then we have instruments, trade and investment, behind hand to...? Maybe not to force them, but to make them very difficult. If countries don't cooperate, will they lose their trade advantages or something? I wonder how to interpret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u129	Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u130	It's possible. So a country like Tunisia will soon have to take back the people who come to the Netherlands or Europe to seek protection. These people will then be sent back to Tunisia to apply for asylum. If Tunisia does not cooperate, Tunisia will lose its trade advantages with the European Union. Is that the line we have to follow, with all the complications of that? If so, then we know where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u131	That's not the last of it. It's preventing people from leaving Africa. It is the boats at sea which are not in Europe and which, for whatever reason, go out to sea thanks to smugglers who make money from it. I said that just now in an interruption with you, and that is what we are saying: they must go back. If a country doesn't take back the people who go to sea, then... Many requests are from Tunisians and I think that we can demand that that country should take them back. So if you mean we're going to send all the refugees to Tunisia now and we're going to cut that country short if it doesn't, I'm saying no. But in relation to the responsibility you have, I think that Europe as a collective can make more of a fist.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u132	I think that is an important distinction, because Mr Buma does not say: Tunisia must... I thought, for example, that we would have a deal with Tunisia which would require Tunisia to set up an asylum procedure for Senegalese. But now Mr Buma says: no, Tunisians. I couldn't agree more. In fact, it has to be. The international treaties already oblige Tunisia to take back Tunisians who have been put to trial here. So we agree on that. But I thought that it actually went much further and that other nationalities in Tunisia should also apply for asylum. If they don't cooperate, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u133	The difference is in the means you use and the goal you want to achieve. If you talk to Africa and say "we have a collective problem; help with collective solutions," then you're talking about other things than the specific point I'm referring to right now. A lot of refugees who come here are Tunisians and they are not taken back. And it just happens, and it just happens. I think you'll be able to use this medicine. Otherwise, it's a negotiation.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u134	I believe that a distinction should be made here between Tunisian return policy and the new plan for European notification centres in North Africa. That's what I wanted to ask...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u135	Not quite. I'm just saying before you draw that conclusion, but we'll get to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u136	If they are already there, is it also a tough condition for the CDA that they naturally comply with human rights standards and b that substantial investment is also being made in reception in the region? I say that because I hear that story a little too little, especially on the right. The numbers are pretty bad, aren't they? The UNHCR says that we are billions short to make the reception in the region decent. Is that also a condition of this plan for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u137	These are a few questions in one, Mr. Chairman. That in itself is useful to do as a questioner, but as an answerer I have to peel it off as well. The first point you made, Mr. Van Dijk. What you said is not what I meant by the carrot and the stick. Of course, you have people who have gone through the entire asylum procedure in the Netherlands, turned out to be Tunisian and have to go back, but you also have... I think you can also use sanctions when the boats go out to sea. You have to stop it and send it back to the nearest port. If that port refuses, I don't think it can either. Then you haven't gone through the whole procedure, but I don't think that country can just say... The Netherlands would not do that either. If a ship sails away from us and the English Coast Guard says "these are Dutch and they come from your port" then we simply record them, because that is our obligation. What I do not want to answer with the stick is a collective organisation with which we move European applications, but that aside. Then the second. Yes, it must of course comply with all humanitarian standards. That's one. Two is that we have to invest there. Mr Voordewind said that I think we are doing the same. I'll tell you something else right away. We know that far from all migration has to do with the amount of money we send to Africa. That's got something to do with hunger. Part of that is support. It has to do with climate change, terrorism and unstable regimes. We have known since Afghanistan and Iraq that we cannot change unstable regimes from here. My point is that, of course, we must ensure that we support those countries. My question to you would be whether you are willing to shift our OS funds from countries far away to countries close to them. If we do that, we'll have more money available, but we haven't solved the problem yet. In short, I will go with you in part, but I do not believe that if we increase our OS budget by half a billion, we will get fewer refugees. I think we can build good shelters with that kind of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u138	Mr. Van Dijk, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u139	At that point, I would say: let's see what comes on paper if something comes on paper. Then we are going to study this very carefully together, including the investments, the financial resources. But let me now turn to the possible candidate countries. Merkel and Macron would also look at Libya as a country where such a centre can be placed. I think that's a clearly unsafe country. Is it conceivable for the CDA to place such a centre in Libya, or are you going too far?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u140	I think I do look at this differently than you do. I believe that we should also be prepared to look at safe areas in those countries. I said that during the major crisis in 2015. Not all Libya is at war everywhere. That goes for the whole north border. I think this is what we are doing with our paper reality. When we see that there is a great deal of unrest in Libya, we immediately go along with the story that no one can go there. The crazy thing is, these people often fled there first. First they went from South and Central Africa to Libya in the hope of meeting a human smuggler there to take them to Europe. That's why I don't go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u141	Thank you. Then I give now... Oh, Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u142	I have heard very well the introduction of all four parties to the government. Unfortunately, then, the only conclusion is that there are not fewer opportunities to come to Europe as a migrant, but more. This is really going the wrong way. Does Mr Buma recognize that? Mr Buma talks about centres in North Africa where the asylum procedure should take place. Then the promising refugees can be brought to Europe. I heard, for example, Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union Government Party say that the asylum procedure also continues in the Netherlands. That's great. So we have the asylum procedure in the Netherlands as it is today and it is not working properly, and on top of that the springboards in North Africa from where migrants also come to Europe and the Netherlands. I've heard all the government parties, but you're only making things worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u143	The point is that now, as we speak, all these boats with people are crossing the sea to apply for asylum in Europe. Europe is not for that. We want people to have security, preferably in the region. That's what we're offering. As I said just now: that will be future music, but in my view the shelter will also have to take place there at some point, the more, the better. Then you have also done the asylum procedure not in Europe, as you fear, but in that area. As far as I'm concerned, that's where the difference lies. Indeed, asylum can be applied for in the Netherlands. That will remain the right thing, but we will see that the large flows we saw in 2015 and then every summer again, the earning model of the smugglers.............................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u144	This story really rattles on all sides. That wage model of smugglers will always exist as long as welfare states like the Netherlands keep an asylum procedure open. Migrants would rather go to the Netherlands than to Albania, I can tell you. So what you are taking care of now is that there will be more opportunities to end up in Europe or in the Netherlands. Once again, we get springboards in North Africa from which migrants can be brought to Europe, and we keep the asylum procedure open in Europe and in the Netherlands. We have also heard Mr Voordewind of the government party confirm this to the Christian Union. And if those boats stop sailing, then those smugglers will go back on the Evros route to Europe. So what you are doing now is making the problems worse by creating more opportunities to come to Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u145	You mentioned Mr Voordewind a few times, so he now feels personally addressed. Mr. Voordewind, you may correct something.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u146	Perhaps I should make it clear that the asylum procedure is being shortened for the people who come from Africa. If they don't end up at risk, they just go back to Africa when there's a migration deal. The regular asylum procedure will only be maintained for people outside Africa, where we have not made a deal with a continent. I mentioned the example of Doltov.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u147	I think what Mr Voordewind says is important. The only thing is that not all of this will be on the agenda of that summit tomorrow, but this is, of course, the perspective. Previous debates were also about the agreements with those countries to actually do both the application procedure and the reception there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u148	Thank you. Oh. I see that Mr Fritsma wishes to put his final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u149	Go ahead, Mr. Chairman. I was already on my way to my place, but I'd like to go back to the chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u150	Mr. Fritsma, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u151	I have one more question, Mr President. For the addition of Mr Voordewind is also completely ignorant of the practice. You must know the practice. Even in the Netherlands, economic refugees cannot be distinguished from real refugees, because everyone comes in without documents. Anyone who comes from Morocco can say: I am from Syria. So you want to move that problem to North Africa now: be my guest, but it's not gonna work. The problem remains that in the Netherlands you keep that asylum procedure open, so everyone can still say: I am a Syrian, I just don't have any documents with me. If you keep the procedure open like that, you won't solve anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u152	Then I'm going to repeat what Mr Voordewind said again: unless you have an appointment with a country that does that procedure for you. Then it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u153	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u154	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I would like to put two basic principles at the centre, namely hope and understanding. 70 million people are on the run, deprived of home and fireplace. They are people with needs, with desires and with fears. And they are above all people with hope and right to a safe existence. So let's look at the root causes. Climate problems are often the root cause of migration. Since the 2015 study of Columbia University, we know that water scarcity was one of the main causes of the Syrian war. And in the run-up to the beginning of it hundreds of thousands of people went to the great Syrian cities. That led to instability, followed by conflict. The then Commander of the Armed Forces, General Middendorp, confirms that analysis. He added: climate change is the creeping disaster that is already contributing to world unrest and violence. Climate change is a threat to the whole world. And Sigrid Kaag also recognises that climate change and migration are closely linked. In the meantime, this position has also been included in its policy paper Investing in perspective. The United Nations is expecting tens of millions of climate refugees by 2020. The government needs to map the effects of climate change, of our trade and of our tax policies on refugee flows. An integrated approach to preventing and curbing refugee flows is essential. That is also the thrust of the vote adopted in 2015. I shall perhaps come back to that in the second term. Mr. Chairman. The European summit next Sunday will focus on finding short-term solutions, on emergency mechanisms to deal with the problems in Italy and Germany in particular. As we understand people coming here, we also understand people in Italy, Greece and Malta who are dealing daily with large groups of refugees who are not or under bad conditions. If it is true that European cooperation is built on solidarity and the need for security, European countries should also show solidarity with the countries of southern Europe. Our government and the European Commission regularly complain that countries such as Italy and Greece do not have enough budgetary discipline and that they do not comply with European agreements. At a time when Italy and Greece are confronted with problems which are only due to their geographical location, the rest of Europe shows little solidarity. I'd like a response. The pressure involved in the taking up of refugees is not or hardly distributed among the other countries. This must change in the interests of the refugees, the inhabitants of the Member States and the credibility of this European cooperation. Mr. Chairman. Once our ancestors traveled with small boats to America, Brazil, Ceylon, India and Indonesia in search of prosperity and prosperity. This was referred to by former Prime Minister Balkenende as "that VOC mentality." But now that the boats are coming in the opposite direction, we can't turn our heads off and close our eyes. Understanding and hope, Mr. Chairman. Understanding for refugees who want a better life and understanding for South Europeans who are faced with aid questions for which they are not equipped. In the short term, we will have to provide adequate reception and prospects for a future, preferably in the region of origin, because we believe that every human being deserves a future and no one should be forced to become a refugee. For this reason, and that concludes, we should not confine ourselves to the fight against symptomism, but we should remove the breeding ground for refugee flows. As long as we exclude air traffic and agriculture, the main drivers of climate change problems, from climate action, measures to reduce refugees are not very credible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u155	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Fritsma of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The EU's immigration and asylum policy is a mess. That's proven every day. Migrants are being taken over from smugglers on the Mediterranean and brought to Europe. Through the open borders they can then travel anywhere undisturbed. That is why we are still in the Netherlands with an asylum influx of more than 32,000 people per year. In the meantime, the EU has never been able to move in the same direction. For example, efforts have been made to achieve a compulsory redistribution of asylum seekers within the EU. However, countries such as Hungary were right to stop doing so. Where Italy refuses to allow a migrant boat to dock in one of the Italian ports, Spain will allow it a little later. Italy is threatening to boycott the summit next Sunday. Once again, there is a great deal to be desired. Different interests, different ideas and different views are present at each point. They can't be aligned. It is also a great mistake to assume that a welfare state like the Netherlands needs exactly the same asylum and immigration policy as a half-developing country like Romania. Everyone understands that's not possible. Mr. Chairman. Even if we manage to make agreements, they will be ineffective. Because the EU really is not looking to stop or substantially reduce mass immigration. In the new plans, for example in the Tusk mentioned above, it is only the intention to make illegal migration legal. The PVV therefore has only one appeal to the Prime Minister: do not make the Netherlands dependent on that EU mess! Make sure that we are back in charge of our own country, our own foreign policy and our own borders and then close those borders for all asylum seekers. That is the only clarity we can really go on with. That's what the Prime Minister has to put out on Sunday. Finally, choose our own country, our own interests and our own people. I can leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u157	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u158	Mr. Chairman. Last week, in the Committee on Justice and Security, we discussed the integrated migration agenda of this cabinet. As DENK, we indicated that we can find ourselves in parts of that integrated migration agenda, especially when it comes to combating the root causes of migration. These root causes are very important when, as a Western world, we disrupt the Middle East or rob Africa through multinationals. Then you know people are gonna come this way. It's important that we have an eye for that. Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the informal European summit on migration, which some of us call the Aquarius Summit. This wandering ship with many refugees on board has loosened a lot, because it was not allowed to dock on the Italian coast. Then there is the sudden government crisis in Germany. In the ever-stable country, the Christian Democrats of the CDU of Merkel are suddenly opposed to the Christian Democrats of the CSU of Mr Seehofer. The operation "Help Angela through the summer" has begun. DENK would in itself welcome the fact that the most progressive coalition government Germany has ever had could continue. With the large social investment agenda and the introduction of the minimum wage, the Merkel IV cabinet is somewhat comparable to the Den Uyl cabinet in the Netherlands, to which many people still have warm memories. At that time, the PvdA was still a social democratic party. The voters then rewarded Den Uyl with no less than 43 seats. That's a lot more than it is now. But today's PvdA has a very different tone. Mr Asscher appeared this week in Nieuwsuur and announced that he would seek membership with the Social Democrats in Denmark. The latter are tempted by the People's Party, the equivalent of the PVV in the Netherlands, to a dangerous right-wing course. A central part of this right-wing course is that refugees should no longer be received in Europe but in Africa and other regions where they come from. Even if they reach the European coasts, refugees should be returned to camps in Africa, where they should wait for their asylum applications. Not only the PvdA flirts with this, but also the European President Donald Tusk, for example. He is a member of the Polish Party Civil Platform, Platforma Obywatelska, more or less an equivalent of D66. That also explains why Mr Pechtold was so positive about Tusk's plans. Mr. Chairman. We have seen a plan of Mr Azmani with similar ideas before, in 2015. Back then, the PvdA was very opposed to this. It is a pity that this party, led by Mr Asscher, is moving further and further to the right, just like its party mates in Denmark. It is a ruinous road for social democracy. The PvdA should take an example of their Spanish comrades who, under the leadership of the new Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez, show solidarity and mercy and have received the refugees of the Aquarius. Mr. Chairman. For example, DENK prefers the European Union: a union of peace, freedom, solidarity and fraternity. All Men became Brüder, so is the European national anthem. Not the union of xenophobia and division, which is now emerging on the south-east side of the Union. There is an antisocial half ring of countries that no longer want to take in refugees. Italy, Malta, Hungary, the Czech Republic and the other Visegrad countries show a serious lack of international solidarity. But not the burden of the European Union. Of course, that's insufferable. Perhaps they should be restricted, including the European Structural Funds, even for those countries which do not fulfil their obligations. If you drive through Poland, you will see signs along all highways marked with "co-made possible by the European Union." The same can be seen in the Czech Republic and Hungary. It can't be that you take the pleasures, but not the burdens. I'm asking the Prime Minister to reflect on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u159	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u160	Madam President. A number of European summits on migration and the future of the euro area will take place in the coming week. It has not received the attention in the press that it really deserves, but we are on the eve of the most radical decisions of the last ten or twenty years. We are on the verge of another serious loss of sovereignty. Merkel and Macron now want to make the leap forward. They now want to lubricate the place and shape their dreamed European superstate, first of all with regard to asylum and immigration. They want to set up EU centres in Africa and in the Middle East to complete asylum procedures. It sounds nice and easy, but it means it's important to realize that we can't decide who really refugees and who isn't anymore via our own IND, which we can control ourselves. It means that we no longer have the procedures in our own hands. It means that Juncker will ultimately decide who is entitled to asylum and who is not, who is not sent back and who is not and who is going to be placed in the Netherlands and who is not. If this is indeed going to happen, we will turn our asylum and immigration policy over to the majority of European countries and to European officials. How many people in the Netherlands would actually feel comfortable with that, if we thought about it for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u161	I just saw Mr Baudet interrupting Mr Buma. He said, "If everyone refuses a boat like that, those people will drown and the problem will be solved." I think that...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u162	I didn't say that. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u163	Oh, thank God. I would like to give Mr Baudet the opportunity to make it clear now that these people simply need to be saved.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u164	I didn't make a statement about what should or shouldn't be. Mr Buma said that if they do not come into one country, they will come into another. I said this isn't a logical conclusion. If one country says no and the other says no, then they won't come in either. That is a very important observation. It is constantly said here that there is in fact a kind of race to the bottom and that these boats with migrants and so on will eventually get in somewhere, because there is always a country that allows boats. But of course that has not been said at all. That is a very important point, I think. It is very important to realise that if all European countries themselves were to guard their own borders, you would have very effective border control.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u165	Yes, that is indeed a very important observation. A race to the bottom is in this case the bottom of the sea. It's very effective when you say people have to drown. You just said I didn't say that should happen. But I ask you: what then should happen; should these people be saved or should they go to the bottom of the sea?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u166	I have had this discussion many times, including during the period when I...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u167	I'm not asking if you've had the discussion. I'm asking you what you think.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u168	Mr. Asscher! Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u169	I have had this discussion many times, including during the period when I went to Sicily with a number of people to look at shelters there and so on. I think it's best if those boats don't leave at all. What you should have is a fleet blockade off the coast of Libya and off other coasts, preventing those boats from leaving. You can track them at a very early stage. It's not difficult, I've talked to a lot of people from the Dutch Navy and with other people to set up an effective system of a series of boats, which can supply all kinds of countries, with helicopters. You can use it to stop those boats and send them back. That's the best you can do. Something else has to come up, namely that you in advance all that escape route, making that whole itinerary ineffective because you say: you just don't come in; even if you come here, you don't come in; if necessary we will load you on another boat and we will sail you back, but you won't come ashore here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u170	I find it rather disgusting that I am asking a very simple question, and I do not start with that question, but it comes from interruptions that Mr Baudet himself did, namely if you refuse them, they drown...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u171	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u172	Yes, if they don't land, they'll drown, that's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u173	I really didn't use the word "drown."
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u174	You used it, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u175	Well, no. Why don't we look it up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u176	Everything is in the Acts. Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u177	Yeah, they're looking it up in the meantime. My memory's pretty good.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u178	You just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u179	I didn't say it. I suggest that we take a break from the sitting, to put that right, if that's a big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u180	Excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u181	No, you may finish your story and in the Acts all your words are literally recorded, so in the suspension we can still do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u182	Okay, let's focus. Mr Baudet says: it is better if those boats do not leave. Everyone here agrees on that, from GroenLinks to Forum.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u183	Then let's take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u184	Only, that's not the situation. Another boat has been refused by Italy. In any case, in your interruption, you suggest to me that it would be better for you to refuse that boat by everyone, and as a result people might drown. It seems so elegant to me to give you the opportunity to make that right. Instead, you say there should be a blockade. For the last time, I ask you: do you not agree that it is better for those people to be saved than for them to drown? That's not a difficult question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u185	It's always better if people are saved than when they die.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u186	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u187	Proceed, Mr. Baudet. Since things have also been said to Mr Buma, you may give a short response, but not repeat the debate, because you are through the number of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u188	What I find interesting about Mr Baudet, when I think about my question, which must be short, is that in the end, bottomline, he finds the same thing as everyone else: we must prevent those boats from going out into the sea. You mentioned a blockade. Yes, we must try to have as much as possible strict protection from that sea. The question is, who's gonna do that? I'm only allowed to ask one question, but I'd like to make the conclusion. All these independent countries are not going to do that, because everyone has their own interests. And then it's handy that we have a construction together, of a number of countries I won't mention the name of the band that meets regularly, like next Sunday, that your plan might still be implemented thanks to that organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u189	That's a classic mistake of thinking. It is absolutely not the case that the European Union can regulate something that individual countries could not regulate. World history is full of alliances from all kinds of countries that have worked together in all kinds of fields. That works fine. You can't think of it that crazy, all kinds of things have been arranged jointly by countries. There is no reason why we cannot say that: tomorrow the Netherlands will send eight frigates there. Or a different number, then we buy a few more. A few other countries are doing the same. You don't need the EU for that at all. In fact, you see that the EU is hindering a solution, because on the one hand the European Union says that the Member States cannot do it themselves and on the other hand it does not have the political mandate to act decisively, so the European Union creates a vacuum of power and that is why nothing is happening. If it was not for the European Union, I am sure it would have been a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u190	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u191	What we are doing with these proposals is handing our asylum and immigration policies over to Juncker. We will no longer be able to decide who is and who is not allowed to come to the Netherlands. We can no longer determine whether or not the IND is working properly, because this is done on the ground, under the direction of an EU official. It is a very big problem that makes you transfer a great deal of sovereignty. Isn't that something we should be presenting to the people in a referendum, I wonder? Or is this perhaps something Rutte thought would be aligned in a referendum, and should we therefore abolish that referendum as soon as possible? Is that perhaps the reason why the cabinet was in such a hurry to get rid of that referendum? Unilateral action by Member States must be avoided, it sounds like. Then the countries fail, I hear, but why? What's wrong with that fence in Hungary? What is the problem if Austria, Slovenia and the Netherlands, perhaps, decide who is allowed in here and who is not? If Spain and France want open borders, they must do so. But instead of waiting and meeting endlessly in Brussels, we simply have to take back control ourselves and shape our own immigration policy, based on our own decisions about who can and cannot come here and on our own assessment of who brings something here and who does not. That is a sensible policy and that is what the majority of the Dutch population would like. No, Mr. Buma, that's not what the rest of the Chamber wants, but it's what Forum for Democracy wants. Then there are the financial proposals on the table. I am surprised that we are not talking about this now, when these proposals are so linked to the European summit that will take place in the coming week. In his joint paper of 5 March last, the Prime Minister writes that he wants to prevent northern Europe from having to pay for countries that refuse to carry out reforms. However, the Merkel and Macron Meseberg Declaration does not mention structural reforms or compliance with the Stability Pact. How does the Prime Minister judge this and what is he going to do about it? There will be a European Monetary Fund, we read. Within the monetary union, where Merkel and Macron are concerned, central taxation will be imposed, transfers of wealth will be organised, a European budget will be rigged and national budgets and finances will be centrally monitored. In previous speeches, Prime Minister Rutte said no to a euro area budget, a European Minister for Finance, a European Parliament, a banking union and European taxation. Is he prepared to veto the Merkel and Macron proposals? The Netherlands is one of the largest net contributors to the EU, much larger than Belgium, for example, which receives much more from the EU. However, politically we have very little to do with the crumbling of the milk. Why are we such a disproportionate net contributor and what is the Prime Minister going to do about it? We're very worried. When we are dealing with finance and migration, perhaps the most far-reaching steps in European centralisation over the past 20 to 25 years...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u192	You're finishing up?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u193	I'm rounding up. At that time, we have a Prime Minister who is pre-sorting for a European position.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u194	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u195	It's reminiscent of the situation around Lubbers. That is why we are once again asking the Prime Minister to repeat this in a motion which I will table in the second term in order to declare...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u196	No, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u197	... that he will never accept a European job at any time.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u198	Mr. Baudet, everyone has four minutes of speaking time, so do you. With Mr Baudet's contribution, we have come to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 6.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u199	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u200	Mr President, thank you. I want to divide it like this. Now that the very expert Secretary of State Harbers is here, I could of course have answered all the very detailed questions myself,...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u201	Oh! Sorry. Before you go any further, Mr Baudet would like to correct one point.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u202	Madam President. We looked at the Acts for a moment: the accusation of Asscher that I would have talked about " drowning." That is not the case. So: this has been corrected. The word "drowning" didn't fall. I didn't want to use that either. I didn't want to talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u203	Good. I do not want to give the debate room again, because that debate has already been held.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u204	Mr President, I assume that I can now respond to this in one sentence. Mr Baudet is quite right. He wasn't talking about "drowning," he was talking about "sinking the boat." And we know what will happen to the passengers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u205	So that is a serious misconception. People who are drowning can be very well received. You can save people from the sea. People can float with life jackets for a while and then be charged on another boat. "Fun" isn't "drowning." That's really something else. That's another theme. I find it typical to play the moral card again, typically this PvdA tone...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u206	No, no, no. No, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u207	...with which they blackmailed the Netherlands for 40 years. And that's gotta stop now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u208	Well, the Prime Minister doesn't have to do anything anymore. It's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u209	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u210	I think everyone has now said what was meant by such a word.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u211	There's a whole rant coming up on the Labour Party. I appeal to Mr Baudet to say that such a boat could sink. Like that would be a great solution. That seems dangerous to the passengers. That's what he just confirmed on my interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u212	Good. You too have...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u213	Like that would be a great solution, come on! I did not say at all that this would be a great solution or anything. I said, at the time that countries...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u214	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u215	...not allowing boats, doesn't mean that those boats will eventually be allowed somewhere else. That's the point I wanted to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u216	Ready!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u217	You jump over it with: drowning, drowning, drowning. But you're just wrong! Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u218	No, no, no. It's done! Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Asscher. You too have made your point. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u219	Well, chairman, that was my answer! Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u220	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u221	Yes. Now that Mr Harbers is here, I think it is good that he will answer a lot of the questions asked, for example: what is the situation in the region and what are safe countries? He will also answer questions about the largely undeveloped plans on landing sites and the search for other countries for shelter. He will also address the situation with regard to Italy and the alleged Dutch ships. Mr. Chairman. Having said that about the division of roles in this debate, for my part I will say a few things about what is happening on Sunday and next Thursday. I think we have to note that the numbers of refugees coming to Europe are in themselves much lower than a few years ago. As you can see, all the elements of the en- en- en- en- en policy together, the removal of root causes of migration, the prevention as far as possible of the influx of disadvantaged migrants who are not eligible for asylum procedures, the approach within the European Union, the agreements with Turkey, the closure of the Western Balkans, have led to a reduction in the number of migrants, but you can also see that we do not yet have a stable system. We simply do not yet have a stable migration system, within Europe and between European countries and the rest of the world. The fact that this is not yet there is, in itself, a serious matter. Because if the numbers were to rise again, then you would not have enough resources to cope with that. That, I think, is the reason for the discussion in Italy. There, of course, migratory pressures are felt very directly, because a lot of people arrive first in Italy and that is a burden on Italian society. You can see it now in German politics. There is therefore a possibility of this data: the fact that far from everything has been resolved, that a number of debates are being held in Europe, the combination of the political pressure generated by the new form of government in Italy and the political discussions in Germany. In itself, that also offers an opportunity to see if it could succeed in achieving some breakthroughs in this discussion. And the Netherlands is actively trying to contribute to this. Mark Harbers, the Secretary of State, was in Italy this week to meet his new colleague there and to discuss this matter. Donald Tusk is in The Hague tomorrow and we have that extra informal meeting on Sunday. Of course, there is also a lot going on in the telephone circuit. Then what is the Dutch commitment? The Dutch commitment is to further bring this whole issue of migration under control. I actually felt that Mr Asscher had a good record of his four points, which I am trying to do right. We need to connect the short and long term. It's also about solidarity. I will come back to this in a moment, but that also means looking at whether, in the context of the discussions on the Multiannual Financial Framework, it is possible to shorten countries which do not comply with the agreements or who do not want to cooperate. That is also what the Commission is proposing. This also means that more money must be allocated to this. The Netherlands says: with control of the total ceilings. So if you spend more on that, we think there should be cuts elsewhere. But I agree: more money needs to be made available from the European jackpots to the protection and surveillance of external borders, as well as to other elements of migration policy. And if we make agreements with third countries, they must comply with international conventions. I'm gonna take it this way. That's how the Dutch cabinet looks at it. Mr. Chairman. Having said that, perhaps it would be good to address a few specific questions, for example Mr Van Ojik's question. He said: how realistic is it that you are going to get out with other countries and with which countries is that? The coalition agreement says that there has just been a wide-ranging discussion here in the debate, and that it should be possible to make agreements with other countries, to see if you can work together and to see if there can be a part of the shelter, under all the conditions I have just mentioned. The conclusion of agreements is, of course, not an end in itself. That's what we're asking for. These requirements are important, because they will have to be met. There are currently no concrete agreements with countries. There are, of course, many conversations behind the scenes, but at the moment there is nothing to say about which countries in North Africa can be agreed with. That's also very complex. But if it were to succeed, you would be able to gain much more control over that primary migration within all these conditions, especially when it comes to primary migration. In fact, the debate in Europe has been driven partly by primary migration, but also to a large extent by looking at the German debate - secondary migration driven: the people who go through Europe. Then there was the political question of the division of roles between the President of the European Council and the Commission. What the Commission is actually doing this Sunday is organising informal consultations in Brussels between a number of countries. The Netherlands is also there. I believe that this will help to remove some irritation in the run-up to the European Council on Friday. We can also see if we can find directions to come to conclusions eventually. That's all gonna be very complicated. The current political pressure will help, but with that there is no guarantee that next Friday we will suddenly come to huge breakthroughs. Anyway, we're working hard to see if we can do that. In this sense, the efforts of Juncker and Tusk, the Presidents of the Commission and of the Council, are complementary. It is, of course, both intended to find that European answer in the end. This is in response to Mr Azmani, who asked a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u222	A word on the agreements with third countries. The Prime Minister said that they must at least fit within all international legal frameworks: they must comply with international conventions. That makes sense, but it's a good thing he says that again. How realistic is that? "Well, we're not actually talking to countries yet." I've taken note of that. My third point was: how desirable is that? I drew attention to the fact that between 80% and 90% of refugees outside Europe are already being received worldwide in the region, and I pointed out the vulnerability of all those countries, at least those which are now mentioned in the public debate. They already have so many problems of their own. Does the Prime Minister see that risk, too? And how's he gonna address that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u223	I see that risk, but let me mention two things I want to achieve. I, the cabinet and my party do not want any more refugees to come to the Netherlands. The Netherlands, too, will still be open in the future, but much more regulated and organized, to the care of people on the run. Ideally, that is not because people decide to come to Europe via dangerous crossings, but because they can do so in an organised way. Mr Pechtold referred to my radio interview yesterday. This is about the situation after 2021. This concerns internal VVD plans, which we always like to communicate with society about, and they go on in that sense. Basically, the Netherlands will of course remain open, also in those VVD plans, for people who are on the run, but you do want to have it much more regulated. I want to achieve a second thing. I want to ensure that people do not, as they do now, go into boats chaotically with life-threatening crossings, keeping up a whole business model of human smugglers. I think that's the joint task. What if you managed to make arrangements with a country X that didn't require those boats to sail? Suppose instead of sailing to Europe, they sail to another country just nearby to drop the people off there. Of course, you will need appointments, perhaps as with Turkey, where you say: we will get people from the camps to Europe, not the people of the boats but others, in such a one-on-one exchange. You can also agree with such a country on how to set up Europe's might and power to ensure that economic migrants go back, as we are now much further away from countries like Niger and Nigeria than a few years ago, also thanks to the work that Mr Van Ojik has done in other ways; there is still a lot of work to be done. I am also thinking of making agreements on its financing. What if in a few weeks you manage not to sail any more boats to Spain, Italy or wherever they are going and the people stay there, and I do not mean Libya itself, because that is where Mr Harbers will be coming back in a few weeks, then I predict that after three or four weeks, the question is: why would you spend thousands of euros to risk such a dangerous crossing if you do not even arrive in Europe? However, we are, of course, talking to those countries about how to ensure that you can manage migratory pressures in those countries in a structured and sensible way, in accordance with the famous letter of 9 September 2015 from the previous cabinet, and how to support them in all kinds of ways. I don't understand why I didn't understand in the formation with GroenLinks, what the objection is and why we wouldn't want to do this. Fortunately, a lot of people in Europe want to do this to make sure that you stop those life-threatening crossings without that means that there are no more migrants coming to Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u224	Let me make it clear that if there is anything that connects me to this Prime Minister's story, it is the desire to prevent people from getting on those life-threatening boats and coming to Europe. I think you can disagree about the way you do that, but not about that purpose. I really hope that we recognise this from each other, and that the proposals made by my party are also recognised that they do not in any way detract from that common goal. You can only do that in different ways. In my contribution, I mentioned a number of examples of things that can happen in Africa itself in order to prevent people from getting into that crummy boat. Looking at the current practice of receiving refugees and the tensions that this entails, for example, in Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon, my question is how to prevent this kind of tension from happening in those other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u225	By keeping migratory pressure in those countries manageable, by taking over people from those countries exactly as the previous cabinet wrote in its letter of September 2015, which policy this cabinet continues, making sure that if the migratory pressure gets too high, you are willing to take over people from those countries and in the first weeks that it happens, you are willing to pick up someone in the camp via one-on-one schedules, as we also agreed with Turkey, for everyone who takes them. However, that is not the one who is in that boat, because it comes at the bottom of the list, unless it is someone who is under special protection, for example among the LBT target group or other target groups that are at risk in the country concerned. The larger group of people will be at the bottom of the list. You get the others out of the camps. That's what you do for two, three weeks, and then that model stops. Mr Van Ojik can believe to me that I am a free market thinker. He is in favour of making pot available through the coffee shops. Why? Because he knows about this, and that's why they're in favour of GroenLinks being there where there's demand, there's supply. That goes for here, too. So you have to get rid of the question. You can take away that question by making sure that people know that if they get on board a boat for thousands of euros they are dangerous! It is not a matter of arriving in Europe, it is a matter of staying somewhere in the region. The reception in the region must be done in a decent way, and we must ensure that those countries that help can deal with this immigration pressure in a decent way, because we simply continue to assume our responsibilities. That's how you stop these uncontrolled crossings; that's how you get more control over migration. I think that is important, because the main objective we have now is to break this terrible situation in the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u226	I am listening to what the Prime Minister is saying, but I am not actually hearing the Prime Minister of the Netherlands talking, but someone talking on behalf of the EU institutions. What he says does not amount to serving the Dutch interest as quickly as possible; it amounts to thinking from the European institutional interest and then approaching this problem through those channels, without any guarantee that it will succeed. Why doesn't he just take Merkel and a few others to the table tomorrow to set up a fleet blockade? Then you can stop those boats, and you can deal with this problem right away. Set it up bilaterally, rule it multilaterally, don't sit around waiting for the European Union to finally meet. The only reason I can come up with that is that you are actually thinking from the EU and not from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u227	That is strange, because Mr Baudet is coming up with a European solution. It is a different European solution than I have, but it is a European solution, with the Germans and I assume with the French. These are all European countries. What does Mr Baudet want? Does he want a purely Dutch solution, or does he say that there are other European solutions? I agree with him on that last point. The other European solution he is proposing is also possible. I wouldn't be in favour of it, because it seems a little hysterical the way he thinks of it here, but it could be on its own. You can look at that, even if I wouldn't argue for it, so I say again. But it is a European solution, so let us see that there are two European solutions here.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u228	There is a persistent misunderstanding here, which I have raised in the Chamber on a number of occasions. There is a difference between Europe, the continent, and the EU, the institutions. Indeed, no one is against working with other European countries. Non-European countries could also help with such a fleet blockade and so on. That alone has nothing to do with the EU. What is wrong with forcing a concrete result as soon as possible by setting up, as the Netherlands, together with a number of other countries, a coalition of the willing to act unilaterally, multilaterally, bilaterally, in all possible contexts, and to address this problem? Why is it always meeting in Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u229	Well, there's nothing against that. In 2016 the Netherlands and Germany made the appointment with Turkey. In the end, this could be integrated into an EU framework, which of course is always preferable to other constructions. There is nothing against it in itself, but this particular solution, I repeat, sounds a bit hysterical.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u230	This is your third question, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u231	I'll draw them out, too, 'cause we'll be done with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u232	And he thinks that's funny, but the rest of the Netherlands doesn't. Why is a European solution always preferable, as the Prime Minister says? Explain that. It's not working. The European Union is not working. Why is it preferable? There's only one reason I can think of.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u233	I did not say that I prefer a European solution. I note that we are making a plea to see if, as a European Union, you can make agreements with countries in the region and that Mr Baudet is proposing to do so with other European countries. That is just as European a solution, not from the institutions, but from countries in Europe. It is a hysterical proposal from Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u234	Then I will go to Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u235	I want the Prime Minister's pleasure in concluding an agreement. What if we find one of those countries that we can make such a deal with? That's how it went with the Turkey deal at the time. He just showed up. It was a statement that we have never really been able to approve or reject in Parliament. Does the Prime Minister share my view that, if such an agreement is to be reached, we should be able to have a proper parliamentary debate on it, because of all the issues relating to human rights, security, procedures and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u236	Well, I think we had a lot of debates on those agreements with Turkey then, so I don't see the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u237	Of course, we have had a lot of debates on this Turkey deal, but it has never been a formal directive or law that we could approve or reject. Do you understand that when next week, in the theoretical case, it suddenly appears that Tunisia is prepared to sign such a declaration with Europe, we as a parliament should be able to have a good debate on it instead of you coming to us with that statement and saying: look, it's settled, it's going to be Tunisia, period? Surely we should be able to have a debate on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u238	My experience here is that we debate everything with each other for a long time. So why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u239	I understand that very well. Debates we feed...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u240	Mr Van Dijk wants a bill, I understand now. But this is something that several countries do, isn't it? We can't necessarily put this into Dutch legislation. I don't know if that's gonna work. But the debate will be held. And, of course, it will be examined whether there is support for such an approach. Moreover, I note here in the debate that, if within certain frameworks, there is broad support for such an approach, because I think we all want to get rid of these dangerous boat trips.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u241	We all want to get rid of these life-threatening boat trips, but at the same time the Prime Minister acknowledges that if such a statement and such a centre are to be made in Tunisia, for example, it will meet standards. That's what we're worried about. When, for example, France and Germany say that they have the possibility of such a deal, you will undoubtedly want to know exactly what it contains. And so does parliament. That's all I'm asking. Can we then have a thorough debate on this rather than face up to facts, and possibly human rights violations, which you and I do not want at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u242	Yeah, I guess so. But France and Germany are also states of law, aren't they? Why should we think that they violate human rights and make agreements? Besides, it's not like the two of them are just trying to do that. We do that across a broader front, with other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u243	Firstly, you can ask questions about the Turkey deal, because there is also talk of human rights violations. Secondly, I read in the newspaper that Macron is best prepared to meet Merkel in the area of migration deals if Merkel meets him in the area of a European budget. That's some kind of handshake. And I don't think that's the point. We need to be able to have a good debate on this type of far-reaching dossier, and it should not be a hand-clap deal. Do you share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u244	I very much agree with Mr Van Dijk on the latter. Several questions have been asked about a link between the debates on the future of the euro and migration. For the Netherlands, these are two totally separate discussions. We're not gonna make concessions on one file to pull the other. You will have to look within the dossier to see if we can reach agreements within Europe, and between Europe and other parts of the world on the issue of migration. However, we are not going to mix that in any way with the debate on the euro, except for the point I just said to Mr Asscher: I can imagine that, as far as the multiannual budget is concerned, in accordance with the Commission's proposals, there will be a conditionality for countries that do not comply with agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u245	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u246	Several spokesmen, including Mr Pechtold, have asked what Mr Tusk's precise proposals are. Mark Harbers will go into that further. Of course, all this is far from completely sharp, but at the core it seems to be in line with Dutch thinking to see if you can provide shelter in the region within decent frameworks. I have answered the question about the link to the MFF and to EMU. Mr. Chairman. Then I am through my questions and suggest that Mr Harbers take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u247	I have two more questions for the Prime Minister. Firstly, he agrees with me that these root causes should also be addressed. This is also apparent from the cabinet letter. Is he prepared to use this moment of great political pressure to try to achieve a breakthrough there? The Germans have spoken before about a marshal plan. I think if you see what's going on in Africa over the next few decades, it's also a time to try to make agreements on that. Is he willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u248	Yes, only I heard Mr Asscher say that this is necessarily more money. We see, of course, in Sigrid Kaag's documents on behalf of the entire cabinet that this is one of the important objectives of development cooperation policy, including from this coalition. This is similar to the previous coalition, by the way. I imagine that the more political question will emerge as to what it means for the question of how much money you spend on development cooperation. I think there is a very different question before that: how do we spend the money as well and as well as possible? But I agree with Mr Asscher in his own right: you will also have to focus on removing the root causes in the en- en- en policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u249	I appreciate that, and I understand that very well. I think there's more than just the amount of money. But I think we're gonna need more money. I hope to hear more about that from the cabinet. The second question is a sensitive one, I realize that. But the question arises, because countries such as Italy and Hungary act brutally unilaterally. That is the question as to whether it is conceivable that a country should remain a member of Schengen if that country withdraws from all these agreements. You can also end up in a mini-Schengen form, in which the participants show solidarity and adhere to the agreements. Because you shouldn't get into the situation that you're being blackmailed by the blunt refusal of countries to abide by agreements that are just made.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u250	The tricky thing is that this requires a very precise weighting. Hungary declares itself against the redistribution of refugees. That is not in itself against Schengen. What they do, though, is pretty extreme guarding the outer border. They have to, and they do very well. The question is whether Hungary is strictly in breach of Schengen. They are contrary, I believe, to the principle of solidarity within the European Union, but that does not necessarily conflict with Schengen. The same applies to Italy. It is not the case that Italy has to take up the ships, but Mr Harbers will go into that further. The captains of those ships must search for the nearest safe haven. That's not necessarily Italy. I do believe that this is a matter for Schengen and that the Commission is right to criticise Italy as regards the speed of procedures and the whole logistics of asylum procedures in Italy. You can rightly criticise this and it does touch Schengen. I do not think that we are ready for the question of whether they can stay in Schengen or not. I don't think that's the issue right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u251	The third question, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u252	Finally, my final question. I understand that, and I am not trying to provoke threats, but the Prime Minister spoke recently about Europe as a community of values, and that had our support. Then I think that this is also a time to speak out very clearly about the cafeteria that you see today in countries that say: we want these European subsidies, we want our workers to work throughout Europe and we want to work without frontiers, but now it is not convenient for us to do so. I do not ask the Prime Minister to anticipate that, but I do expect the Dutch Government to be very clear about this, because it is also about Europe's support for the European Union. The feeling that not only we from the Netherlands make our contribution, but that all countries must do so, is part of those European values.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u253	That is indeed very basic to the rule of law. We are, of course, very concerned about what is happening in Poland, which our own Frans Timmermans is working hard on on on behalf of the European Commission, in order to avoid further steps which we would not like to see. This then becomes more of a general principle of solidarity. Then you will eventually have your instruments, as Mr Asscher himself pointed out, also in the MFF, to make more direct links between them, I would say also in relation to whether countries are reforming. But then it gets back to EMU. In this case, it is a question of whether countries are participating and are also showing solidarity in terms of "shouling" and sharing the burden of migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u254	Here is a Prime Minister who has promised everything, but in recent years has really broken all the asylum and immigration records that exist. Now I want to know: what can we pay this Prime Minister for? I hear an answer here that really excels in non-committality: it's going to be very complicated to settle something, but we're going to do our best. No, that's not what it takes. It's gonna take some real action. What can we charge this Prime Minister for? In his view, what is the migration ceiling and the asylum ceiling that the Netherlands can handle and when should that be achieved? Just concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u255	I think I am the one who worked hard with the previous cabinet, together with Bert Koenders and Klaas Dijkhoff at the time, to get the agreements with Turkey done. I do not want to breast-knock, but I would actually have expected a little compliment from Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u256	This is not an answer to the question. This is a faint remark about the Turkey deal, and I would point out that the decline in the number of arrivals in Greece from Turkey prior to the entry into force of the Turkey deal was already under 5,000. So this Turkey deal hasn't solved anything. The Balkan countries have solved it by closing the Balkan route. But my question remains, Mr President. This Prime Minister has broken all the immigration records that are out there, and now he can't get away with the "we're gonna do our best." No! What can we charge this Prime Minister for? In his view, what is the migration ceiling that the Netherlands can handle, the asylum ceiling that the Netherlands can handle, and when will that be achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u257	If Mr Fritsma means to say that the support in Dutch society for the reception of refugees is limited, he is of course right. One of the reasons why the cabinet is so motivated and why in the Netherlands there is in itself support for the reception of real refugees, is that the support in society to do so also finds its limit when it eventually becomes a combination of too high numbers and out of control. That is precisely why we have been so motivated, myself in the previous period and this cabinet pursuing that policy, to do everything in our power to ensure that it is manageable. It's manageable right now when you look at the numbers. Oh, thank God! At the same time, the system is not solid enough and that is why I am committed to ensuring that we and our partners make sure that it is robust, should peaks arise again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u258	Third question, Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u259	Then there is the third question, because that is not the way it works, Mr President. I'm just asking the Prime Minister what his goals are and what we can count on him on. I just can't get an answer to that, and that's weird. The Prime Minister is just stalling like this. He's gonna say, "We tried. It didn't work, unfortunately. In the meantime, I've broken all the immigration records out there." You can't work like that, can you? Surely the Chamber should be able to talk to this Prime Minister about something and count on it? What can we actually do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u260	I believe I answered the question, Mr President. I have explained to Mr Fritsma that I am working hard on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u261	We all work hard!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u262	I am not doing that alone, because the entire coalition is doing that, as are its colleagues on Justice and Security, Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation. We are doing this to ensure that we have support in society for the reception of asylum seekers fleeing war and violence. We have to catch those people without having to cross that dangerous one. We have seen in 2015-2016 that support in this society is naturally limited, even with me personally. That requires a combination of being in control and... We were out of control for some time at the end of '15, early '16, and people don't want that from government and policy. Secondly, the numbers must be such that society can cope. That's what I'm working on. That is the case at the moment, but that does mean that we must guarantee it. We have to prevent it, and that's where my concern is that if there are any peaks, we also have the system to deal with it. That is not sufficiently regulated at the moment, and that is why it is my aim.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u263	I was glad that Mr Asscher mentioned the root causes. We also asked some questions about it. Where Mr Asscher limited himself to dealing with the root causes in the countries themselves, I spoke in my speech about the root causes that we ourselves cause, including because of our lifestyle. I would like the Prime Minister to reflect on that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u264	Well, I think you're talking to a cabinet that has one of Europe's most ambitious CO reduction targets. We want a 55% reduction in CO emissions by 2030 compared to 1990. We actually want to approach the 1.5 oC warming. We are working very hard on this limitation to 1.5 oC in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u265	I am pleased that Mr Rutte is saying this, because he knows that the measures now proposed will contribute about half of them and that half of them will also start once again after this period. So we're only at a quarter. In view of Mr Rutte's heartfelt plea to address these root causes in his own country, I would ask him to see if we can take livestock and, for example, aviation actively into the climate plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u266	Oh, oh, Now we are very far from the subject of this debate. I will stick to the previous answer and take note of Mr Van Raan's comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u267	I spoke earlier in my speech about a possible exchange of immigration and the euro budget. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, now that he is at the end of his reply, about this. Does he agree with me that the fact that there is a deal, including on the euro budget, puts additional pressure on next week's talks for the Netherlands? That's why we're talking about it now. France and Germany have made that agreement and this makes it more difficult for the Netherlands, because that compromise actually means that the others must go along with it. The Netherlands has a clear position on this, namely that these two countries do not decide on it, because we all do so. Nor do we have half of the Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u268	And the question is, Mr. Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u269	That means that the others have to go along with it, but the details have not yet been completed. Do you feel that pressure?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u270	No, not at all. I also think we're making ourselves so small. We have freedom of association and assembly in Europe, so Merkel and Macron can come together as often as they want and make agreements. We don't have to respond to that every time and comment on it, do we? We come up with our own proposals. The Netherlands has made a whole series of proposals on strengthening the euro area. Look at the coalition agreement and look at what I said with the support of the coalition in Berlin and last week in Strasbourg. Others also come up with proposals. When you put them next to each other, you see differences on parts and sometimes similarities. I would say that the banking union is now a priority. It's a real priority right now. The whole discussion on the Multiannual Financial Framework will take some time. I would say: let us see how far we can get to the banking union. We're talking about getting the migration system stable. For the banking union, too, we must make Europe Resilient for another crisis. There the differences of opinion are somewhat smaller. I don't feel so called to respond to that. If Mr Van Rooijen's question were: do you feel pressured? No. Is there a connection to this file? Zero point zero, except for that link to the MFK. I think that from countries that are not participating, you can ask to feel that in what they get from the European jackpots. I said something similar to Mr Asscher in response to his remarks. Other than that, there's really no link between those two files. Then you're gonna trade out impossible things. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u271	I have the literal text from the Bundespresseamt of Tuesday about what Merkel and Macron have said there, in German. Of course, I'm not going to quote that. It does say that Merkel says: wir haben einen Entwurf für die zukunftige Eurozone. And about the details...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u272	You wouldn't quote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u273	I can say it in Dutch. There is a draft for a future euro area but we are still discussing the details with our partners. Macron said before, we have now...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u274	Now in French.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u275	... achieves a deal that we will continue to discuss in detail with our partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u276	Nous sommes arrivés.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u277	These are texts, I shall give them to the Prime Minister who speak volumes. He may have read them, or I'll give them to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u278	No, thank you. I'd rather not. Mr Van Rooijen speaks in the Dutch Parliament. We are a sovereign country and a member of the European Union. Other sovereign countries working together in the European Union are coming together, as we are also talking to other countries to come up with common positions. There's nothing against that, is there? But we make ourselves as small as we say: Oh, France and Germany are coming together and they have also come up with a number of things, then we have to react immediately; that will be inevitable. We have our own proposals. We're gonna talk about that in the next few months. This will be largely within the framework of the multiannual budget. That's really gonna take a while. If I may make a comment: if you want to do something fast, I would prefer to see if you can take further steps in the area of banking union. That is what we will be discussing on Tuesday in the debate. There's a couple of scaffolding up against the building I'd rather get out of there.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u279	The Prime Minister says that we should not react directly to this and should not worry about it. I would point out that Sunday, Minister Hoekstra of Finance, who is also talking about it, said in a very hard interview in the Frankfurter Allgemeine: they can jump high and low those two, but I am simply not going to participate. There are no half countries. All countries must say yes, including the Netherlands. And we're not gonna do that. He even responded Sunday before the deal came. You're saying you're not gonna respond to that deal between the two of them, because we shouldn't make ourselves small. I agree. It is not getting any easier, but I am glad that Minister Hoekstra has already told us what he thinks on Sunday. I'm sure you'll agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u280	A thousand percent. He has also said things today about what I fully agree with when the euro group comes up. That's not where the discussion is. What Hoekstra and I also say is: let's talk about our own proposals, because you make yourself as small as you panic because a few big brothers think of something. Then it's obviously inevitable. Of course we think of all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u281	Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u282	Since the Prime Minister is now ready, and I think he is responding to the bigger plans that are now under way, I would like to ask him how he looks at the plans for Albania. Albania is also mentioned as a possible migratory country. He points to the Secretary of State, but since he is here talking about the plans in broad terms, I would like to ask that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u283	Those are all rumors, ideas; it's all still so vague. Do I have to respond to what you hear from, for example, the Danish-Austrian corner? They're all just rumors and we don't know exactly what it is. And that also applies: let's see what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u284	That is why I am curious about what we think, and that is why we are having this debate. Mr Tusk also responded to the Austrian and Danish plans. He has said that he looks kindly at it. Because we have put in the government agreement that we want to counter the boats, the drownings and the earning model of the human traffickers, I ask: what does the Prime Minister, Albania, see in this context?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u285	The coalition agreement does not oppose what Tusk said about it. But again, then I go back to all sorts of rumors, while it is still so vague and unexplored. But, strictly speaking, that does not go against the coalition agreement if you do it within international regulations. If people thought they were going to a country within the European Union, and they end up somewhere in the vicinity of the European Union where it is not as pleasant as it is in the European Union, then of course it will have its effects on the Creators' system.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u286	No, this has everything to do with the coalition agreement, because precisely those migration deals have been placed in the context of preventing those boats and drownings. Those deals have that purpose and are also so argued. That is why the government agreement also refers to possible migration deals. If we finally do that with Albania, that may sound easy, because Albania is on the European continent, but then we will not achieve the objectives we set out in the coalition agreement. Then the boats keep coming and the drownings continue. So I would like to hand over the Prime Minister to be very critical when it comes to Albania.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u287	Mr Voordewind keeps repeating "Albania," but I do not know any detailed proposals in that direction. There are only rumors. I agree with him that the coalition agreement states that you must break that system of boats. Then I say, without mentioning countries: if you thought you were going to end up in Italy, or Germany, or the Netherlands, and you end up somewhere outside the European Union in a country that is far from meeting our standards, then I think that has quite a negative impact on the business model of boat smugglers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u288	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u289	Now it's gonna be exciting!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u290	Thank you, Mr President. I'm going into a number of themes. I start with the conversation I had with my new Italian colleague yesterday, because a brief report was asked for. Firstly, the Italian colleague had respect for the Netherlands, because, unlike many other countries in Europe, the Netherlands, in the time of the migration crisis, simply complied with the resettlement arrangements, including by resettling people from Italy. That was a basis to look at: where can we find each other? We do that from a very different position. Italy is a country where people enter and the Netherlands is a country that is the destination for a number of people. So you have a very different starting position, but you run into the same problems that you can't possibly solve on your own. To solve those problems, you need each other. Over the last two years too little has been done in this area in Europe, also because countries have come together with each other's backs. So it is wise to see on which parts you can find each other. Those are the elements of the approach to en-and-and-forth and just mentioned by the Prime Minister. We need to do more to guard the external borders. Indeed, it is a good measure to monitor these external borders, even if some Member States say that without the surveillance of these external borders, we really do not want to talk about anything else. So for two reasons, you just have to do that. We must also work with safe third countries outside the European Union. I will come back to the different ideas that exist before that. But at least this is also necessary to break the business model of the smugglers. And we have to do two things in the European Union, because then people will still come to Europe. I am not going to start with the Dublin Regulation, but with all the other proposals for further harmonisation of asylum procedures within the European Union. There too, too little has been done in the last two years and we can find each other there, for example because Italy seems to be working seriously on a return policy for the first time. Until now, this has hardly existed in Italy, whereas we have a lot of experience with it in the Netherlands and a number of other countries. We do not always get the numbers we would like, but we do have something to say about how you could organize that and how you should develop it together. Then at the very end you have the Dublin regulation, which we think differently about. I recognise that when people are sent back under the Dublin regulation to the country where they entered Europe, this puts a great deal of pressure on the countries around the Mediterranean. We must then help to alleviate this pressure through resettlement and as proportionate a distribution as possible in the European Union; we do so and we agree on that. We still disagree about the exact agreements underneath.How long are you responsible and so on? But here too, there is the recognition that we cannot solve this on our own. In that respect, it was a good conversation. We are having more of this kind of conversation, both the Prime Minister and I, with many countries in Europe to see what we can now agree on.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u291	Last question, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u292	I hear Mr Harbers say that we cannot solve this on our own. I don't understand. I think that is also wrong. It is possible, but it is only a political choice for more EU not to do so. Surely there is no reason why we cannot say, as the Netherlands or as another sovereign country, that we are going to guard our borders again and shape our immigration policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u293	In theory, that would be possible, but that is exactly what I am trying to avoid and avoid a lot of countries around us and beyond in Europe. We have benefited greatly from a Europe of open borders. If you do what Mr Baudet proposes, we will close all borders again and return to the Europe before 1985, with long waiting times at the border and sound controls. I wouldn't want that. Many people suffer from this: frontier commuters, tourists, truck drivers and so on. I would much rather look for a solution where we can maintain the Schengen open border area, although that is much more complex than just closing the border. If you have these open borders, the other side of the coin is that you have to agree together on what you do with the reception and procedures of asylum seekers, because they can also cross those open borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u294	Please continue. Everyone has the same number of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u295	A number of Members of your Chamber have asked what Mr Buma called "Oh, he is not there now" the cynical game with the boats on the Mediterranean. The Netherlands has made clear in recent weeks, but also in recent years, what our flag state responsibility looks like. We are making this clear to Italy and to all the countries that want to know. This means that we support life-saving activities, but that then the law of the sea applies and also the flag state responsibility of a nation for ships. We are responsible for ships flying the Dutch flag and actually registered in the Dutch register of ships and therefore have a sea letter which qualifies them as a Dutch vessel. There are several NGO ships operating between Italy and Libya. The ship on which press releases have been made today is one of the ships of German NGOs that do fly a Dutch flag, but are not registered in our ship register. The Law of the Sea then states that the country in whose search and rescue area drones are picked up has the primary responsibility to ensure that, in consultation with the captain of the ship, a safe harbour is found as close as possible. It even says that the captain should deviate as little as possible from his route. If the rescue operation takes place within the Italian search and rescue area, it is reasonable that Italy should initially seek a safe place. That does not even necessarily have to be Italy, it can also be one of the other ports in one of the neighbouring countries. It could even be another ship, which is better equipped to catch the drownings, after which a further search is made for a port. At the same time, the current rules are not designed to apply to all kinds of ships, sometimes even recreational craft, engaged in rescue operations. We see this happening to a large extent. The Dutch Government also sees that as a result of our Dutch legislation, in which some ships fly the Dutch flag without being qualified as a Dutch vessel, it may become unclear for other states whether or not these ships are under Dutch nationality and are entitled to fly the Dutch flag. From the cabinet, therefore, we intend to review the existing laws and regulations in this area once again and also to assess whether, on the basis of the current regulations, the ships of the NGOs of Dutch nationality are adequately constructed and equipped to carry out large-scale rescue operations in a responsible manner. But once again, and just to the situation today, there are more than enough countries in the area where there are safe ports. That is where the responsibility would lie, including the current law of the sea. Mr. Chairman. This is kind of a bridge...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u296	Soon there will be a recess, but given the moment of Princess Day and budget, it is nice to be able to discuss how we proceed. I think we have a serious point: ships that have nothing to do with the Netherlands are flying the flag for their magical reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u297	Sure. The cabinet is considering it. I think we'll have a map of that before Princess Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u298	Well, I like that the cabinet is going to consider the question I just asked, but I don't see it that hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u299	Well, also on solutions. But, of course, we ourselves see that this can lead to uncertainty in the current context. That also calls for an answer. Mr. Chairman. This is a bridge. This is never a solution: just close ports and see if there are ad hoc solutions. Once again, it is clear, as I have just indicated in the en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en. en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en te. en- en- en. en- en- en- en. en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- en- We must speed up the process and see if we can speed up the implementation of this. Mr Van Dijk, for example, asked what all these different proposals are and what the government's position is on them. I repeat the Prime Minister: there are a lot of ideas that are sometimes launched in one, two sentences, but which have not yet been developed at all. Roughly, you can distinguish three. Plans on return centres in third countries. Austria and Denmark have said that even the return policy actually depends on which country you are in and whether that country happens to have a return agreement, if not at European level, with a country of origin. Maybe you should pool that in a third country. But it's not more than that. Then there's the plan for regional shipping centres. You can take that literally. I read the word 'platform', but you can also see the outline of the plan contained in the Dutch coalition agreement and the integrated migration agenda, including all the guarantees behind it. The third is the treatment of asylum procedures outside Europe. The latter is more of a "big deal," but that was a long time ago, and the European Commission also looked at it in detail in 2002. It turned out to be legally and practically extremely complex. But who knows, under the safeguards we put them on the table every time from the Dutch Government, such a model could succeed again. I think it is good that these ideas are being worked on and that they are being further developed. For the sake of clarity, I would refer the Dutch cabinet's position to the many debates we have had. We believe that there should always be an opportunity for those who say 'I am actually a refugee, I have good grounds for asylum' to start an asylum procedure. If that is in such a country and the state of the country itself does not allow it, then you still have the alternative for UNHCR to start such an asylum procedure. There should be an opportunity for vulnerable people in particular to be re-established. However, along these contours and with the guarantee that the reception conditions in such a safe third country will in any case also materially satisfy the basic conditions we know from the Refugee Convention. So you must have shelter, food, care, education, etc., it could work as far as the Dutch cabinet is concerned and we are always willing to contribute somewhere in Europe to the further development of such ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u300	Before I give the floor to Mr Voordewind, I should like to know what progress you have made in answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u301	Pretty far.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u302	That's about what?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u303	I estimate in five to ten minutes, max.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u304	The last point, how we do asylum procedures outside Europe, is indeed an old plan. The external processing centres have been mentioned earlier. The Commission's plans are very comprehensive. The letter from the government also refers to this; the asylum procedures. But next week's annotated agenda talks about the UNHCR. That's another route. Do I understand now that the cabinet is holding on to asylum procedures outside Europe, despite being complex and not following the route, at least that it does not have the first preference to do it through the UNHCR, as we now hear from Tusk?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u305	Again, all these ideas are getting mixed up. Tusk is talking, in his words, about a shipping platform. So there are people saved at sea who have to land somewhere. On the ground, then, you must be able to draw up the outlines of the coalition agreement and to separate those who still want to apply for asylum from those who say in advance: I am an economic migrant, so I am not eligible for it. Those who apply for asylum should do so to the authorities of the State where they were landed. If that country does not have a procedure for doing so, we say that you should at least have an alternative, for example by taking responsibility for doing an asylum procedure. That is quite different from the concept of an external processing centre, where, as I understand it, you are actually carrying out an asylum procedure under European responsibility. That was decided a long time ago and proved not legally feasible at the time. But again, it hasn't worked out yet. Who knows, there might be a way to do that by now. But it is a different idea than to land people in a safe third country and what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u306	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u307	I can tell you a lot more about what it should all meet, but we have laid down all the conditions in detail. I suspect that everyone in the Chamber will know that in the end. In any case, these are conditions that the Cabinet is always monitoring. In fact, they have to meet that. There were a number of questions about the logical consequence, namely relocation of asylum seekers, as we do under the EU-Turkey agreement: one-on-one towards Europe. I even heard Mr Asscher say that the cabinet is limited in its resettlement ambitions. I think we are a little more generous, because it is not just the overall resettlement on the basis of the UNHCR quota, which went from 500 to 750. Apart from that, we also contribute to the resettlement arrangements on the basis of the EU-Turkey agreement. I have already indicated to the Chamber: if it comes to new agreements, the cabinet will know that as a result, more resettlement will also have to be done. That always makes sense in an appointment like this. We realize you're gonna do more resettlement. That does not mean that our IND is no longer about this; I honestly did not understand what Mr Baudet said about this in this debate. There's another way to look at it. At the moment people come to the Netherlands unregulated and go into proceedings in the Netherlands, in Ter Apel. Then the IND will indeed make the assessment, but you have little control over how the flow to the Netherlands goes. It is precisely the whole resettlement process, including what we are doing under the EU-Turkey Declaration, or the resettlement from UNHCR, that is accompanied by the IND. In advance, we know a lot more about those who come here. In fact, we can inform them beforehand about the Netherlands and we can inform them. It happens that people say: of the options I have, I would rather not go to the Netherlands, because I think that country is not as good for me. I even think that the position of the Netherlands and our IND will improve if we have a regulated resettlement in Europe instead of the unregulated model now.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u308	I am going to Mr Van Ojik, because we have agreed on how many interruptions are allowed. You're through, Mr. Baudet. The same applies to Mr Voordewind and Mr Jasper van Dijk. Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u309	Then I'll get my turn, 'cause I got two more.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u310	Yes. You're keeping up.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u311	The Secretary of State talks about resettlement of vulnerable groups and additional resettlement if we are to arrange procedures or reception in third countries. The Prime Minister mentioned one-on-one. I heard that right, didn't I? "One-on-one" means that for every person who seeks protection here in Europe and is sent back, whatever you call it, take one person back to North Africa. That's the system the Secretary of State is talking about, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u312	That is the only model we have tried so far in the EU-Turkey agreement. That's where it works well. That is to say, if people go from Greece to Turkey again, but there is still some difficulty in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u313	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u314	Yeah, I'm gonna finish up. Finally, a few brief questions. It was asked which countries in North Africa are safe countries. Again, we never think that a country is a safe third country in advance. The concept of safe third country will only be applied if there is an asylum application. If the applicant has been in a safe third country, the application for asylum may be declared inadmissible, but it is always made on an individual basis. If you move on to the concept of a migration appointment, you will need to take more guarantees and agree with the country in question. I'm zooming in on the countries in North Africa that might be. For a very different purpose, namely to determine whether it is a safe country of origin, I recently sent the Chamber the results of the re-evaluation. We have re-examined Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia. On this basis, we have said that these are generally safe countries of origin, making an exception for those affected. This applies to all three countries. Of course, it will always be examined individually whether someone will not be afraid of persecution. That gives us a basis. The concept of safe third country is, of course, different from safe country of origin, but it is a basis that could be discussed with countries in North Africa. Mr van Dijk asked about Libya. We have talked about this many times. If you are thinking of the concept of an agreement with a safe third country, it is obvious that we Libya do not currently qualify for it. That's what I've said to your room before. At the same time, the question is whether the EU should support Libya's coastguard. I have said before that it is good to continue capacity building with the Coast Guard. The art guard is there and it sails there. Every country by the sea has a coastguard. So we should do our best to improve the functioning of the Libyan Coast Guard. However, as the European Union, it is very important that the coastguard's activities are monitored. We are therefore constantly calling for the monitoring of the Libyan Coast Guard to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u315	Finally. Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u316	Of course, every country has a coastguard. The special feature of the Libyan Coast Guard is that it brings back the people who are being picked up from the sea to camps in Libya. We have talked about this on a number of occasions, but unfortunately this has not yet contributed to the solution of this problem. In the camps in Libya, people are victims of torture or slavery. That practice still exists. Six months ago, after visiting these camps, the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development said that these camps should be closed. Now we are going to support the Coast Guard more without closing those camps. Coast Guard's bringing the people back to those camps. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u317	I agree with Mr Van Ojik, as I have said on many occasions, that it is degrading what is happening there and, above all, what is happening there. I also believe that everyone recognizes that you have not improved that situation overnight. But there is an improvement in the meantime. Some of those camps are closed. In the camps that are still in place and which are also in the area where the central government has authority, international organisations now have access and we have been more and more able, since the EU-AU Summit in November, to repatriate people with the help of UNHCR and IOM to their country of origin. Those are movements that we must continue. We are far from there, because there are still too many people left in Libya, but it is precisely in order to be able to continue that movement that I have recently explained this with Mr Kaag in a letter to the Chamber that we need to remain there in order to continue to press on. However, Mr Van Ojik is right; we are far from in the ideal situation. Libya is also a much too complicated country for that. But gradually we are working on improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u318	Finally, Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u319	This reply by the Secretary of State is also a theoretical story which completely ignores reality. I'll take one thing out. Everyone always talks about resettlement within Europe. This means bringing migrants or refugees to Europe and distributing them across the various Member States. But does the Secretary of State really think that if you send refugees to a country like Poland, they will stay there if they have Polish nationality after a few years, and therefore have the right to free movement of persons and can go anywhere and settle anywhere? Does the Secretary of State really think they're all staying in Poland?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u320	No, once they have an indefinite permit, or stronger, if they have been naturalized even later, they have become EU citizens who have free movement of persons. Conversely, it is not the case that everyone who ever received a residence permit in the Netherlands stayed in the Netherlands. Those moves are much bigger than you and I think. That is the consequence of being in Europe for a long time. For this we must do everything we can in the Netherlands or in other countries to ensure that people are well integrated and better integrated than in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u321	No, you're through your interruptions, too. There is also a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u322	And then I have one final question: Mr Pechtold's question about the possibilities of legal migration. Following an earlier statement by the Chamber that you should not do so, I have recently said that I am aware that the Chamber wants a little more restraint on that point. I've also indicated that the thinking doesn't stop in the meantime. The cabinet does carry out a reconnaissance where the use of legal migration opportunities is broader than just work, but that could also contribute to his study, visa or similar return. As far as we're concerned, it's a straight crossing, so don't promise everything first and then find that return still doesn't work. I have indicated that if we are so far that this would lead to concrete proposals, I will simply present them to the Chamber and I would like to start that debate again, in order to explain why this is also essential if we are to achieve improved return cooperation. I'm dealing a little within that restraint that the Chamber has requested, but the thinking doesn't stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u323	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u324	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are looking, as I said in the first term, for the balance between humanity and manageability, and that is complicated enough. There are a lot of things we agree on, I believe, and also things the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has problems with. Some have said in my first term that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is on its own. I said at the time, and I repeat this now: I find that painful, but that is not in itself a reason for my group to change that position. That is only about one part, and that is the outsourcing of the reception and procedure of refugees outside Europe. That is what the difference of opinion focuses on. What we agree on, and I am pleased that both the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State have stressed this, is that whatever we do, it must take place within the limits of international law. Since I have not heard so much about the international debate in the discussion so far, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Heads of Government are working on new migration arrangements next week;]] [[calls on the Government to recommend that conclusions on migration include a review of the plans under the UN Refugee Convention, the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea and relevant European directives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30573-141]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u325	I forgot to thank the rulers for answering all the questions. I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u326	Mr Voordewind, one question, on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u327	Let me clarify a question about the motion, because this is about the literal text of what is in the coalition agreement. The coalition agreement indicates those conditions, so it would be support of the cabinet. Or am I missing something?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u328	I thought I said it, Mr. Chairman, but I'd like to do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u329	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u330	I have heard the rulers say it explicitly even in this debate. In fact, I have just said in my very short second term that I am very pleased with that. The motion asks that, in the discussions that are to take place next week, both on Sunday and in the second half of next week, we actively advocate that whatever is agreed should at least be subject to the UN Refugee Convention, European directives and the Law of the Sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u331	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u332	And if that is in line with the coalition agreement, then perhaps the Prime Minister will say that he will take over the motion. And then I'm very happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u333	Thank you. Mr Pechtold has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u334	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, too, I would like to thank both directors for the debate. I think it's good to discuss this for tops out too. That means there's more acceptance. I also see the support in the Chamber getting wider. GroenLinks no longer uses last year's language. It's been a year, but I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u335	Don't provoke!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u336	Mr President, I considered!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u337	Yes. Mr Van Ojik. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u338	I could have let it go, of course, but I can't get that over my heart anyway. I think I said two things very clearly. Last year, the leader of the Group of the Green Left also spoke on my behalf. And in this debate, I am talking about my own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u339	And that's the profit. It's not repeated, and that's important. Mr. Chairman. It's important. I also wish the Prime Minister good luck next Sunday. He knows that we are looking for European cooperation in the Netherlands. I note that there is also a need in the Chamber, even with my party, to focus on a number of things once in a while. Mr Asscher will shortly be tabling a motion on my behalf to tighten up some matters relating to international standards and procedures. But I also have a motion of my own, which actually deals with what the Secretary of State just said about the opportunity...
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u340	And now the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u341	... from an economic perspective. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that many migrants still risk their lives on boats in the Mediterranean in search of an economic perspective in Europe and that this is not the intention of the asylum procedure;]] [[Whereas existing forms of regular migration, such as study and work visas, can be better used to promote the return and readmission of asylum seekers who have been processed by countries of origin and to prevent irregular migration;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself at European level to promoting the return of processed asylum seekers by further exploring the possibility of legal migration routes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30573-142]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u342	Mr. Chairman. We need to be sure that we are helping people in need and at the same time protecting the welfare state that has been built up here. That is what this debate is about. In this debate we should not have easy talk; this debate should be about solutions. The Labour Party has put forward proposals for this, realizing that no one has the wisdom. I do believe that we must resolve this in Europe and that the absence of a humane solution is a disgrace to our time. Mr. Chairman. I have a motion for a resolution. The surprise is a bit off, which I would like to make on behalf of my colleague Mr Pechtold. If you look through the hairs of the eyes, she may look like the Chechen formula, but she is important, because there is an assignment and therefore support for an attempt that the cabinet should make in our opinion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that refugees who escape war and persecution should be protected;]] [[Whereas assistance, protection and opportunities can be provided in the interests of the refugee close to home and this requires investments and arrangements with safe third countries;]] [[calls on the Government to work at European level to reach agreements between the European Union and non-EU countries with a view to ensuring that all refugees are protected in accordance with relevant international standards, with careful asylum procedures and with respect for the principle of non-refoulement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30573-143]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u343	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u344	Thank you. Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u345	Mr. Chairman. Let me come back to the euro budget, the separate budget. The Prime Minister already pointed it out. Minister Hoekstra was present today at a meeting in Luxembourg with his European colleagues. There he mentioned Germany as the greatest ally, despite the Franco-German agreement on a separate budget for the euro area. "I love Germany," he said. I don't think there's a word of German in there. The French minister said it wasn't all or nothing, but Macron said on Tuesday that it was a historic breakthrough, and that's what Le Maire said this afternoon. Fortunately, Scholz was a little more careful. Can't the Minister give us an extra colour on this? Because if something is a 'historical breakthrough', at least in French eyes, then I think, despite the fact that we should not be small, I agree with the Prime Minister that Minister Hoekstra is very clear and he also has our full support for the fact that the dark clouds are getting closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u346	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u347	Mr. Chairman. We are going to see what the Member States are coming up with in the coming period. Everything is being suggested, but there is still little concrete. I asked the Prime Minister to refer it to the Chamber and respect democracy. The Prime Minister actually agreed with me, so I assume he can immediately embrace this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are plans for migration deals with countries in Africa;]] [[Whereas the European Union's support is fragile and important decisions should be discussed in detail in the Chamber;]] [[calls on the Government to submit migration agreements to the Chamber for agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30573-144]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u348	The other motion is actually in line with what the Prime Minister said: no handshake and no package deals between totally different subjects. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a political agreement between France and Germany on the future of the euro area, migration, defence and European taxation;]] [[whereas the Chamber and the Cabinet agree that cases should not be exchanged against each other, but should be assessed separately on their merits;]] [[calls on the Government not to accept the political agreement of Merkel and Macron,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30573-145]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u349	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In general, the Christian Union Group underlines the commitment of the cabinet, also for next Sunday. It is also good to see today that this line is supported not only by the coalition parties, but also by the Labour and GroenLinks Party in relation to the Mediterranean countries and the reception and selection there, but in combination with that resettlement. Mr. Chairman. Just as sharp as it is about the Secretary of State and the use of the Cabinet, because I had read well in the letter that the commitment is to achieve asylum procedures in the safe third countries rather than the UNHCR route. In fact, the Secretary of State mentioned three types of routes, but the government's commitment is to achieve those asylum procedures, isn't it? Maybe he can confirm that. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u350	Thank you. Mr Van Raan, on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u351	Oh, sorry, sorry, sorry!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u352	Did you have a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u353	I had a motion! Otherwise, I'll take it back with me. That's not gonna make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u354	Yes, I thought: Mr Voordewind in second term without a motion, that surprises me!
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u355	I only have one. I've got half a minute, I see. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion on that Albanian scenario. The Prime Minister's going that way anyway. I am sure that this will be about Albania again, so I will give you the messages. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Denmark and Austria have proposed to accommodate migrants in camps for selection outside the European Union, but on the European continent, where countries such as Albania and Kosovo are mentioned;]] [[Whereas the earning model of smugglers is maintained if migrants continue to cross the sea;]] [[believes that the number of migrant drownings in the Mediterranean should be reduced;]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to the establishment of these reception camps on the European continent,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30573-146]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u356	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No motions, but two striking conclusions as far as we are concerned. The first is about the discussion we had about the root causes that we ourselves cause. The Prime Minister replied that this is the greenest cabinet ever with regard to climate plans. The minister brought it up himself. It is striking that it only has half of half of the measures in practice, and therefore it does not have three-quarters, and it then says that the main causes of the climate problems, namely livestock farming and aviation, are outside the scope of this debate. That is, of course, very special. Anyway, it's a rhetorical exit, an emergency exit that the Prime Minister chooses here. Unlikely and unworthy of him, but so be it. I'm sure the insight will come very soon. Then there is the second striking conclusion. I must say that one of the richest regions of the world is trying to channel the flow of migrants into the poor regions. We have never been so rich, partly thanks to a lifestyle that is one of the causes of the refugee flows. In fact, you have to ask yourself where we get the guts, the courage to turn these problems that we cause mostly ourselves into unstable other regimes. It's very shabby and it's gonna be hard to keep up. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u357	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Fritsma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u358	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to use the second term to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that the Netherlands should be a sovereign country that is not dependent on the EU;]] [[calls on the Government to unilaterally close its own Dutch borders to all asylum seekers and all migrants from Islamic countries;]] [[and calls on the Prime Minister to send this message to all the Heads of State or Government present and to his future colleagues from the European Commission at the summit on migration next Sunday,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Fritsma, Mr Wilders and Mr Maeijer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30573-147]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u359	Thank you. The whole debate makes me feel like I'm looking at a change of perspective. On the one hand, you see parties, where Forum for Democracy is one of them, who think from the national interest and from what is important for the Netherlands to settle as quickly as possible. On the other hand, you see people who think from the institutional interest of the EU. I hear this from Mr Rutte, Mr Harbers and also from some of the parties here. They think from the existing institutions within the EU and believe that it should all be regulated through the EU. Of course, that is not possible, and that is why the current situation remains. I suspect, I fear, that this might have something to do with the double hat Mr Rutte is wearing because he has ambition for a job in the European Union. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Takes note of the ongoing rumors that Prime Minister Rutte is a candidate for a top European position;]] [[expresses the concern that due to personal career ambitions, the Prime Minister will not fully defend the Dutch interest in the very far-reaching negotiations that will be discussed at the forthcoming European Summit and discuss them as follows;]] [[calls on the Prime Minister to clarify his personal career ambitions and to make the following statement in that regard:]] [["During this cabinet period, I will not stand for a European top position or accept a candidacy. If I'm nominated, I won't accept such a top position. If I'm appointed, I won't accept the post.',]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30573-148]]
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u360	I can imagine that this question raises a great dilemma for Mr Baudet, because where would he prefer Prime Minister Rutte: here or in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u361	The most important thing is that we should not have a prime minister like Lubbers, who negotiated the euro and the Maastricht Treaty in the early 1990s, and who was actually already working on his ambitions to get a top position later. As a result, he sold out the Dutch interest and did not properly defend the guilder. That's what we need to avoid. So if Mr Rutte doesn't want to make this statement, if he doesn't want to indicate that he'll be right in front of the Netherlands for the next four years, then we'll have a confidence problem over the next three years. If he does not, then we must seriously distrust his negotiating position in Brussels. I hope that is not the case, and I hope that he will now say: I am in front of the Netherlands. It would be wonderful if we could finally see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u362	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u363	Mr. Chairman. Mr Baudet is increasingly becoming a very small employment office, although I have just heard the PVV say that I would also like to be President of the European Commission. I have no ambitions for both functions. I'm going on as Prime Minister, whether you like it or not. As things stand in the coalition, it is my hope that it is not an end in itself, but it is my hope that we will be able to do so in the coming years, until the elections of 2021. Then we'll be way past the European job distribution. The motion in part No. 148 I would therefore advise against. The motion in part No. 145 is the only other motion I will look at, because the other motions will deal with Mr Harbers. This motion by Mr Van Dijk is a bit complicated. It deals with the arrangements made at the meeting of President Macron and Chancellor Merkel. This is a political agreement that we must now reject as a whole. It's about everything: eurozone, migration, defence, everything. I think it can be resolved by raising the operative part and deleting the present operative part. The recital then becomes the operative part. Then it's gonna be: noting that there is a political agreement between France and Germany on the future of, et cetera; expresses her opinion that cases should not be exchanged against each other, but should be assessed separately on their merits. Then you scrape the operative part as it stands. If the motion is modified in this way, I say take over. But as it stands, it is a bizarre motion, because as a government we must find something of an agreement between two sovereign countries. The question is also what exactly is the agreement? They've been sitting together and a press release has been issued on a number of topics. So this is not true in three ways, but I think it can be solved this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u364	I appreciate the Prime Minister's consideration of my motion. Does he wish to co-sign the motion himself if I amend it as he proposes?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u365	Sure, fine, but we can't, because we have dualism.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u366	But there's a name partner. I'm gonna take a look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u367	Okay, thank you. I now turn to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u368	Thank you, Mr President. First, Mr Voordewind's question. He said we don't want asylum procedures at the UNHCR, do we? This is just looking into the future. It depends on which country you want to conclude a migration agreement with. For this reason, the government agreement states that an asylum procedure should preferably be open to the authorities of the host country itself. If it is not available, there must be an alternative. As an example, a UNHCR procedure is mentioned. So it's looking into the future, because of course it depends entirely on which country you're talking to and how that country set up its procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u369	The motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u370	In fact, it has already been said to the interrupting microphone that the motion in part No. 141 is an ultra-short summary of the coalition agreement. I would almost say: and how we all see it in international law has been further worked out on a page. But there's nothing against that. For that reason, I would like to make the motion in part No. 141 can even take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u371	I would like to take a look around to see if anyone has any objection to taking over Mr Van Ojik's motion on item No. 141.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u372	We're against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u373	Okay, then the motion will just be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u374	Then it's judgment room. What the motion in part No. In fact, I would like to say quite literally that I await the judgment of the Chamber. This was what was in the migration agenda. I've explained to you that I'm gonna continue my efforts. I attach importance to this, because an improved return policy is absolutely essential. For that, we have to keep all the options open. So I would even like to say literally: I await the following judgment of the Chamber on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u375	I understand the slight inconvenience with the Secretary of State, but I hear between the lines that it might also help him to promote return.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u376	I've already indicated in the first term that the thinking doesn't stop. We need to seriously consider everything that can improve return policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u377	What's the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u378	I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. The motion in part 143 is actually the same as for the motion in part 143. 141. This is the commitment of government policy. That's why I could take her over.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u379	I see that the Democracy Forum has objections to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u380	Then it's judgment room. The motion in part No. 144 calls on the government to submit migration agreements to the Chamber for agreement. I think that motion is too absolute. Once again, I assume that if there are any agreements, there will be a detailed debate here in the Chamber and that the Chamber will really be able to give its opinion to the cabinet. At the same time, we should not restrict ourselves, because we do not know what form migration agreements can be in. A form could also be for the European Commission to conclude such an agreement with a third country. And then it seems to me that it is much more up to the European Parliament to find something of that. So, since I find the motion so absolute, I advise her. For the motion in part No. The same is true of Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u381	The Prime Minister has already assessed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u382	I still have a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u383	On what motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u384	I have a question about dissuading the motion in part No. 144. And that is also a bit of a question to the author. The motion calls for migration agreements to be submitted for agreement. I assume that these are always agreements that the government makes, because you are the only one who can submit such things. So if it is, I don't think it's that crazy. 'Cause we're gonna do that. And I also like to see migration deals in which we are in the Netherlands as Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u385	But in that particular situation, I say to Mr Buma, a motion would be superfluous. Because if it is an agreement that the Netherlands concludes, then it will usually even take the form of a treaty that is submitted for ratification.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u386	Then the question to the author is what he means by the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u387	I want to avoid what happened at the time in the Turkey declaration. That was an accomplished fact. And the Chamber has never been able to agree to that. I do not want that to happen with a possible new agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u388	And then my previous answer comes up: because we do not always know in what form such an agreement is being concluded, and at the same time the Prime Minister pointed out that, on numerous occasions, the Chamber was also able to indicate what it thought of the agreements made with Turkey. So I'm deceiving the motion. I would have stayed with the motion in part no. 146 by Mr Voordewind. I think that's too absolute. The government is requested not to agree to the establishment of reception camps on the European continent. You can differ on whether or not that would have an astringent effect on smugglers and their boats. At the same time, I suspect that everyone is paying a smuggler to get inside the EU, not to stay outside the EU. But then I'm going to repeat what I said in the first term. There are plenty of ideas that haven't worked out. I do not think that this is the stage in which we should restrict ourselves in advance by categorically excluding a particular idea. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. It remains that it must always fulfil the guarantees that the Dutch cabinet has communicated with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u389	Then the motion to part No. 147.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u390	Finally, the Fritsma motion in part No. 147. It calls on the government to close the borders. I've already explained why I don't think that's a sensible idea, so I'm not going to recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u391	Thank you. That concludes this debate. We shall be voting on the motions tabled tonight. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Secretary of State and the Members of Parliament, at least... Mr Voordewind has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u392	I am prepared to hold on to my motion if the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister are prepared to at least keep the signal in mind when they enter the negotiations, that the objective must be to counter those boats and drownings and that this is the starting point of policy. Then Albania won't help. If they keep that in mind and want to take it with them, I'll hold the motion and see how it goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u393	Then I would like an answer from the microphone, for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u394	For the Acts: that is the primary goal. The idea of return is so unexploited, but we'll see about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2018-06-21-tweedekamer-8.u395	At the request of Mr Voordewind, I propose his motion (30573, No. 146). That is what is decided.
